ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u1	Minister, in July 2016, I asked you in committee about the Tournai II Agreements. I asked you if you had been able to discuss with your French counterpart, Jean-Marc Ayrault, the possibilities of improving these agreements to respond to the reality on the ground that our police officers are facing. Indeed, I believe that the means allocated to Belgian and French police officers in the fight against certain offences, in particular petty crime - which is their daily share in the cross-border area - should be further developed. You explained in your response that a working group was preparing an initial assessment of the implementation of these agreements. Could you, minister, tell me if the evaluation has been finalized? If so, what does it reveal? What conclusions can you draw from this? Finally, on the Belgian side, will any real means be mobilised to increase the number of mixed patrols at the Franco-Belgian border?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u2	Mr Delannois, in the framework of the Tournai II Agreements, the Franco-Belgian Strategic Committee endorsed, at its last meeting, decisions to strengthen cooperation between the two countries. In concrete terms, it has been agreed to establish, by analogy with the system which has already entered into force with the Netherlands, a structured local consultation between neighbours, covering the Franco-Belgian border region. In the coming months, the geographical areas of this consultation will be jointly defined. A new supra-local operational forum will serve as a link between neighbouring countries' dialogue and the Strategic Committee. The new dialogue between neighbouring countries is expected to be operational by the next meeting of the Strategic Committee, which is likely to take place in June. The Treaty of Tournai II therefore seems to be quite well entered into. A working group shall, as you have recalled, determine the provisions of that text, for which additional implementing agreements should be provided, or whether some of them may require a common interpretation to be confirmed at central level. This working group is composed of police officers and lawyers from both countries. On the basis of the results of its analysis, additional joint training should be organised. I, of course, remain attentive to the issue of cross-border crime, while respecting in this area the prerogatives of the Minister of the Interior in both national and international matters. For more details on the practical aspects, you are obviously free to question him. In any case, we shall ensure that the dialogue between neighbours takes place normally and at the most sustained rate possible. As I have told you, there will be a new consultation of the strategic committee, normally scheduled for June. On the operational level, several advances have already been made, about which the Minister of the Interior may be able to give you more details.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. We look forward to this meeting in June. Which is really embarrassing in cross-border areas... there were the agreements of Tournai. Without being mean, it is often a question of "grandma" between two great countries. But what is really very important is precisely the small facts that still bother many people on both sides of the border. I thank you, in any case, for paying attention to the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u4	Madam President, Minister, South Africa has been a full democracy and a friendly country since 1994. Nevertheless, we must note some worrying developments in that country. In this way, the crime of violence is increasing and is a huge threat to the whole of the country. One category of these acts of violence is the so-called platter attack and platter killing, directed against the African farmers' community. These are mainly, but not exclusively, directed against African farmers. They are robberies and murders in which, on those farms, men, women, adults, children, baby babies, elders are tortured in the most horrific way by non-white murder squaddies before eventually being murdered. The Farmers' Community in South Africa is confronted with this almost daily. These horrific crimes not only have an effect, like any murder, for the victims' neighbors, but also cause a domino effect. Agriculture is still very important in South Africa and often it is about the loss of owners, farm managers, which in turn is the cause of unemployment and the destruction of many workers and their families. It is a major problem and figures are available from various sources in connection with this murder. 70% of the people killed on the farms were owners. There are crime statistics from South African police with figures from 1994 to 2007 and they are all rising. I will not list them all here, but it is striking that after 2007, the South African police force, the SAPD, has not made any separate figures on the rampage attack and murder. A number of organisations take on this role, including the civil rights organisation AfriForum and the agricultural organisation Transvaal Agricultural Union. They issued reports in 2015 and 2016 which show that 2015 was a record year on plaasattandle. In that year there were almost every day, 318, during which 64 farmers and their workers lost their lives. In that 318 plaster attack, 570 farmers and their families, workers and casual guests were the victims. In 40 cases, 65 workers were immediate victims. A report by the UN Office for Drugs and Crime provides an average murder rate for South Africa of 31 out of 100 000 for 2012. In addition, the figures of the AgriSA agricultural organization show that the murder rate for farmers in South Africa is on average 313 out of 100 000. Interpol's remark that farming in South Africa is the most dangerous profession in the world speaks volumes. Of course, the violence crime, such as the rampage against the African Farmers' Community, has a negative effect on agricultural production and in the long term also on food security in South Africa. Is nothing happening in that country? Fortunately, in recent years, there has been a turnaround. The police say they'll make priority work of the murder. Unfortunately, we note that it is still awaiting concrete results, even if there is a breakthrough and a change of attitude. The country itself says it wants to deal with things, but this is mainly due to a number of reports that have shown how bad the situation is. In August 2015, the important conclusion of a 110-page report by the South African Human Rights Commission was that not only white farmers are exclusively endorsed, but that this violence is partly indicative of racial hatred. This is not insignificant in a South African context. Minister, are you aware of the problem? I suppose so, because there are initiatives not only in South Africa to draw attention to them, but also abroad. Years ago, even the Pope was written. Many countries have responded positively to a call from the United Nations Forum on Minority Issues to address the problem and to act against it, including Germany, the Netherlands, Namibia and Hungary. Belgium has so far failed, hence my questions. Minister, should Belgium not join the various European countries that announce that they want to bring to the attention of the South African Government the rights of minorities in South Africa and the question of the massacre itself? On the website of Foreign Affairs, we read: South Africa is an important partner for Belgium, working constructively in the search for peace, security and democracy in Africa. In economic terms, South Africa is Belgium's main trading partner in Sub-Saharan Africa. The activities cover a wide range of sectors and businesses, of which the port, diamond and energy sectors are among the most important. South Africa is also part of the partner countries of Belgian development cooperation. My logical question, then, is whether you would like to urge the South African Government itself that peace and security in its own country are at least as important as in the neighbouring countries. Will you take specific initiatives in the framework of external trade and development cooperation to encourage the South African Government to work effectively towards a safe agricultural environment? Will you take initiatives to hear the relevant civil rights initiatives in South Africa and/or the Human Rights Commission on their findings on the problem of violence against farmers in South Africa? Do you think it is appropriate to call on the South African Government to ensure that land reforms are also carried out in a dignified, fair and just manner, taking into account historically grown situations, in which all agricultural groups, including African farmers, can continue to play a role?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Pas, unfortunately the problem of the massacre is one of the numerous forms of violence facing South Africa. Independent research shows that its causes are of different nature and cannot be reduced to a matter of race or colour. It is often a question of violence, of the nature of the environment, such as the less close presence of the police, or of a conflict between the employer and the employee. Of course, I believe that this violence, like all other forms of violence, should be put to an end. Personal security is one of the basic rights of every citizen who must be able to call on the government to do so. I believe that the necessary legal framework exists in South Africa. Given the very high level of violence, this is a huge challenge for the South African government. I therefore welcome the reversal in police policy, in particular the priority treatment that would have been given to this form of violence since last year, as well as the formal agreement concluded in May 2016 between the South African police and the agricultural organisation. The figures for the past year indicate a stabilisation, which does not make the phenomenon any less objectionable. However, AfriForum has recently expressed a positive opinion on the commitment and cooperation with South African police to give this form of violence the necessary attention through an integrated approach, following the reduction in the number of acts of violence during the end of the year. On the sensitive issue of land ownership, too, the government has always been guided by the principles of legality and the rule of law. Bilateral contacts are not limited to regional peace and security issues. Similar domestic issues may also be raised. In the context of the common European foreign policy, regular consultations with the European countries and postal heads on the ground on the political dialogue with South Africa are taking place, an issue which deserves particular attention. In addition, there is a human rights dialogue between both sides, which allows for a more in-depth discussion of such a subject. I am prepared to put the need for such a subject on the agenda once again. Civil society in South Africa is free to inform and raise awareness of the developments in this topic in Belgium. The Belgian Embassy in Pretoria is a privileged observer and a point of contact in this area. We are prepared to be in touch with all representatives of civil society. There are many contacts between our embassies, NGOs and many other human rights partners. As regards possible Belgian initiatives in the framework of Development Cooperation or Foreign Trade, I would ask you to address your question to my three colleagues responsible for these two policy areas, namely the Minister for Development Cooperation, as well as the Prime Minister responsible for Foreign Trade and the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade. We are prepared to contact civil society on the ground and to work on this issue through bilateral contacts and through dialogue between the European Union and the authorities in South Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You share the concern and I take note of your willingness to discuss it with your many contacts. The problem is very big. If I may give another figure, in 1994, there were 84 000 commercial farmers in South Africa. The latest official figures I have obtained date back six years, but at that time there were only 30 000. The massacre affects not only the farms, but also the local economy, the rural villages which depend to a large extent on the survival of agriculture. About 40% of the population of South Africa, more than half of the provinces there, depend on agriculture. You say the figures stabilised in 2016. Actually, that's not good news, because 2015 was already a record year on the number of murders. I cannot get the impression that the South African Government is making very little haste to put a turn on the ground. I note that the Freedom Front Plus Party has taken ten years to get the ANC-speech sentence "Kill the Boer kill the farmer" condemned and banned by law as a hate speech. The ANC continued to defend that slogan until the last moment. There are still a number of things that show that there is little rush to take decisive action. Hence my question to be a little more proactive from abroad and to set it up in all international fora within the European Union and, above all, with the South African Government itself. In addition to recommending to you the very moving film Sad ground, on this issue, which came out last year, I will also table a motion of recommendation to encourage you to actually raise the issue in international fora and to address trade and development cooperation issues, in order to increase the pressure on the South African Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u7	The Minister wishes to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u8	This issue is already on the agenda of various fora. We are always prepared to ask a government not to use violence against its citizens. We also ask the Syrian Government, for example, not to use violence against the citizens themselves. Mrs Pas, perhaps at the next committee meeting you will interperate me again, this time to ask the Syrian Government not to use force against the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u9	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - having regard to the 1 600 to 2 000 'plaas murder' committed in thousands of 'plaas attack' in South Africa since 1990; - having regard to the murder rate of 313 out of 100 000 for the farmers in 2010, while generally 31 out of 100 000 in 2012; - whereas there were 85 000 registered commercial farmers in South Africa in 1994 and only 30 000 registered commercial farmers in 2010; - whereas such attacks and murders mainly target one population in South Africa, namely the white and, more specifically, the African farmers' community; - in view of the great fear and uncertainty that has arisen among the farming population and in particular the African farmers' community and its non-white staff; - having regard to the adverse effects of this fear psychosis on the profitable production of agricultural products and food security in South Africa, - in view of the growing unemployment resulting from the removal and emigrate of many farmers; - having regard to the fact that 40% of the South African population and more than half of the provinces are primarily dependent on agriculture; - having regard to the pressure from democratic opposition parties to persuade the government to take effective action against these attacks and murders; - gelet op de aanbevelingen van het Report of the SAHRC National Investigative Hearing to 'Safety and Security challenges in farming communities – 15 & 16 September 2014 and 6 October 2014; - having regard to the agreement of early May 2016 between the South African Police Office (SAPD) and the civil rights movement AfriForum to finally address the problem of the "plaas murder," with concerns that it will only remain with good intentions; - having regard to the submission by AfriForum, TLU SA and VF+ of issues concerning "plaas murder" to the United Nations Forum on Minority Affairs, - having regard to the acceptance in Rome at the end of May 2010 of a motion condemning the "plaas murder" as a serious human rights violation by the UNPO General Congress (Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organisation); - whereas racism in all its forms must also be rejected as anti-white racism; - whereas our government has many opportunities to denounce these atrocities at international level; - considering that our government is always committed to human rights and discrimination and is often leading the way; - whereas land reforms in South Africa are much slower than anticipated, thus increasing uncertainty in the African farmers' community; - having regard to the fact that black communities also demand that the violence against farmers, which also harms their communities, be stopped; asks the government 1. take initiatives to exert pressure on the South African Government as soon as possible and formally through the European Council of Foreign Ministers in order to effectively combat the "plaas murder" and not to ignore good intentions; 2. call directly on the South African Government to put an immediate end to the "plaas murder" under penalty of the breaking of bilateral agreements; 3. urge the South African Government to take seriously the findings of the South African Human Rights Commission, the rulings of the Supreme Court in Pretoria and the statement of the Head of Police Department and to follow results-oriented; 4. to raise the issue in the United Nations through the Belgian mandate and to demand an international monitoring committee which makes concrete proposals in the very short term to reduce violence; 5. propose within the European Union to review or freeze all possible treaties with South Africa at least as long as the problem of the "plaas murder" has not been resolved or is at least adequately addressed; 6. denounce, in all international fora and in all international representations and institutions, unacceptable anti-white racism on the grounds that it is as unacceptable as anti-black racism and racism without doubt; 7. call on the South African Government to ensure that land reforms are conducted in a dignified, fair and just manner, taking account of historically grown situations, and that they require not only priority attention, but also unabated progress in which all groups active in agriculture, including African farmers, can continue to play a role." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - having regard to the 1 600 to 2 000 "plaasmoorde" perpetrated in thousands of attacks on farms ("plaasaanvalle") in South Africa since 1990; - Given the homicide rate of 313 per 100,000 in 2010 for the peasant population, while the overall average is 31 per 100,000 in South Africa in 2012; - Considering that in South Africa there were still 85 000 registered farmers carrying on business in 1994 and that they were only 30 000 in 2010; - Considering that these attacks and murders mainly target a group of the South African population, namely the white community, and more specifically the african peasant community; - in view of the great anguish and uncertainty among farmers, in particular the Afrikaner peasant community and its non-white collaborators; - in view of the negative effects of this psychosis on the commercial production of agricultural products and on food security in South Africa; - in view of the rise in unemployment resulting from the cessation of activities and emigration of many farmers; - Considering that 40% of the population of South Africa and more than half of the provinces are also fundamentally dependent on agriculture; - in view of the pressure exerted by the opposition's democratic parties on the government to take effective action against these attacks and assassinations; - vu les recommandations du Report of the SAHRC National Investigative Hearing to Safety and Security challenges in farming communities – les 15 & 16 septembre 2014 et 6 octobre 2014; - having regard to the agreement reached at the beginning of May 2016 between the South African police services and the organisation for the defence of civil rights AfriForum with the aim of finally tackling the problem of the "plaasmoorde", which nevertheless leaves the fear that it will be limited to good intentions; - having regard to the presentation by AfriForum, TLU SA and VF+ of priorities concerning "plaasmoorde" before the United Nations Minority Forum; - having regard to the adoption in Rome at the end of May 2010 of a motion in which the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organisation (UNPO) General Congress condemns the "plaasmoorde" as a serious violation of human rights; - Whereas racism in all its forms, including racism against whites, should be rejected; - Considering that our Government has many possibilities to denounce these atrocities on the international stage; - Considering that our Government is still committed to and most often takes the initiative in the field of human rights and discrimination; - Whereas agrarian reforms in South Africa are much slower than expected, which only increases the uncertainty among the african farmers; - Considering that the black communities also demand that the violence against farmers, which also harms their own communities, cease, asks the government 1. to take initiatives in order to put pressure on the South African Government, through the Council of European Ministers for Foreign Affairs, to fight effectively against the "plaasmoords" as soon as possible and not to stick to good intentions; 2. to insist directly on the South African Government to put an end to the "plaasmoorde" without delay, on pain of breaking bilateral agreements; 3. To urge the South African Government to take seriously and translate into results the findings of the South African Commission for Human Rights, the judgments of the Supreme Court of Pretoria and the statement of the Chief of Police; 4. raise the issue through the Belgian mandate at the United Nations and require the establishment of an international observation commission to formulate proposals to curb violence in a very short period of time; 5. propose that the European Union review or, at the very least, freeze all possible agreements with South Africa until the problem of the "plaasmoorde" has been resolved or at least effectively combated; 6. To denounce in all international forums and in all international representations and organizations the inacceptable anti-white racism, knowing that it is as unacceptable as anti-black racism and that any form of racism, whatever it may be; 7. to plead with the South African government for meaningful, honest and equitable agrarian reforms, taking into account the historical context, and to make it clear that not only do they require priority attention, but also that they must be pursued without reservation and that all groups active in agriculture, including the african farmers, must be able to play a role in this process." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Annemie Turtelboom and Els Van Hoof and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Richard Miller. A simple motion was tabled by Annemie Turtelboom, Els Van Hoof and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Richard Miller. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u10	Madam President, thank you. Mr Minister, I have already asked you a few years ago about the challenge to the European Court of Human Rights, which guarantees our fundamental rights. In these troubled times, the criticism of him increases. Indeed, "the activism of the Court" is seen by more and more States as an increasing interference in their normative activity. This sometimes goes far enough as the threats of Mr. Fillon, if elected, to get his country out of the Court. More explicitly, François Fillon would like to reform the Court of Human Rights so that it can no longer intervene on certain subjects which it describes as fundamental to our societies. This "anti-ECHR" trend is also spreading among many British elected officials, notably after the Court condemned London on the question of prisoners' right to vote, prohibited by British law. Other States, such as Poland or Russia, often also challenge the validity of the Court's decisions and sometimes even its existence. They are therefore reluctant to apply the judgments. All those States considered that the Court was an obstacle to national sovereignty. Unless a state ignores a judgment, there are no real sanctions. Minister, what is your view of this trend? An amendment to the European Convention on Human Rights would require the agreement and signature of the 47 states, which is reassuring. However, the concern is there, have you ever been able to address this critical situation with your European counterparts and what position do you stand for? This jurisdiction is supranational. However, if the judgments are not respected, there are no real sanctions. The only sanction is the final sanction of exclusion, which does not leave room for dialogue and, moreover, has not yet happened. However, many difficulties are encountered in the case of massive violations of human rights. Are any initiatives envisaged to put in place certain sanctions for violations of rights? Are there any initiatives in the Court to enforce the orders? What are the new avenues envisaged in order to best preserve the proper functioning of this essential institution on our continent and its freedom of action in the defence of human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u11	Mevrouw de voorzitster, Mr Blanchart, as you know, Belgium has made a strong commitment to strengthening the actions of the Council of Europe, in particular on the occasion of our chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers between November 2014 and May 2015. In this context, we negotiated the Brussels Declaration, endorsed by the Ministers responsible for compliance with the Convention at a high-level conference on the implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights, a shared responsibility. The meeting was held in Brussels in March 2015. This statement, which is to be placed in the wider context of the reform of the Court, proposes, inter alia, ways of remedying the problem of the enforcement of judgments by focusing on the responsibility of States, in their national capacity, but also in the general follow-up to judgments. I myself had the opportunity to meet with the President and the head of the Court during our presidency. With respect to the substantive analysis of the trend to which you refer, I can only confirm that it is well ahead of Mr. Fillon's statements. It was precisely this dynamic which led Belgium to take the initiative of the Brussels Conference and the declaration of the same name, ahead of our presidency. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the important work done by the relevant Ministry of Justice on this occasion. As far as the future is concerned, I can confirm that our commitment remains the same and that we will continue to take our responsibilities to heart, both with regard to the implementation of the judgments which concern us – and which are primarily within the competence of my colleague from Justice – and with regard to the follow-up by the Committee of Ministers of judgments in all Member States. This is a point that we regularly defend alongside a majority of the member states of the Council of Europe, which take this shared responsibility very much at heart. Nevertheless, I should like to point out that, notwithstanding these trends, the vast majority of judgments are executed without difficulty and provide an opportunity for regular peer-to-peer monitoring and dialogue before the Committee of Ministers. I do not agree with your analysis that, in the event of failure to comply with a judgment of the Court, no sanction is provided for outside of an exclusion and that, in this respect, no dialogue is possible. Article 46, § 4 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides that, where the Committee of Ministers considers that a high contracting party refuses to comply with a final judgment in a dispute to which it is a party, it may, after giving notice to that party and by a decision taken by a two-thirds majority of the representatives entitled to sit on the committee, refer the matter of compliance to the Court by that party. That's his obligation. The combined provisions of Article 46(4) of the Convention and Rule 11(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee of Ministers for the Supervision of the Enforcement of Judgments and of the Terms of Amicable Settlement require that the action for failure to fulfil obligations must, in view of its exceptional nature, be subject to a two-stage procedure, i.e. the notice of the State concerned by the Committee of Ministers, followed by a decision of the Committee of Ministers to implement the action for failure to fulfil obligations. Each of these stages provides for several acts to be taken, subject to qualified majorities. The procedure provides for a staking of these steps over time, which is explicitly planned to leave room for dialogue. Such a procedure, which I agree with you, is exceptional, has recently been launched as part of the monitoring of the implementation of the Court's final judgment in the case between Mr Ilgar Mammadov and Azerbaijan. I had mentioned this case as Chairman of the Committee of Ministers during a visit to Azerbaijan to President Aliev. I believe that we must be able to continue the work, as was done in the Brussels Declaration, on the specific responsibility of the States of the Contracting Parties. Procedures exist, they may still be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u12	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for these clarifications. Indeed, the procedure exists and it is still a little cumbersome. If we could look at an improvement, which would make it a little easier, it would not be a bad thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u13	Madam President, Minister, following a meeting of the European Commission on 21 December, Poland would seem to lose its right to vote in the European Council if it does not propose a solution to the current constitutional crisis and the drifts of its government. The European Commission could start the procedure if the dialogue on amendments to the national constitution did not lead to nothing. Indeed, the situation has not improved, on the contrary. Recently, we have seen new legislation adopted by the Polish Parliament to restrict public gatherings and to restrict the work of the parliamentary press, measures which are therefore still aimed at reducing freedom of expression and thus still undermine European values. But there are also the facts that have been criticized by the Polish government for a year that have not been resolved, as well as other issues that have arisen and that threaten the fundamental values of the EU as well. Although you have rejected our text on the situation in Poland, I would like once again, Mr Minister, to ask you the following few questions. What is the record of the situation in Poland since these last facts? What is the position of Belgian diplomacy in this context and its attitude in European forums? What do you think will happen if the Commission's recommendations are again ignored by Poland?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u14	Mr Blanchart, the political climate in Poland has been marked by an alternation of controversies and compromises. The files you cited as well as the discussion on fiscal validity 2017 have created a deadlock between the opposition and the government majority. On 16 December 2016, part of the opposition even occupied the Chamber of the Sejm (lower house of the Polish Parliament). This occupation was suspended on January 12, 2017 following the Prime Minister's decision to lift media restrictions on access to parliamentary debate. Nevertheless, the Polish government intends to continue its reform package, in particular that of the justice system, the outline of which was presented on 23 January 2017: to further strengthen the disciplinary framework of judges, to reform the National Council of the Judiciary, of which only the parliament could elect members, to consolidate the power of the managers of the courts responsible for administrative and financial management to the detriment of the judges and presidents of the courts. At the same time, there is still uncertainty about plans to reform the media. With regard to the reform of the Constitutional Court, the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a communiqué on 22 December 2016 to reaffirm its willingness to dialogue with the European Commission while believing that in its view this reform is in line with European standards. Since the beginning of the year, the hearings of the Constitutional Court have been postponed sine die because of two polemics. The court was brought before the Minister of Justice in his capacity as Attorney General to rule on the legality of the 2010 election of three of its judges. In addition, a number of judges refused to take a decision, thereby delaying certain cases. The situation of the rule of law in Poland is the subject of a procedure based on a communication from the European Commission with a view to strengthening the rule of law in the European Union. The process consists of three stages: an assessment of the situation by the Commission, a recommendation by the Commission and a follow-up to the recommendation, which, failing a satisfactory response, could actually lead the Commission to operate the mechanism provided for in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union. At the moment, we are in the second stage. In July 2016, the Commission sent a recommendation to Poland. At the end of December, the Commission decided to send Poland a further recommendation. Poland can react before the end of February. The Commission recommends that Poland ensure that the Constitutional Court can urgently examine the constitutionality of the Law on the Status of Judges, the Law on Organization and Procedures and the Implementing Law. The Commission also emphasises the need for fair cooperation between the various public institutions in matters relating to the rule of law. The Commission has expressed its readiness to continue a constructive dialogue with the Polish Government. This procedure is specific to the Commission. Belgium therefore does not have to give its opinion at this stage. However, I believe that the Commission, acting in this way, would only act as guardian of the Treaties. I have told you this from the beginning; that is why we want to see this European procedure implemented first, rather than seeing procedures initiated or steps taken in the various national parliaments. In February 2016, I proposed that, within the framework of the General Affairs Council, a periodic assessment of respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights in all the Member States of the Union be carried out. At my request, the SPF Foreign Affairs organised a seminar in Brussels in July 2016, which was followed by a ministerial meeting in Rome on 3 October. Twelve Member States have signed the "Friends of the Rule of Law dialogue" document.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u15	At the General Affairs Council on 15 November, there was an exchange of views on the regular dialogue on the rule of law that has existed in the Council for the past two years. It showed the commitment of the Member States to maintain respect for the rule of law and to improve the organisation of dialogue. The Slovak Presidency referred in its report to the possibility of installing a periodic evaluation. I recalled, on behalf of Belgium, that while respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights is an element in the European Union's discussions with partner States, there is no instrument for the objective evaluation of the rule of law in the Member States, while we use precise and detailed criteria for examining their economic situation. We also have the Copenhagen criteria, but only before the accession of the candidate countries. I have indicated that Belgium hopes that progress can be made gradually towards better preparation and follow-up of the dialogue, to be re-evaluated if possible before 2019, and a move to a genuine periodic political review, that we finally have the same kind of control over the political criteria and hence the values of the control which is organised on the budgetary situation in accordance with the Stability Pact and the Maastricht Treaty. I would just like to add that we also had, after the Foreign Affairs Council and before the General Affairs Council on Monday evening, a meeting between a number of countries supporting the process – we were twelve in Rome and one or two more countries at Monday's meeting – and a delegation from the European Parliament which also initiated the idea of a procedure for the rule of law. I think that when the Polish case comes back on the table, we will have to decide. Similarly, the transition to a genuine periodic review would further strengthen the European Union's capacity for action, while respecting values. There is no reason why once a Member State becomes a member of the Union, the situation of respect for the rule of law is no longer dealt with in such detail, even though it is done to ensure that the budgetary situation is respected. I maintain that it is necessary to do so for the budget, but we must add the rule of law approach. For the rest, I assure you, we will follow very closely the procedure initiated by the Commission and we will have to take an attitude when it comes to the Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. Your approach is very commendable, and it is perhaps the only way in which changes can take place in Poland at the present time. Indeed, the Polish Government promises a great deal and believes that progress is sufficient, but in fact decisions which are not in accordance with the rule of law, as we hear, are taken. We cannot compromise within the framework of the rule of law. It must be respected in its entirety. Europe cannot remain silent on this issue. I hope that your approach will succeed and that changes will take place in Poland and in all the countries we are reviewing. However, if the situation does not change, our government will have to assume its responsibilities and clearly invite the Polish government to change course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u17	Just a little question in between. Minister, until what time can you stay in this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u18	At least until 6:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u20	Madam President, when we read their titles, there is not much correlation between my colleague Flahaux's question and mine, except that they are both about Tunisia. I imagine the minister will have subdivided the answers. My question specifically concerns the travel notice to Tunisia. At the plenary session on 8 December 2016, the Prime Minister said, in response to a question from my colleague Dallemagne concerning the travel notice on Tunisia, I quote: "I am very sensitive to the appeal sent by the Tunisian side and I made a commitment to re-evaluate the arrangements that have been decided. There is a travel notice reserved for the moment but you know the procedure. This is a procedure at the start of the foreign affairs administration, at the departure of the diplomatic post. In consultation with Minister Reynders, we considered it necessary to request a further assessment from the MACO, which is currently under way. We wish to have this new assessment as soon as possible. And, indeed, I do not exclude, on the basis of this new evaluation, - but of course I want to be careful - that we can change the evaluation." Therefore, Minister, two months after the Prime Minister's reply, I come back to you to find out what is happening with this reassessment of the travel notice for Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u21	Mr Flahaux has the floor to put his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u23	Will you ask your question separately?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u24	That will be easier, Madam President. Mrs Grovonius, I may disappoint you, but this is a matter of weeks. As announced by the Prime Minister in his reply of 8 December, the opinion of the OCAM was sought, as well as that of our embassy in Tunisia, which represents us in the working group in Tunis entitled "G7+6", which brings together Tunisia's main partners in the fight against terrorism. We are in the process of receiving the various opinions. The aim is to arrive at an accuracy of the travel notice in the coming weeks. I believe that this will still be the course of this month, depending on what will come to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u25	Thank you, Minister. We will therefore wait and follow the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u26	Like the conveyors!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u27	Deputy Prime Minister, I will not have the opportunity to ask you about Brexit, since my colleague Mrs Jadin has asked for the postponement of her question, with which I am joined. That will therefore be my only question today. Belgium's interest in Tunisia has been rooted in the history of Belgium since its beginnings, with the signing of the Treaty of Friendship between the two countries in 1839. Belgium has always given concrete support to Tunisian socio-economic development, at conferences such as that held in Tunis in September 2014, where EU macro-financial assistance for Tunisia's economic recovery has been decided or even by draft resolutions submitted in this direction by several parliamentarians. This policy was also the focus of attention in your 2015 political note. The economic damage caused by the attacks at the Bardo Museum, and then in a tourist complex, exacerbated the difficulties facing Tunisia, with 450 million euros in losses in 2015. From that time on, our country, through Prime Minister Charles Michel, reaffirmed its intention to strengthen this policy of economic exchange and support for Tunisian economic development, within the framework of cooperation between the European States, including France, Germany, Great Britain and Belgium, and the granting of €116 million in assistance for the development of a sustainable economy. The Belgian Technical Cooperation has put in place concrete arrangements for aid to Tunisia. Today, Tunisia finds itself, following an exceptional harvest – which in itself is positive – in a situation of overproduction of oranges with more than 550 000 tonnes produced, compared with 400,000 usually. The very favourable weather, the improvement of cropping patterns, the increase of one third of the area planted over the last ten years, are likely, due to the lack of substantial export opportunities, to lead to the destruction of almost half of the crop. As a result, emergency measures have already been taken. France has increased its imports of so-called Maltese oranges, but it is necessary for Tunisia to open up to new markets. Alternative markets are for many already the subject of competition between Egyptian and Turkish productions in terms of Russia, for example. In Europe, oranges come mainly from Spain and South Africa. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, among the many issues that you have to deal with at the level of Belgium and Europe, has this question of aid for the sale of Tunisian oranges ever been addressed? As for Belgium – and this is a big deal, to please my colleague from Thuin –, the carnival season, where our Gilles generously offer oranges, can it be a way to increase the amount of oranges from Tunisia without destabilizing the orange import and marketing industry? More seriously, in this winter period, is it possible to supply Belgian and European food banks with oranges, rich in vitamins, to help the poorest? Is it possible, on the other hand, to work on the manufacture of derived products, such as marmalade and candied fruit, allowing for the preservation of these fruits over time? How can we help our Tunisian friends to sell their orange production through politically, economically and environmentally beneficial action, avoiding the destruction of fruit? Moreover, Belgium's ambassador to Tunisia told us in autumn 2015 that, since the attacks, almost no ships stopped in Tunis to land in Malta. The economic consequences are obviously damaging. Minister, thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u28	Mr Flahaux, I have drawn the attention of my services to the problem you raise with regard to the export of Tunisian oranges. This issue has not yet been the subject of proposals, whether bilateral or within the European Union. On the other hand, other initiatives have been taken to support economic development and democratic transition in Tunisia, despite the difficult political and security environment we are experiencing. Together with its European partners, Belgium has thus mandated the Commission in 2011 to negotiate a comprehensive free trade agreement with Tunisia. Negotiations began in October 2015. They are based on an asymmetrical and assistance approach, in order to take account of the different level of development. As a result of the Sousse attack in June 2015, the European Union also adopted emergency and support measures in the form of autonomous trade arrangements increasing imports of untreated olive oil originating in Tunisia into the European Union on the basis of a zero-duty tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes for the calendar years 2016 and 2017. These measures are in addition to a financial envelope of up to EUR 300 million in 2017, which represents a substantial increase in EU aid to Tunisia over the last two years, particularly in the areas of cooperation, trade, industry, education, research and the fight against terrorism. The Commission and the European Union's external action services finally published last September a joint communication entitled "Strengthening European Union support for Tunisia", whose approach I welcomed with my European counterparts at the Foreign Affairs Council last October. In relation to your specific question, I would point out that one of the proposals for action in this communication is to improve Tunisian sanitary and phytosanitary capacities in order to increase the possibility for Tunisian agricultural products to be exported to the European market. Now, I will simply draw your attention to the fact that you have cited several products that probably do not pose problems for Belgian producers, but other players in the European Union are having a little more difficulty opening up their markets. We can understand that, as if we were talking about products particularly developed in Belgium, we would make the same remarks. I would like to point out that, despite this, olive oil, for example, has really been an important opening. This is not easy for some of the Union's partners. On oranges, I really asked for a look at what bilateral approaches are possible, as well as at European level. If we can have an answer before the carnival begins, we will not fail to implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that Tunisia is dear to us in many ways, because of our ties but also, as we saw after the Berlin attack, it was indeed a Tunisian. We know how porous the border is between Libya and Tunisia. Everything we can do for Tunisia will help to avoid other less desirable things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u30	Minister, according to the newspaper Knack, it would appear that the Diyanet and the Turkish mosques would inform the Turkish authorities, at their request, of the functioning and organisation of associations linked to the Gülen movement in Belgium. The Diyanet had already had the opportunity to deny this accusation. However, a report consulted by Knack, which appears to have left Belgium on 26 September, reveals that information has indeed been sent to the Directorate of Religious Affairs in Ankara. It also appears that the same information was requested in 28 countries. Given the current context, this information can be described as disturbing. The purges carried out by the AKP government since the aborted coup on 15 July can cause us to fear that anyone who is supposedly closely or by far linked to the Gülen network will be considered "terrorist" by the Erdogan government. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions: have our diplomatic services contacted the Turkish authorities to ask them about this information? Is there a coordinated response at European level to this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u31	Madam Chair, Mr. Blanchart, thank you for asking this question, which relates to a matter primarily within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. And that is why we have instructed our embassy in Ankara, in close coordination with the Minister of Justice. The purpose of this instruction is to ask our embassy to take steps to obtain information on the activities carried out by the Diyanet in Belgium and to convey our concerns which are also yours in the context you mentioned. During this process, the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs assured our Ambassador that, on the one hand, the agents of the Diyanet abroad have the sole function and purpose of meeting the religious needs of the communities under their charge and that it is not within their remit to mingle with political questions. On the other hand, he also mentioned that the Turkish side is sensitive to the dialogue with Belgium and to our concern to avoid any tension between members of the Belgian-Turkish community, regardless of their convictions. I can also add that, in my contacts with my Turkish Foreign Affairs colleague on-line in recent weeks, we have again agreed to hold a trilateral meeting in Brussels this time, i.e. Foreign Affairs, Justice and Home Affairs Ministers, as we held last time in Ankara. We will therefore of course return to this concern at this trilateral meeting, recalling that the concern about the Diyanet and the activity in our mosques is more of the contact that the two Ministers of Justice will have. But we will continue to monitor this situation closely, including through our embassy. As far as the European level is concerned, there has been no coordinated response at European Union level but exchanges of information between partner countries concerned with this issue, within the framework of regular contacts between Belgian administrations and their counterparts. I myself have had the opportunity to tell several colleagues from neighbouring countries about this, because our concern is, in particular, the demand not to import into Belgium or not to export from Turkey to a number of other States, the conflicts or debates that may take place internally, within the country for the time being. That is true of several aspects of the debates that are taking place in Turkey at the moment. We really want to avoid these same developments within the Turkish community or of Turkish origin in Belgium. We will continue to follow this and, at the trilateral meeting which is not yet formally set but which will be set, we will be keen to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u32	Mr Minister, I really invite you and your colleague from the Ministry of Home Affairs to be involved in this matter because, of course, you mentioned that there is clearly a will...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u33	Especially justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u34	Yes, justice. There's obviously a will to import the purge into our house. We know that the situation is not improving. We received yesterday, as you know, a member of the HDP party who spoke on the sadly deteriorating rule of law in Turkey and particularly in the south-east region. The atmosphere in the majority Turkish neighbourhoods of Brussels has become very heavy. Everyone is ordered to position themselves for or against Erdogan. Polarization is likely to get worse. There are hate speech, abusive speech, especially on social networks. There is really a will and an organisation to import this political problem into Belgium. People are now facing threats against them, their families, their businesses on the pretext that they have sponsored an activity. These are really serious facts that must be followed with great interest so that it does not really explode in our home. I think the tension is very strong at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u35	Minister, Belgium has built up an international profile of defending justice over the last 50 years. It is a profile that we have earned because of the commitment of different governments and people's representatives to human rights. It is a crucial cornerstone of our external relations that is not called into question by the democratic parties in our country. The fact that you are aspiring one of the temporary seats in the UN Security Council for our country is therefore a positive thing. It will help us to knock all the harder on the table in human rights violations worldwide. However, we should do so already for the crimes of the Syrian regime and its concentration camp practices. It is, after all, in favour of international condemnation and repression of torture and the death penalty that we have acquired a seat on the UN Human Rights Council. You have told the media that you made the agreement in Australia that, if they support us for the seat in 2019, we will support them in 2029, ten years later. Not only that, we would also support them in obtaining a seat on the UN Human Rights Council, and I have some questions and reservations about that. Why do you think Australia deserves a seat on the UN Human Rights Council and therefore deserves our support? What arguments have convinced you? Have you promised only support for a seat on the Human Rights Council or have you also promised support for their proposals? What points would the Australian representation wish to place on the agenda if it were to have a seat on the UN Human Rights Council? Did you discuss this with your Australian colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u36	Mrs Pehlivan, as the elections for membership of the Human Rights Council and the Security Council always take place by secret ballot, it is neither usual nor appropriate to make detailed public statements on our voting behaviour nor on the exchange of support. However, I am allowed to give a number of elements, as is the case with the media. I can assure you that, in elections to the Human Rights Council, Belgium takes into account both the position of candidates on multilateral human rights forums and the human rights situation in the country itself. This is done in accordance with the Human Rights Council's Resolution establishing that the UN Member States will take into account the candidate's contributions to the promotion and protection of human rights and their voluntary commitment when choosing the members of the Council. With regard to your question on the priorities Australia will defend in the Human Rights Council, Australia informed the UN Member States, including Belgium, that, if elected, it will take the following five themes to heart: gender equality, good governance, freedom of expression, the rights of indigenous peoples and strong national human rights institutions. Australia, which was never previously a member of the Human Rights Council, which is also a criterion of "sustainability," was very active as an observer on the abolition of the death penalty. You know that Belgium is one of the countries that is very active in terms of the possible abolition of the death penalty. This is therefore also a priority issue for our country. We remain in dialogue with Australia on these human rights issues. We are therefore prepared to cooperate with this country in the Human Rights Council or in other fora on the basis of this programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u37	Madam President, Minister, in view of what is also happening in Syria, it is important that Belgium is firmly committed to respect for human rights worldwide, and that we do not ignore our eyes if that is convenient. I especially hope you do not (...). Your answer says that you did not, and I want to believe you. I hope that Belgium will put human rights first and continue to defend it. We must not give in to it, not even in exchange for seats or a mandate. Minister, Australia is not an undisputed country. In recent years, Australia has been repeatedly condemned by Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International for the way in which the country is tackling refugees and migrants harshly. I would like to give an example from Amnesty International's report on this system, called Island of Despair, which means Island of Despair: "The Australian Government's policy, which was recently exclaimed by Prime Minister Turnbull at the UN Summit on Refugees, is exactly the opposite of what countries should seek. It minimizes protection and maximizes people's suffering. Australia, one of the initiators of the refugee treaty, is grossly violating international law and encouraging other countries to do the same. Mr. Secretary, that's not nothing. I hope that in your commitment, it is still ten to twelve years, it will not destroy our faith in and the defence of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u38	Question No 16032 by Mr David Clarinval and questions No 16063 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 16071 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u39	Question No 16064 by Mrs Jadin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u40	Minister, the information about Donald Trump's arrival at the end of May for the inauguration of NATO's new headquarters was confirmed yesterday. In the media, our Prime Minister reacted by declaring this coming "positive", adding that he hoped to be able to meet with the President and that this coming was "an important moment that confirmed our international role". President Trump has already announced his willingness to invest several hundred billion euros in the military budget in the coming years, and to demand additional efforts also from other NATO members. "De Tijd" said on 7 February that Belgium might have to increase its military budget by €5 billion to meet the demands of the US President. This will is quite consistent with the warlike vision defended by the billionaire government set up by Donald Trump. This Government is ready to wage economic wars and clearly also to prolong them at the military level. This is also consistent with Trump's general policy, which fully meets the interests of big business and, among other things, those of the military-industrial complex industry. It is now known that the president is prepared to go after all the tax, financial, social or environmental rules to serve the interests of Wall Street's great people. Since then, it has been known that the President of the House of Commons of the British Parliament has declared that he has refused to receive Mr Trump, given his current policy. Minister, what are the current contacts with the Trump administration regarding his arrival in Belgium? What will be your government's attitude to its coming, given the elements of its policy? Do you not think that, given his statements, Mr Trump should not be welcome to Belgium? Vice-President Mike Pence also announced a visit to Belgium in February. What are the contacts and the meeting schedule? Is it planned that he will meet with the Belgian government? More generally, how do you envisage Belgium's commitment to NATO, in the new context of Donald Trump's election? What were the discussions on this with the European partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u41	Madam President, dear colleague, at the 2016 Warsaw Summit, the NATO Heads of State and Government decided to hold their next meeting at the new headquarters in Brussels. With a view to organizing this NATO Summit, current contacts with President Donald Trump's new US administration are mainly at the level of the Secretary General of NATO and his staff. Indeed, this is not a bilateral matter. The United States of America is a founding member of the Atlantic Alliance, which now has 28 allies. In its role as host country of the Alliance's two seats (political in Brussels and military at SHAPE in Casteau), Belgium must ensure that the political and military authorities of all the Member States can attend the Alliance's meetings taking place in its territory. I had the opportunity to speak with the Secretary General of NATO. We are trying to set a date, if possible, during this first semester. This NATO Summit would therefore indeed be held in Brussels in the presence of the US President and in the framework of the inauguration of the new NATO building in Evere. On 19 February, Vice-President Pence will make a short visit to our country. It will, of course, be received by the government and, in particular, by the Prime Minister. The programme of this meeting is still in preparation. I have, moreover, made contacts to organise meetings in Brussels or Washington with the new US Secretary of State. Since then, at the end of the Second World War, Belgium has guided its defence and security policy in NATO's multilateral approach. As was the case in the past, the personality of the White House tenant has no influence on this sovereign decision. I would simply point out that, already at a summit in Wales, our country had committed itself to reaching 2% of GDP. And at the Chicago Summit, the previous US President had already mentioned the demand for an increase in the European Union's military spending to take on a larger share of Europe's defence within the NATO framework. For the rest, I am obviously listening to all parliaments and parliamentarians. However, I can only note that it is very difficult to talk about human rights with Australia, to talk about trade with Canada. If, besides, you don't want us to get the U.S. president, we'll have to close the shop soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u42	Minister, I take note of your answer and of the fact that this visit is not the result of a bilateral decision. I note with you that NATO's headquarters are established in our country. Nevertheless, I am surprised to hear the Prime Minister characterize this coming as "positive". In the current context, and with regard not only to the statements, but above all to the decisions of the President of the United States, this kind of statement has been inappropriate. The behaviour of the U.S. president is a problem in many ways. Therefore, to describe this visit as positive seems inappropriate to me on the part of the Prime Minister. With regard to Belgium's involvement in NATO, the election of Donald Trump can also interlocate us because of its bellicist tendencies, its current policy and the demands on our country in terms of military commitment and spending. This Trump presidency could be an opportunity to ask us about our country's membership of this organization or, at least, the role it plays in it. I know, of course, that we are very far away on these issues, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u43	Madam President, Minister, Israel announced on Tuesday 24 January the construction of 2,500 settlement housing units in the occupied West Bank, the most important announcement of its kind in years, exploiting the new realities in Washington – the election of President Trump – a priori more favourable to the Netanyahu government. On 1 February, an additional 3,000 housing units were also announced. This is Israel's fourth settlement decision since January. After the green light given this Sunday to the construction of 566 housing units in settlement areas of East Jerusalem, the majority Palestinian part of the city occupied and annexed by Israel, and the 153 housing units in Jerusalem, frozen at the time of the Obama administration. This announcement reflects the clear will shown by the Israeli government to take advantage of the new deal created by Donald Trump's election. Netanyahu did not hesitate to tweet: "We are building and we will continue to build". A new law was approved to this effect at the Knesset this week. Minister, what about the deepening of the policy of differentiation between Israel and its colonies? What about possible sanctions to address this continuing violation of international law? Although we condemn it, it does not seem to bring much thought and change to Mr Netanyahu's head of government. Apart from the essential fact of condemning colonization, do you not consider that it is time to initiate initiatives, in particular to determine the "time" to which you condition the recognition of Palestine by our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u44	Minister, Israel announced on 31 January the construction of 3,000 settlement housing units in the occupied West Bank, the fourth such announcement in less than two weeks since the inauguration of US President Donald Trump. This is an additional pledge given to the supporters of settlement, at a time when the Israeli authorities seem to have no choice but to apply an Israeli court order and demolish the settlement of Amona. Since 20 January, the date of Trump's swearing-in, Israel has given its final green light to the construction of 566 housing units in three occupied and annexed settlement areas of East Jerusalem, and announced the construction of 2,502 housing units in the West Bank. Last Thursday, the Israeli municipality of Jerusalem gave its final agreement to 153 new housing units. "We are building and we will continue to build," said Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, adding that Donald Trump's presidency was "a great chance." Minister, my questions are as follows. In the face of these four new announcements in flagrant violation of international law, do you not consider that it is time to take concrete action against Israel? What are the objectives of the EU-Israel Association Council at the end of February? What will be the discussions on the agenda? Do you think it is appropriate to send a signal of deepening relations in the current context? In addition, the Prime Minister is travelling to Israel. What meetings are planned and what are the objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u45	Minister, as you know, Israeli settlement policy has taken off at a high rate since the election of Donald Trump. It looks like all the brakes are loose in Israel. In addition, the Knesset debated an meanwhile also approved law allowing for the legal annexation of parts of the Westbank. That is an unseen demarche since the annexation of East Jerusalem in 1980. On 28 February there will be an EU-Israel Association Council. This is the ideal forum for political dialogue between the EU and Israel. The question is whether it is appropriate to allow this council to continue now that Israel is de facto pursuing an illegal annexation policy in Palestinian territory. Even President Trump warned recently that new settlements might not be so conducive to peace. I have three questions for you. Firstly, do you think it is appropriate, in the current circumstances, to allow the foreseen EU-Israel Association Council to continue on 28 February? Secondly, are you prepared to argue at European level to postpone the Association Council? Thirdly, will you call for such a delay to be accompanied by a strong signal that the European Union no longer tolerates Israeli settlement policy and that, at European level, further differentiation policy on settlements should be pursued? So not only a conviction, but also effective actions link to the condemnation that has been pronounced for several years, also by Mrs Mogherini and by you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u46	We could've reached everything. I talked about the policy of differentiation. Here, it is specifically a question of what position Belgium will be defending at this Association Council on 28 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u47	Madam President, as the High Representative of the European Union has once again expressed, Belgium has repeatedly pointed out that Israel's colonization policy is illegal under international law, that it is an obstacle to peace and that it is likely to seriously compromise the possibility of a two-State solution. The law just passed by the Israeli Parliament, aimed at regularizing illegal settlements, under Israeli law, is entering a new phase in settlement policy. She's very worrying. If implemented, this law will only exacerbate tensions and further distance the prospect of a two-State solution. Its adoption was strongly condemned by the High Representative on behalf of the European Union yesterday. The same position was expressed directly by the Belgian Prime Minister in his contacts with the Israeli and Palestinian authorities, as well as in a national communiqué issued today. Mrs Mogherini recalled, after the Foreign Affairs Council on 6 February, that the European Union remains committed to the quartet, but also to regional actors, so that this two-state solution can be implemented. A number of contacts will be held with the US administration in the near future. The High Representative will travel to Washington this week and the US Vice-President is expected to be in Brussels on 20 February. This will be an opportunity to reiterate the position of the European Union and the Belgian position – with regard to the US Vice-President's visit – and hopefully to clarify the positions of the US administration, which remains a major player in the search for a definitive solution to the conflict. As far as the Association Council with Israel is concerned, I argued with my EU colleagues the day before yesterday that this meeting should be postponed. The date of 28 February was not taken into account, but it was decided to launch a number of preparations with a view to investing the Association Council. I am of course in favour of a serene, frank and constructive dialogue with Israel. In this sense, the Association Council is an opportunity, but I think we should give ourselves time to prepare this Council properly, on the understanding that such a dialogue should cover all the EU's priorities, as well as the issue of the peace process in all its dimensions. In addition, Belgium attaches particular attention to the issue of the parallelism of the discussion with the Palestinian authorities. I asked, together with other colleagues, to come back to that point in our next meeting in March. So there is no date yet, we are only in a preparatory phase and we are in favour of parallelism, a similary contact with the Palestinian authorities. As part of his trip to the region, the Prime Minister met with President Rivlin and Prime Minister Netanyahu for the Israeli side, while he met with Prime Minister Hamdallah on the Palestinian side. As I have already indicated, these talks were an opportunity to clearly recall the Belgian position on Israel's settlement policy and to call on all parties to commit themselves actively to peace. President Mahmoud Abbas will talk to our Prime Minister in Brussels tomorrow. We will therefore have the opportunity to remind him also of our country's position in this area and to discuss with him how to envisage the resumption, in one way or another, of a dialogue with a view to finding a peace solution. As far as differentiation policy is concerned, as you know, the EU has already taken a number of measures to make a clear distinction between Israel and settlements. In the future, Belgium will always work for a common EU position, as this will certainly have more impact. In accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 2334 we will continue to distinguish between the territory of the State of Israel on the one hand and the territories occupied since 1967 on the other. Mrs Grovonius, as regards your suggestion on the recognition of Palestine as a State, you know my position on this. It also joins the resolution adopted by the House on 5 February 2015. We are determined to recognize Palestine as a State, but the moment of such recognition will be determined on the basis of various elements, including the positive impact that such recognition could have in order to revive or support an inclusive political process of negotiations between Israel and Palestine and the evolution of the dialogue between the Member States of the European Union on this subject. In the current state of affairs, it is difficult to believe that the recognition of Palestine will have any positive impact on the revival of the political process. We therefore do not believe that the opportune time for recognition of Palestine has come. I have also had the opportunity to discuss this issue with several of my European colleagues, particularly during recent visits to Lisbon and Madrid, but also during the meetings we have held this week. I would like to add that one of the points we are trying to develop within the European Union is the maintenance of unanimity by the European Union in its position on the conflict in the Middle East. I really hope that the European Union can play an active role, not only in the quartet but in relaunching a peace dialogue. I do not hide that in recent times it is particularly difficult to maintain this unanimous position with regard to the situation in the Middle East. If the European Union failed to maintain a unanimous position there or elsewhere, it would lose credibility in its foreign policy actions. I therefore believe that you must also pay attention to this concern which is ours. There have been very clear reactions to the vote that has just taken place in the Knesset, both in Belgium and on the spot, during the Prime Minister's visit, or at European Union level. I stress that we are constantly confronted with the need to work unanimously. This is true in the Middle East conflict, it is true when we talk about Ukraine and our relations with Russia, and it is true in many other issues which, unfortunately, are particularly worrying at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. We have had these debates a little too often, unfortunately. You cited the case of Ukraine as regards the importance of trying to maintain a form of unanimity in the European position. I can hear that argument. However, as far as Ukraine is concerned, it has not prevented us from seeing and implementing economic sanctions. I stress that convictions, however important they may be, are unfortunately just words. When there are continued condemnations of violations of international law and at the same time there are tight hands around major economic agreements between Israel and Belgium, it can be seen that words weigh little in relation to a situation where men, women and children suffer daily in their flesh. Sanctions are needed, without which no reaction will ever be obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u49	Mr Minister, Israel is still pushing its illegal settlement policy to the fore and Belgium and the European Union are repeating a frank dialogue with Israel. This frank dialogue is clearly a white-sing. One can condemn but clearly Israel laughs at it. You say that if the European Union is not unanimous, it loses its credibility, but what is the credibility of this policy of laissez-faire? We lost it. It must be made clear that Israel continues to be considered a geostrategic ally, a trading partner with which there is business to do. And all that Israel can do with illegality does not matter to us, ultimately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The Association Council's agenda included the deepening of relations between the EU and Israel. I believe that in the circumstances there can be no question of further measures of favour for Israel. I don't think this is a good time. I think it is very positive that you have argued in favour of postponing the Association Council. I think this could be the most logical decision. You say you condemn the settlement policy. That's right. You do that from Belgium. The European Union does so, but of course it does not have an impact. We can see that in the facts. If you say that we must maintain this unanimous position from within the EU, I think that Belgium can also do a number of things alone without compromising unanimity within Europe. I am thinking, for example, of the plea for postponing the Association Council. You did. Another example, the FPS Justice is involved in the EU-LAW-TRAIN project. It would be perfectly possible for Belgium to withdraw from that project without compromising the European consensus. You know the project. One of the problems with this is that there is cooperation with the Israeli police whose headquarters are in occupied territory. I think it can be possible, as a small diplomatic signal, without, therefore, completely undermining the credibility of our country, to withdraw from it. I would ask you to look again with your administration to take that step. The problem remains unanimity in the EU. If it is not there, if the EU can only be unanimous on the status quo, then Belgian diplomacy also has a very big problem. Then we must try to break out of that carcan on a number of points. I have just made a number of suggestions about domains in which you can do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u51	Mr Crusnière has been excused. He's abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u52	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, since 29 January, images of European airports showing, such as piloris, names of passengers who were thought to be nationals of the seven countries on the blacklist drawn up by the US President have been on social networks. The truth has its rights, and in the meantime, we have learned that these pictures of airport screens are in fact about something else. However, the decree signed this Friday 27 January suspends the granting of American visas to all Yemeni, Iraqi, Libyan, Somali, Sudanese, Syrian and Iranian citizens for 90 days. The presidential order was immediately brought to justice, successfully, by several lawyers and rights organisations, including the American Civil Liberties Union. The measure applies – I should say it applied – even to nationals of these countries when they have another nationality. The lists seen here and there at European airports contain consonant names reminiscent of the origins of these passengers, and sometimes even their religion. These methods of banishment recall the darkest hours of contemporary European history. Hence, Deputy Prime Minister, my four questions. Could you elaborate on the way in which Belgium's deep concern about this indecent and completely racist decree has materialized diplomatically? Have you made contact with the European Union and our neighbouring countries, such as Germany and France, to coordinate a common European attitude in this area? Could you tell us how many Belgian citizens who also have one of these seven nationalities have had the unpleasant experience of not being able to travel to the United States since 27 January? We know that in the meantime the ban has jumped. Finally, as early as 29 January, the Canadian and British governments obtained a guarantee that their binational nationals would not be affected by the measure, unless their flight departed from one of the countries concerned. A Syrian-Canadian will be able to enter the United States from Canada, but not from Syria. Have such exceptions been negotiated with the US government for binational citizens of the European Union and/or Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u53	Minister, Mr Hellings has outlined the problem very well, so I will not repeat it. I would simply like to point out that Prime Minister Michel also stated that Belgium disagreed with this decision. You called that entry ban arbitrary and very brutal. I think that is the appropriate wording for what was decided by President Trump. I have four questions. Has there been any consultation at European level on this issue? If so, what is the conclusion? Will there be direct communication from the EU with the US Government to condemn this measure? In the meantime, we have also heard Mrs Mogherini, but could you explain a little more? Do you have any idea of the consequences for persons residing in Belgium, including those of dual nationality, who have both Belgian citizenship and the citizenship of one of the seven countries endorsed? Have your service or the Belgian embassies abroad already received any questions about this from Belgians with a dual nationality? Is the Belgian embassy in Washington following this file closely? I suppose so. Can you explain the information you could already receive from them? Has our ambassador already notified the Belgian Government's concerns about this decision to the US Government? Finally, do you believe that this executive order violates international law, such as the Geneva Convention on Refugees or internal American law? That has already been demonstrated by the judge's ruling, but what is your view on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u54	Minister, I have the same question. The situation is clear. Belgium has always been a bridge builder and has always been a pioneer of international cooperation. We have an open society and an open economy. Today we see that the United States, which has always been a loyal ally in that story, has taken a number of measures and made statements that are extremely worrying. The entry ban to the US from seven countries with a large Muslim community is indeed a sad highlight. The new administration in the US clearly has a very different view than the EU, for example on Russia, on free trade and on NATO. We must continue to stand up for the values we are pursuing, and we must continue to defend them. Europe has already responded to this in several ways. European President Tusk expressed his concern in no uncertain terms. Let me quote: 'The challenges facing the European Union now are the most dangerous since the signing of the Treaty of Rome some 60 years ago, including the worrying statements made by the new US government.' It is actually the first time that the European Union has sent a message to the US in this way. The German Chancellor Merkel has already strongly condemned this entry ban. She was again a bit of the moral compass of Europe. We have a few questions about that. Minister, do you agree with Chancellor Merkel on the US entry ban? A second question has already been put by my fellow Members. Have you already heard of Belgians who were refused access to the US? Which Belgians are they talking about? We often talk about Belgians of dual nationality, but we also hear stories about Belgians who have travelled to one of the seven countries in the past and who are now refused if they want to travel to the US. Last week, the EU summit in Malta took place. Was the policy of the new US administration discussed there? If so, which elements were addressed? What will be the consequences of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u55	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about two measures: the decree concerning these seven countries, which has been discussed, and the suspension by Donald Trump of the reception of refugees for four months, and indefinitely for Syrian refugees. Minister, have there been any problems with passengers coming from or returned to our country? With people who may have dual nationality? If so, can you specify the number and the cases? What were the political and diplomatic reactions of Belgium and the European Union to this measure? Do you not consider this measure to be contrary to the principle of the Geneva Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u56	Madam President, I would first like to point out, as Mr Vandenput did, that, after the publication of this measure, I referred to it as arbitrary and brutal, and I stressed that there are minimum rules on the validity of travel documents. Of course, this is the free will of each State to give access to its territory or not. But I have described it as brutal, because it concerns people who had travel documents quite in order and arbitrariness, because it concerns citizens of a number of countries, without distinction between them. There is therefore no recognition of the particular situations of individuals, which we do not practice. Our department contacted the U.S. Embassy to try to identify, as soon as it was known, the exact scope of the measure in order to properly inform citizens. In this spirit, I refer you to the travel notice that has been amended, for the United States, by the Department of Foreign Affairs. We do not have figures on compatriots with one of the seven nationalities who have had a problem with a trip to the US. We have not received any questions from fellow countrymen on the matter. There may have been problems, I've heard some things in the press, but no contact has been made with our department. Our travel advice for double-nationals from one of the seven countries is to contact the consular services of the US, Belgium or the country in which they reside. We have also asked our embassy in Washington to contact the American services in order to obtain more clarification. There is a commitment to apply for visas, including for people with two nationalities, a Belgian nationality and a nationality from one of the seven countries listed. We also want to consult with different partners. We have contacted external services at European level, but also Germany and the Netherlands. At the Malta Summit on 3 February, the 28 Heads of State and Government discussed the relationship with the new US government. In his letter of invitation to this summit, the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, expressed his concern about recent developments in the United States. At the summit itself, the Heads of Government insisted on their willingness to continue to work together, while recognizing that this will prove difficult on some issues. In any case, as I mentioned in other dossiers, the Union must once again be united in this matter. Last week, High Representative Federica Mogherini made a statement to the European Parliament on the American decree, indicating her disagreement with the measure. The European Union has also raised its concerns with the Secretary of Homeland Security. On 3 February, a United States court decision temporarily suspended the implementation of the decree, a decision against which an appeal was initiated. Therefore, we have adapted our travel notice again. We will of course follow the situation step by step. I would also like to point out, on refugee issues (this will be communicated to Mr. Van Hees), that the United States is not a party to the 1951 Geneva Convention concerning Refugees and is therefore not bound by the letter of that Convention. That does not prevent us from discussing it at European level and in contacts with our American colleagues. I would also like to say that it is one of the reasons why contact with the new American administration is so necessary. We will try to maintain contacts with, for example, the Vice-President and I will also try to have contacts with my new colleague. We must try to have a discussion in this context. I do not mean that the decree should be abolished, but we can ask for help for our compatriots with two nationalities, one of whom is one of those seven countries. In our contact with our American fellow Members, I am also prepared to discuss the next step. I have heard that the new US administration may take other measures in connection with visa rules. We must ask questions about this and perhaps also express our concerns towards our American fellow Members. This is a subject that we will follow precisely, not only within the European Union but also bilaterally. Belgium's position on this decree was clearly expressed. I would like to recall that there is both a non-participation of the United States in the 1951 Geneva Convention with regard to the refugee component and a specific competence of each State with regard to access to the territory. In addition to the decision on these seven States, we must remain particularly vigilant about the follow-up to decisions that could be taken in the United States. Therefore, we will have to discuss this with the American authorities. It seems to me important that these contacts take place both bilaterally and on the part of the Union. As I said earlier, in another context, the High Representative is going to Washington in the next few days where she will obviously address this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u57	Minister, we have entered another world where no one yet perceives the ins and outs of it. We're gonna have to get used to it. You say you intend to contact Vice President Mike Pence. I encourage you. Let us hope that the impeachment is not too far away and that we should not wait too long!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u58	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u59	You did not answer my fourth question about any facilities similar to those that Canada and Great Britain have obtained for their binationals. Obviously, this is not planned or envisaged for Belgium or the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u60	According to the contacts we have made, because it has circulated, there seems to be no differentiation. There is a need for visas in the same way. We are apparently in the same situation as Canada and Britain, except perhaps in the early hours following this Order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u61	I share with you the analysis that this indiscriminate measure is completely foolish and absurd because it is ineffective from the point of view of security. None of these seven countries concerns a terrorist who committed an act on the ground of the United States because, as I recall, the terrorists of 11 September were Egyptians and Saudis. The political initiative is abominable because it legitimizes all racist behaviour, including the most violent in the United States and elsewhere in the world. I will end by quoting Meryl Streep, at a famous cinema ceremony, which said that when a public person, a fortiori a president of the United States, downgrades others in this way, it gives the right to others to do the same thing. Lack of respect leads to lack of respect, violence and violence. When a person who has power lowers others, we all lose. This is indeed an unfortunate conclusion to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u62	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You have said once again that bold and arbitrary decision is indeed the right analysis. We must not forget that the President has been democratically elected. So we must not condemn the system as a whole here. I think we should follow action by action. I think your services are doing well in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u63	I think we should keep an eye on evolution. After all, we know what the situation is now, but we do not know what will happen next. So we need to follow that up. It is also important for Europe to continue to talk with one voice and to insist on cooperation. We must not fall into what is now happening in the United States, namely the self-restraint. We must continue to build bridges, engage in discussion and work together to express our concerns with all the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u64	Madam President, Minister, I shall return to the situation in Israel and Palestine, and more specifically to the issue of administrative detentions. As a reminder, today more than 700 Palestinians, women, men and children, are under administrative detention in Israel. Numerous reports by international organizations attest that Israel uses administrative detention as a means of collective punishment, which is again in opposition to international law. A motion for a resolution adopted in plenary on 23 November 2016 calls on the government "to continue to urge the Israeli authorities to put an end to the use of the technique of administrative detention, including as a means of repression of political and community movements, to condemn this practice on the international scene, paying particular attention to the situation of minors detained under this regime and to call on the Israeli authorities to guarantee the right of Palestinians to a fair trial". Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. Was this position defended by you and the government both bilaterally and multilaterally? Has the specific issue of the fate of minors also been addressed in this context? Indeed, I have learned that it would appear that the Palestine Circus School has once again paid the cost of this administrative detention practice. In fact, on Thursday, 26 January 2016, Sohaib Saeed, a 12-year-old child, was deprived of liberty for throwing stones, according to the Israeli authorities. A few days later, the sentence fell and the child was sentenced to 31 days in prison and a fine of 500 shekels, or about 130 euros. This practice is very shocking and I strongly condemn it. I would therefore also like to hear from you, Minister, on this specific aspect of the issue of minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u65	Mrs Grovonius, we are aware of the arrest of young Sohaib Saeed. This issue is closely followed by our Consulate General in Jerusalem. As I have already had the opportunity to recall here, our position on administrative detention does not suffer the slightest ambiguity. We condemn them in general and recall that administrative arrests must remain exceptional measures, for a limited period of time and taking into account various safeguards, such as the right to respect for the rights of defence of the detainee and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time. On 9 December, the office of the European Union Representative for the West Bank and Gaza issued a local communiqué on administrative detentions, recalling the European Union's position on this issue and specifically mentioning the case of Mr. Mohammed Abu Sakha, host of the Birzeit circus school, as well as that of other detainees. The communiqué was prepared on behalf of all Member States' delegations in Jerusalem and Ramallah. That being said, the case of young Sohaib Saeed does not a priori fall within the scope of an administrative detention file. Contrary to the case of the host of the circus school, a sentence was handed down. It is therefore more about the arrest of a minor and the obvious disproportionality of the sentence. I would like to reiterate that Belgium and the European Union are concerned about the Israeli method of trying Palestinian minors before military courts. We have a regular opportunity to raise this issue in our contacts with the Israeli authorities. We'll do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. I refer to my previous questions for the follow-up that I believe should be given to this impunity that continues to wreak havoc in this region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u67	Minister, this time the change of power between presidents is a little different from the previous one. Especially the transfer between President Obama's administration and President Trump's administration is something else. Indeed, there are a number of very quick decisions on the resignation of officials, but there is no clarity about the follow-up. My question is specifically about the Undersecretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, which deals, inter alia, with nuclear non-proliferation and the monitoring of arms control treaties. He has recently resigned and no successor is yet known. I can imagine that this may hinder or impede negotiations, as the US is an important player in such negotiations. I have a few questions about this. How do international arms control negotiations usually take place when one of the participating countries is in a transition period between two governments? Has it happened before that no responsible member of the government was known on behalf of the United States? What influence does the absence of the appointment of the Undersecretary have on the negotiations on non-proliferation of weapons, in particular nuclear weapons? What impact does the failure to appoint the Undersecretary have on the UN negotiations on UN resolution L41, which would start on 27 March? I know there's still a big month left, but I just wanted to know how this is handled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u68	Mrs Bellens, a number of political positions in the US administration are filled by political appointment. Consequently, a number of changes in staff take place during the transfer between two governors, especially if they come from different political parties. Since the U.S. Senate has to give its consent to political appointments, it is more often that functions are performed by acting officials for a certain period of time. This is the case, for example, for the diplomatic service. In the embassy, some functions are now in the hands of acting diplomats. Political coverage is always ensured by the highest politically responsible, in this case the Secretary of State. The United States will therefore, as before, participate in the arms control negotiations, for example, in the work in May of this year, in preparation for the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference. The new administration will develop a new policy whose impact cannot be determined at the moment. As a reminder, under the previous administration, it was indicated that the US would not participate in the negotiations on a nuclear weapons ban. We must therefore now work with the acting officials responsible for the preparatory work for the negotiations. Then it might be useful to get more details about the position of the new administration, because until now that position is still uncertain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u69	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u70	Mr President, Minister, relations between the various states of Bosnia and Herzegovina are very fragile. The recent flare-up of tensions in the region, including between Serbia and Kosovo, and the possible escalation of these tensions through arms deliveries from Russia to Serbia, also have an impact on the situation in Bosnia. For example, in September 2016, Republika Srpska rejected a referendum ruling by the Bosnian Supreme Court on their national holiday. It would fall on 9 January, the day when the Bosnian-Serbian Republic declared its independence, which gave rise to the Bosnian war. NATO and the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina have also indicated that celebrating this holiday does not fit in with the spirit of the Dayton agreements. Republika Srpska is not exactly impressed and still celebrated on 9 January, even with a military parade. Looks like there's a possible further escalation. I'm pressing myself very carefully. In response, the US has imposed sanctions against President Dodik of Republika Srpska and the EU has also decided to suspend diplomatic contacts with President Dodik. What is your analysis of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina? What analysis does the EU make of the situation in the country? What is the government and the EU's position on the tensions in the country? Will sanctions be imposed on Mr Dodik following the EU's break-up of diplomatic contacts? What is the argument for that? What is the state of play with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina's candidacy to join the EU and what is the impact of the current tensions on Bosnia's candidacy? How does our country and the EU intervene in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to reduce tensions between the various states?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u71	Mrs Bellens, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina remains complex and fragile, both economically and politically. Progress was made in implementing socio-economic reforms. As far as the rule of law is concerned, Bosnia has drawn up important action plans, including the fight against corruption. It is with the implementation of these action plans that the Bosnian authorities will be able to demonstrate good will to move forward on the path of European integration. Belgium and the European Union deplore the referendum in Republika Srpska which is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The nationalist rhetoric and provocations of the President of the Republika Srpska, Milorad Dodik, contribute to political instability and are contrary to the spirit of the Dayton Agreement and the European integration process of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This referendum causes unnecessary tensions. The sterile polemic does not meet the needs of the Bosnian people, who expect new jobs and better prospects for the future of the country. There is no decision by the European Union to break diplomatic relations with Milorad Dodik or the Republika Srpska authorities. The EU encouraged the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to resolve this problem through established legal procedures, constructive dialogue and the existing constitutional framework. Although no European sanctions are actively envisaged, the EU institutions and Member States continue to monitor the consequences of the lack of respect for decisions of the Constitutional Court. In this context, the EU also has instruments other than sanctions, such as the dialogue on justice with the entities and central institutions. Bosnia and Herzegovina submitted an application for EU membership on 15 February 2016. Following the Council conclusions of December 2014, the European Union is committed to consider this application on the basis of significant progress in the reform agenda, the elaboration of an EU coordination mechanism between the different levels of government and the adaptation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina following the EU accession of Croatia. The Council then asked the European Commission to carry out a technical analysis of the candidature, for which it provided a comprehensive questionnaire to the Bosnian Government. Only after the Commission's analysis will the Bosnian candidacy be considered by the Council, with the constructive commitment of the Serbian Republic in the newly established but not yet operational EU coordination mechanism playing an important role. Our country will hold a seminar in Sarajevo and Banja Luka in April with a joint delegation of officials from both my administration and from the regions and communities. There will be a presentation of the Belgian coordination mechanism in preparation for the Council meetings of the European Union. Belgium has a certain experience in this area. We hope that this will inspire the various entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to cooperate more constructively on the EU agenda. This is an example of the very serious difficulties in implementing an agreement. We held many meetings with Cathy Ashton in Brussels, with Pristina and Belgrade, to enable a positive evolution in the relationship between Serbia and Kosovo. The same reasoning applies to Bosnia and Herzegovina, for which the European Union is making a great deal of effort to bring about a positive development, with a number of possible agreements. After that, however, we have a lot of problems with the implementation of these agreements. That was the case with Kosovo and Serbia, but that is also the case with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Sometimes there are even the same actors in the two dossiers. It is always very difficult to reach an agreement, but it is even more difficult to achieve the correct implementation of such an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u72	I agree with you, Minister. I've been to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Twenty years after the Dayton agreements, there is still the agreement which should have been the basis for a constitution. Little or no progress is being made because all parties adhere to that agreement. Nevertheless, I think that this region is very important for Europe. It is the east side of the European Union. I think we should keep a finger on the pulse in this region. We must try to keep peace, because the situation is, to put it mildly, highly flammable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u73	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lijnen's 16415 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u74	With this question about Serbia, I remain in the same region, Minister. There's a lot of turmoil in the area. Meanwhile, Russia continues to interfere in the internal affairs of a number of states. Ukraine is the best known example, but there was also a possible attempted murder on the Prime Minister of Montenegro. Russian activists would have put themselves behind that. Serbia would have stopped those activists on the border with Montenegro. So it seems that Russia is actively expanding its network in that region. I am also thinking of the supply of military equipment, including MIG-29 fighter planes, tanks and 30 military combat vehicles. Given the tensions in the region, between Serbia and Kosovo, the almost completed accession of Montenegro to NATO and the internal tensions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this supply of arms can put a great deal of pressure on stability in the region, which is why I am asking. What is the analysis of your administration regarding the supply of military equipment by Russia to Serbia? What analysis does the EU make of this? What is the government and the EU's position on this arsenal expansion? How does our country and the EU monitor relations between the various Balkan countries and, in particular, the states of supposedly former Yugoslavia? What impact does this transfer of arms have on Serbia's accession talks with the EU?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u75	Mrs Bellens, I am aware of the will of the Serbian authorities to purchase military equipment, including in Russia. The aircraft and tanks mentioned are quite old and need to be modernised by the Serbian government. I also note that the Serbian authorities are openly communicating about this and that this information is being discussed extensively in the press. They justify this purchase in the context of the modernisation of the Serbian armed forces. You rightly refer to the fact that this purchase takes place at a time of tension between Serbia and some neighbouring countries. This is accompanied by increasing Russian interference and presence in the region. Moreover, stability in the Western Balkans is not evolving in a favourable way today. I refer to your previous question on Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there are also other problems. A number of indicators call for caution and attention to the region. The countries of the Western Balkans are in a European integration process. In this context, the European institutions and the Member States closely monitor the internal developments of the countries concerned and their relations with neighbouring countries. The High Representative and the European External Action Service are particularly active in the political dialogue between Kosovo and Serbia. There have been many meetings in Brussels between the two prime ministers to reach an agreement, but implementation is more difficult. The European Union has not yet expressed its concern about the purchase of arms because it has no influence on Serbia's accession negotiations with the European Union and does not pose an immediate threat to stability in the region. This does not prevent the timing from being regrettable in view of regional tensions. We will monitor the situation in Serbia and come back to it at one of the next meetings of the European Union's foreign ministers. More generally, I am concerned about the evolution in the Balkans by the European Commission's decision not to extend the European Union during the current legislature. This is a concrete signal with a number of consequences in the different countries. I don't know if it was necessary to do that. Perhaps it would have been better to move forward with the negotiations without announcing that there would be no enlargement. Secondly, there is a certain influence of Russia in the region, that is clear and clear. We also saw this during the presidential elections in Moldova, for example. Thirdly, we must remain very attentive to the proper implementation of the various agreements. There were a number of agreements in the region, either with different communities in a particular country, but also between Kosovo and Serbia, for example. We must ask for proper implementation in this area. As far as arms supply is concerned, we will return to this at a forthcoming meeting of the European Council for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u76	Mr President, Minister, pointing the finger at Serbia and not giving a vision of the future towards Europe is almost driving it into the arms of the country. I don't know if that's politically the best choice that can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u77	Minister, on 1 February Etienne Tshisekedi died. This is regrettable not only for the next of kin, but also for the implementation of the transition agreement concluded on 31 December 2016. He was one of the strongholds of the opposition and therefore one of the strongholds in the negotiations for the implementation of the transition agreement. The transition agreement included the modalities for the 12 month transition. What is the state of affairs regarding the appointment of a new government, in particular the appointment of a new Prime Minister? What is the state of play in setting up the National Council to follow up the agreement and the electoral process, in particular the taking over of the Presidency after the death of Mr Tshisekedi who was going to take up that presidency? What is the state of play in the creation of a High Magistrate Commission and the reform of the CENI electoral commission and the CSAC media authority? Does the death of Mr Tshisekedi have any further influence on the implementation of the transition agreement? Is there a view of the change of power within the UDPS, the opposition party of which Mr Tshisekedi was the chairman? How's this switch going? The transition agreement has calmed the moods in Congo, but what is the security situation in the country since Mr Tshisekedi's death?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u78	Madam President, I also had a few questions from Mr Luykx and Mrs Jadin on this subject. So I have an answer in the two languages. The death of Étienne Tshisekedi has deprived us of an emblematic figure of the DRC for several decades. After learning about it, on 3 February I went to the residence of the deceased's family in Belgium to offer my condolences and to the relatives present. Thousands of Congolese from the Diaspora gathered at the Palais du Heysel to pay him a final tribute, marking a highlight in the bilateral history of our two countries. This death should, I hope, result in a desire of the Congolese to unite in order to honor his memory and above all the implementation of the agreement of the Saint-Sylvestre, the fruit of his last fight for respect for democracy and the Constitution. However, there are also political risks associated with this event. The question of his succession will have to be settled both at the level of his party (UDPS), the gathering of the opposition, and the National Council for the follow-up of the agreement and the electoral process. Before the death of Étienne Tshisekedi, our country expressed its concern about the implementation of the agreement, as did other countries. In a press statement of 23 January, I reiterated the importance of the agreement. This agreement has led to a substantial return to peace among the population since 31 December. At present, there is no specific danger to our compatriots, but non-essential travels are still not recommended. On 7 February, I had a discussion on the implementation of the agreement with the Congolese bishop conference CENCO, which has all the support of our country and its international partners. I also support their call for responsibility and willingness to compromise to agree as soon as possible on the implementation of the New Year Agreement, which should lead to the rapid designation of a new Prime Minister, proposed by the Assembly, the formation of a new government and a national committee to monitor the implementation of the Agreement, and until the start of an electoral process, which should normally be completed in 2017. You asked me a specific question about a visit by a team dealing with confidence-building measures. I suspect you're referring to the CENCO Committee of Inquiry dealing with the situation of Moïse Katumbi. We hope that CENCO will soon be able to make known the results of this study. With the representative of CENCO, I discussed two important points, namely, firstly, the appointment of a new Prime Minister, and secondly, the publication of the report on various issues relating to Moïse Katumbi. Our country will continue to monitor closely the implementation of the agreement in consultation with our partners. In addition to a number of discussions I had recently with the opposition and the CENCO, on Friday 10 February I will be speaking to my Congolese homologist in Brussels to discuss this issue and to call for a loyal implementation of the agreement of 31 December. I will also, of course, ask that all measures be taken to ensure the safety of our compatriots during this uncertain period. Our department and the embassy in Kinshasa will also continue to actively monitor the political and security situation in the coming weeks and months. Once again, we support the agreement of 31 December. We are asking for the agreement to be properly implemented, because that is always the most difficult issue, and reaching an agreement is in itself so difficult. Thirdly, we are asking for two precise points. First and foremost, the rapid appointment of a new Prime Minister. This is the only way to start proper implementation of the agreement. Secondly, a rapid publication of the CENCO report on the Moïse Katumbi case. As I said, I will be in contact with the situation in Congo in the next few days. We will do the same in the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. It is good that you remain in close contact with all involved and that you will soon be in contact with your homologist. It is interesting to see how they deal with the death of Tshisekedi and not try to put things off. There is always a risk of this. There are a few things that were very good in the Sylvester agreement. However, the fact that the CENI is only due to publish a calendar of elections in April remains worrying. There is then a chance that the elections could not take place at the end of this year. It is therefore a good thing that you continue to play on the ball for a short time and have contact with all those involved and also indicate our priorities, including the designation of the Prime Minister and the follow-up of the case around Katumbi. I think it is important that you continue to raise these priorities and express concerns about the lack of a electoral calendar that is necessary to organise elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u80	As Mr Luykx was not present, Mr Blanchart would like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u81	Minister, at the end of January, Ukraine experienced a renewed confrontation in the eastern part of the country, between the Kiev army and the pro-Russian rebels. On this front line are thousands of civilians, without electricity or heating. Their fate is a source of concern for the European Union and the United Nations. The United Nations Security Council called for the immediate restoration of the existing ceasefire. For its part, the European Union's diplomacy denounced a flagrant breach of the ceasefire that had been put in place at the end of December. A meeting took place in early February between the trilateral contact group between Moscow, Kiev and the OSCE. As a reminder, this contact group had allowed the signing of the peace agreement in 2015, the provisions of which are regularly violated and the political aspect of which has remained a dead letter. Minister, can you give us a brief account of the current situation in this region? In view of this new situation, can you tell us more about the development of the situation between the European Union, Ukraine and Russia? Both sides accuse each other of being responsible for these attacks. Do you know more about the causes of this non-compliance with the ceasefire put in place at the end of December? What is the impact of this ceasefire violation on the population and on the delivery of humanitarian assistance, in particular? Finally, in this context, how has the dialogue between NATO and Russia evolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u82	Mr Blanchart, I will answer you in both languages, since there was also a question from Mr Luykx. Since the end of January, fighting in the north of Donetsk in eastern Ukraine has increased. They have resulted in military and civilian casualties on both sides of the contact line. The most intense fighting is concentrated around two cities, Avdiivka, located in the area controlled by the Ukrainian government, and Yassynouvata, under the control of separatist forces. According to the OSCE, these are the most intense bombings in the region since last summer. The use of heavy weapons, prohibited by the Minsk agreements, is reported. The fighting was violent but confined to a small area. Although we've been talking about a lull since this weekend, the risk of a recovery remains real. In any case, the fights deserve our attention, since in any case they represent a security challenge in Europe and are accompanied by considerable human suffering. Within the framework of the EU and NATO, our country cooperates closely with other Member States and closely monitors the situation in Ukraine. The direct causes of this outbreak of violence are difficult to identify. These fightings are in fact part of a logic of continuous and growing violation of the ceasefire in recent months. It is not impossible for the parties to the conflict, in particular the separatist forces, to seek to expand the territory under their control, as this highly industrialized region is strategically important in terms of infrastructure. To establish a causal link between the flare-up of violence and the election of Donald Trump does not seem obvious to me. The fights are a test for the new administration in the United States. The recent statements by the US Ambassador to the Security Council certainly give the impression that there will be no substantial change in the US's attitude to Crimean sanctions in the short term. Former so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called A telephone call between Ukrainian President Poroshenko and President Trump seems to confirm this position. The circumstances in the combat zone are made even more precarious by water and electricity cuts and the climatic conditions that contribute to the emergence of a particularly difficult humanitarian situation. The Ukrainian authorities have declared a state of emergency in the city of Avdiivka and are trying to ensure a minimum supply of heating. It is essential that the parties respect the ceasefire in order to allow repairs to damaged infrastructure. The situation in Ukraine was discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on 6 February. The Member States condemned unreservedly the ceasefire violations and the use of heavy weapons and called for respect for the Minsk process. They stressed that the observance of the ceasefire, as provided for in the Minsk agreements, is a top priority and that it is imperative that the parties honour their commitments with a view to achieving a resolution of the conflict. New sanctions against Russia do not seem to me to be helpful at the moment. We must give the new administration in the US the opportunity to engage in dialogue with Moscow. Sanctions alone are not enough. Dialogue is also needed in order to achieve a lasting solution to this conflict. Russian interventions in Ukraine led to the suspension of NATO's practical and military cooperation with Moscow. Nevertheless, the Atlantic Alliance has developed a policy towards Russia based on both credible deterrence and dialogue. The NATO-Russia Council is a mechanism for the periodic exchange of information aimed at increasing mutual transparency and avoiding misunderstandings and escalation. The crisis in Ukraine is on the agenda of any dialogue with Russia in this Council. This was the case at the last meeting on 19 December. In the absence of consistent positions, the exchange of views was frank and demonstrated that such dialogue remained indispensable. I would simply add that during our last Foreign Affairs Council, my French and German counterparts recalled that the "Format Normandie", as it is called, would encourage contacts in the coming days. I hope that this will make it possible to make progress towards a ceasefire, but also to revive the demands for our Ukrainian counterparts to continue their reforms - particularly in the fight against corruption. While mechanisms have been developed, few cases have been brought to justice. It should be recalled that, in the implementation of the Minsk Agreements, the ceasefire is essential, but also that measures must be taken in Ukraine. We insist on this on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answers. Trump's geopolitical vision will probably influence the situation, given his recent statements!- Is that what you're saying? We'll see!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u84	Minister, you may be familiar with the case of Ahmadreza Djalali, an Iranian researcher at the Free University of Brussels. He wanted to visit his family in his homeland in April 2016 but was arrested by the local authorities. He spent more than seven months in isolation in prison. Meanwhile, he would have been sentenced to death after an undisclosed trial. It is not quite clear exactly what he is accused of, but Iran calls for reasons of national security and would blame Djalali for cooperating with scientists from so-called hostile states such as Israel or the United States. It is clear that Iran is following its nationals closely in the foreign academic environment. There is also the case of Hamid Babaei, a doctoral researcher at the University of Liège, who has been in an Iranian cell for almost four years because he would have refused to spy for the Iranian intelligence services. It is a good thing that the nuclear agreement leads and will lead to greater rapprochement and openness between Iran and the West. But that must also mean that we remain attentive to the difficult human rights situation in that country. I have three questions for you. Firstly, to the extent that your answer does not prevent a successful outcome in the Djalali and Babaei cases, what steps are you taking bilaterally and multilaterally in these two cases? Secondly, how does Belgium, the European Union and other actors place the issue of human rights on the table in their dialogue with Iran? Are there any reasons to think that Iran is willing to work on its human rights record? Thirdly, is it conceivable to link specifically the execution of the death penalty in Iran to further standardisation of political and trade relations with Europe? What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u85	Mr De Vriendt has already outlined the situation. With regard to Mr Djalali's death sentence, we have already heard better news, in particular that he would be given an earlier trial. That doesn't change the fact that he's been locked up in a solitary cell for the last seven months without being able to consult his lawyers without any contact. There are also 500 other people sentenced to death in Iran. The good news therefore needs to be put into perspective and context. Minister, we could read in the media that your department would contact the EU's diplomatic representation in Tehran to see what steps we can take. Has this already happened? What was the result of this? Will this condemnation prompt you to condemn once again clearly the use of the death penalty in the Iranian government? Which way will this happen? We know that you are a pertinent opponent of the death penalty. What steps can we take internationally to improve Iran's respect for human rights? Is there any thought, for example, of extending EU sanctions against Iran in relation to human rights? We read in the press that you, as Foreign Minister, are following things further. Is there any news we can and can know?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u86	Minister, the matter is now well-known. Last night, there was a report that no verdict has yet been reached. What exactly is the charge against Mr Djalali? What diplomatic steps have you or the Foreign Office already taken? What was the outcome of these demarches? What additional steps can you take? Can you also state the current state of play in the dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the news of Professor Djalali's disturbing case, last week I instructed my services in Tehran to contact both the EU representative in Iran and the Swedish and Italian fellow Members on the ground. After all, Professor Djalali has a permanent residence permit for Sweden, which slightly increases the consular capacity of that country. He worked mostly in Italy, where he was a teacher. For Iran, Mr Djalali is an Iranian. The country will not tolerate consular assistance. I myself raised this matter with my Swedish colleague on Monday morning in the margins of the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council. Our embassy in Tehran has also directly requested clarification from the Iranian authorities. The case of Hamid Babaei, which I raised at the highest level in Iran in the past, was also reiterated in those contacts. I can assure you that my services, both in Tehran and Brussels, will follow this matter very closely. As regards both the Swedish interlocutors and our ambassador, it was said that Mr Djalali has not yet been convicted. That was also the response in Iran. Belgium and the European Union address the human rights situation both in bilateral contacts and in multilateral contexts. For example, our country expressly supported the resolution on the human rights situation adopted by the UN General Assembly last December. In addition, our country always supports the resolution adopted every March by the Human Rights Council on the human rights situation in Iran. This resolution provides for the extension of the special rapporteur on the human rights situation in Iran. Belgium is therefore always taking part in the interactive debate with the special rapporteur to express our support for his work and to express our concern about the human rights situation in that country. Our country will, of course, do so again in March. I'm a strong opponent of the death penalty. As you know, there are EU guidelines on the death penalty which are being followed by both the European Union and its Member States. Finally, I would like to remind you that EU sanctions are already in force against Iran because of the human rights situation in the country. We can always look at an evaluation of the sanction regime. I have two or three more elements to add. Firstly, I have already expressed my very strong position on the death penalty in direct contact with my colleague Mr Zarif. It agreed to launch a bilateral dialogue in this context. We will continue these contacts with Iran with regard to the death penalty. We have always asked for the death penalty to be abolished or at least not to be applied. You know that there are several possibilities in this respect. Secondly, I have already said this to President Rohani during my contacts with Tehran. In the next few weeks, we may still have contacts in the same direction with the highest authorities in Iran. Thirdly, we also ask that a proper procedure be followed for Mr Djalali, with a genuine defence of Mr Djalali, with a normal process. I hope this will be the case. So far we have received information that there is no conviction yet, but well, we will follow evolution. I repeat, we are asking for the case to be dealt with correctly. The bottom line is, I don't have any real information. We are trying through various contacts to get more information on Iran's possible criticisms of Mr Djalali, but so far we do not have access to a file. Once again, we will organise a number of démarches and many different contacts in Brussels and in Tehran. I repeat, however, that we are trying to do so in cooperation with Sweden and perhaps with Italy. Mr Djalali has more contacts with these two countries, as he has a permanent residence permit for Sweden and a real job in Italy. I understand the reaction at the VUB. I have also seen this in Liège and with Mr Babaei and his partner in Brussels. However, we must carry out our actions directly against Iran in order to speak out against the death penalty. At a consular level, if that is possible, so far there has been a refusal from Iran....................................................................................................................................................................................... I have said that we have made contact with the European Union, in Brussels and in Tehran.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u88	Minister, I would like to ask you to continue the efforts that Belgium is making. You are right to stress that it is important that, in the worst case scenario, it can only come to a normal legal procedure which is partly public. In that case, I would like to ask that an observer be sent from the Belgian embassy so that we can follow this. A few months ago I went to Iran with the IPU Belgium. I have noticed that it is a rather complex society and that in different parts of that society there is an urge for more openness towards the West. The same applies in politics. It's all not that clear. That is why a further normalization of relations with Iran could perhaps be achieved in order to promote a dignified outcome of this kind, respect for human rights and so on. One last element just for consideration. It can be seen how the new American policy towards Iran will play a role in respect of different political opinions, human rights and so on. That might be something you could discuss with Trump if he came to Belgium after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer and for your efforts with your services. I understand that the EU will review human rights sanctions in April. I hope that you will take this with you if the situation in Iran has not improved, and that you will consider it when it comes to extending sanctions if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u90	For my part, Minister, I would also like to thank you for the overview you have given and for all the efforts that have been made and which certainly still have to be made in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u91	On 6 February 2017, Amnesty International published the report Human Slaughterhouse. This states that between 2011 and 2015, thirteen thousand prisoners were systematically killed in mass hanging in the military prison of Sednaya. Although the findings run from 2011 to 2015, Amnesty International has no reason to believe that this situation has not continued in 2016. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of that report? What's your analysis? Do you share my view that this is a crime against humanity in which Syrian citizens are regarded as opposition by President Assad's regime? What appropriate consequences do you have for this report at both Belgian, European and international level? What steps will you take within the EU and the UN, in particular the UN Human Rights Council in which Belgium currently has its seat, to address the findings of this report and the necessary consequences and follow-up? Do you know about other such situations in prisons in Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u92	I have taken note of this report and, of course, I share your deep concern about the human rights situation in Syria. You rightly speak of a crime against humanity. Therefore, since 2011, Belgium has supported all the resolutions adopted by the UN Human Rights Council on the human rights situation in Syria. The last resolution dates back to September 2016 and calls, inter alia, for the immediate access of an international monitoring body to all prisoners. That resolution also provides for the organisation of a high-level panel discussion on the human rights situation in Syria at the forthcoming session of the UN Human Rights Council in March. In addition, our country has supported the organisation of all the urgent sessions of the Council on Syria. The last emergency session dates back to October 2016 and examined the situation in Aleppo. It goes without saying that Belgium also supports the work of the Syria Commission of Inquiry which the UN Human Rights Council set up a few years ago. Belgium is always actively participating in the interactive dialogue with that Committee of Inquiry. Furthermore, Belgium organised a side event in September 2016 during an interministerial week at the United Nations in New York about the fight against impunity for the most gross crimes of international law committed in Syria. During that side event, Belgium once again called for the situation in Syria to be referred to the International Criminal Court and to strengthen international judicial cooperation in the fight against impunity. Finally, Belgium, together with Liechtenstein, is one of the driving forces behind the recent resolution of the United Nations General Assembly which provides for the establishment of an international, impartial and independent mechanism to assist international, regional and national courts in the detection and prosecution of those responsible for the most serious crimes of international law committed in Syria since March 2011. Belgium successfully mobilized its entire diplomatic network worldwide to convince the UN Member States to support the initiative. The resolution was finally adopted with 105 yes votes. Work is currently under way to make the mechanism operational. All these actions are part of the fight against impunity to which our country attaches great importance. With regard to the precise legal qualification of the crimes mentioned in the report, I will not express myself here, except as you do, with the reference to crimes against humanity, which is a correct reference. However, there is still some evidence to be gathered about this, not only about the prison in question but also about other prisons. I have always pointed out that it is very important now for a possible fight against impunity that this has been very important for several months and years to gather evidence. For example, during our side event in New York we had contact with Nadia Murad, a young girl from the Yezidic community. She was in Brussels some time ago. Her reasoning is the same. We must first gather a great deal of evidence in Iraq and Syria. On the basis of Amnesty International's report, it is very important to proceed with the collection of evidence in order to create a real possibility of sending those responsible to court. We are always prepared to work in this direction in cooperation with other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u93	Madam President, Minister, thank you for listing what has already been done in the past. We cannot ignore what happened there and what is in the report. That's hallucinating. We must certainly send out the message that we strongly condemn this situation. I support you when you say that it would be good to collect evidence with other countries and then give a very clear signal. This really seems to me to be a crime against humanity, against which action must be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u94	Madam President, Minister, in December 2016, the Social Democratic PSD won the parliamentary elections in Romania. Just a month later, two weeks ago, on 31 January, the new Romanian government adopted an emergency decree that eased anti-corruption rules for politicians in the country by providing for prison sentences only for various forms of abuse of power when the abuse resulted in more than EUR 44 000. The European Commission rightly reprimanded the Romanian Government about this emergency decree. There was a massive protest, demanding the resignation of the government. The massive protest continues, even after the withdrawal of the proposal. Mr Minister, I have a few questions about this situation. Not long ago, in a report, the European Commission praised the fight against corruption in Romania. Among other things, this emergency decree has clearly changed the situation. What is the state of play in the country with regard to the fight against corruption? How do you analyse this development in Romania? What action should be taken on this within the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u95	Madam President, Mr Van Peteghem, the European Commission's recently published analysis in the framework of the cooperation and verification mechanism indeed confirms Romania's progress in strengthening the rule of law and combating corruption in the ten years since accession to the European Union, even though problems were reported, including the procedure for the waiver of parliamentary immunity. Romania is in the implementation phase, following important legislative and constitutional reforms. However, the European Commission's report was finalised prior to the introduction of the urgent decrees in question by the Minister of Justice, a decree containing, inter alia, a list of convictions that can benefit from grace and another decree amending articles in the penal code, including on abuse of power. We must recognise that such urgent decrees are putting considerable pressure on the positive developments of recent years, both in substance and in form. The mass civil protests also show the resilience of civil society. The Commission's report is currently being discussed with Member States in an ad hoc working group with a view to conclusions of the General Affairs Council of 7 March 2017. In the current context, it would seem premature to envisage an end to the cooperation and verification mechanism in the long term. Moreover, the Eurobarometer for Romania shows that the population supports this mechanism. Moreover, support for Romanian EU membership remains very strong. Our country will therefore plead within the Council for a further rigorous follow-up of the various benchmarks of the Commission and for the Romanian Government to have no prospect of ending these evaluations. The aim of the cooperation and verification mechanism is to ultimately provide an equivalent level of justice for all EU citizens and to put an end to such impunity. In February 2016, I made a proposal to the General Affairs Council for an annual review of the rule of law in all European Member States. I think this is the only solution to a process without discrimination. We do not always have to wait for a problem in some Member State to do something. A few years ago there were discussions with Hungary and now with Poland. We are now seeing this evolution in Romania. I think it is necessary to continue the implementation of a genuine peer review on values, the rule of law and individual rights. It is not right to do this only for the budgets and not for human rights. We are far from an agreement. I was in contact with 14 Member States and the European Parliament on Monday to go in the same direction. With regard to Romania, we must be strong and try to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I support your proposal from the peer review so that the evaluation of the legal system and the rule of law can take place not only in some specific Member States but in each Member State. I hope that further steps can be taken in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Onkelinx's 16503 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u98	Madam President, Minister, 11.11.11, Brotherly Delen and Fair Fun published last week a report on the investment of Belgian banks in controversial mining companies for around EUR 36 billion between 2011 and 2016. Such practices can be better followed by policies, including the publication and implementation of the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan. On a previous question of 13 January 2016 on the state of play, you indicated that the final version would be submitted to the government in the spring of 2016. However, this plan has still not been approved by the competent governments. What is the state of play for the National Action Plan Business and Human Rights? When do you plan to submit the final plan to the government? Can you explain how the implementation of the plan will be implemented in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u99	Madam President, Mr Van Peteghem, thank you very much for your question. For me, this is an opportunity to give an update on the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan. I can confirm that the federal part of the national action plan has already been completed. We have scheduled a meeting with the relevant Cabinets at Community and Regional level in the coming week, with the aim of adding the latest updated version of the actions to be submitted for the National Action Plan from their respective powers. We hope to be able to conclude this process before the summer. As far as the implementation of the national action plan is concerned, I can already tell you that a table is being drawn up clearly identifying the actors responsible for each action. It is very important to ask for real responsibility from all actors in this respect. This table will serve as a basis for the annual review of the implementation of the Action Plan by the Working Group on Social Responsibility of Organisations of the Interdepartmental Committee on Sustainable Development. On the basis of this evaluation, a prior report will be prepared and published on the website of belgia.be. This report will also be attached to the ICDO Annual Report, i.e. the Interdepartmental Committee on Sustainable Development, which will be transferred to the Government, Parliament and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. It will also be forwarded for information to the other Advisory Councils involved in the consultation on this National Action Plan. Three years after the adoption of the National Action Plan, we intend to provide for an evaluation and implementation of the actions, in consultation with stakeholders. On the basis of this evaluation, it may be decided to update the Action Plan. We will now try to complete the work together with the Communities and the Regions for the summer. Normally, it will then be possible to have a genuine national action plan, not only with federal measures, but also with all possible actions by the Communities and the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic589x.u100	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply and look forward to the implementation of this national action plan.
