ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u2	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, the position of the Secretary of State, but also of the many colleagues who have already intervened, is that it is actually a question of transposing European legislation, putting existing practices into law and making a number of technical changes. If so, Mr Secretary of State, I think you could have talked more and better with stakeholders and worked together. This does not mean, therefore, that you must accept and approve everything, but that you could have provided a broader social basis for the legislative changes. However, I would also like to say that you have shown a great deal of patience. We're already working from spring to spring. I honestly didn't expect you to be so patient. I'm trying to be intellectually honest. I think that's very important in politics. These are two draft laws that will become law. In fact, they are instruments to achieve a finality, an objective, concretely: a humane asylum policy. Such a humane asylum policy has to do with respect for human rights and, above all, helping people who are in danger and who have to flee. That must be done in a humane way. I stress this because I see that some people may think that it is possible to achieve other objectives. I often experience that nuanced thinking in this dossier is almost not tolerated. Either one is pushed in one corner, or in the other. We are not opposed to rapid asylum procedures. We want refugees to know where they stand very quickly. Can they stay or can they not stay? If they can stay, they have a right to integration and should be supported. If they cannot stay, they must be able to be sent back humanely. However, I do not think that laws should be used to prove how many people can be sent back quickly on the basis of a number of data and to provide high returns. Even worse, it could also be said that there is a good chance of being locked up and that it is therefore better not to apply for asylum in Belgium. I'd like to warn you about that. These laws can also be used to put emphasis on reception in closed centres and a broad interpretation of the element "risk of hiding" which would allow the organisation of raids and deportations in principle. I'm running a little short right now, but I want to be clear about it. Our group will not accept that a new reality would be created by knocking on refugees and illegal immigrants. That's obvious. I would also like to highlight a number of positive aspects in the draft legislation. I have already mentioned that it is a good thing that it is possible to work quickly and efficiently and that an asylum seeker is quickly made clear. The questionnaire and other methods for identifying special needs are also good tools. A number of opportunities have also been created for children and minors to apply for a hearing right, which is good. I only have a major problem with the fact that these possibilities are not registered in the law, but are included in the introduction or explanation. They were also discussed during the meeting in the committee. Less positive is the fact that I cannot always properly assess what the Secretary of State is planning, for example in the area of multiple applications. There is a particularly negative view of the problems of refugees in this respect. It is also stated that there will be a strong expansion of the closed centres. That could also indicate massive expulsions. That is why the risk of hiding, about which I shall say a little more, is a very broad criterion. 12 elements are listed in this respect. In the end, however, it is always people who have to decide about other people. How are they trained and how are decisions controlled? One of the objectives, in particular the third objective, is, in addition to the procedures and the simplification of asylum procedures, to combat abuse. For the sake of clarity and in order not to have a black and white debate, I would also like to point out that our group is also opposed to abuses. We are, for the record...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u4	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, three points need to be clarified. You have questions about the way in which the draft law provides for multiple asylum applications. There is one challenge in terms of the whole asylum procedure. Those are like multiple asylum applications. Belgium is almost Europe's champion in the field of multiple asylum applications. In few European countries there are more multiple applications for asylum than in Belgium, and that situation has existed for many years. We therefore decided at that time, just after Mr Dewael's term of office, to limit the right of reception in the case of multiple applications for asylum. Those who apply for a second asylum are still entitled to asylum, but then it will stop unless the application for asylum is more justified and declared admissible. In this philosophy, we will continue with the draft law now before us. I don't think we're going overboard at all. After all, the new asylum procedure directive is being debated at European level at the moment, and we are actually a little late with this transposition, and that new directive will be much stricter on multiple asylum applications. We note that many of the multiple asylum applications are simply used to further exploit the rights, as they leave the applicant in the process. Mrs De Coninck, you are also politically active in Antwerp and you have gained a lot of experience in this area. I think you know what it means when several procedures are put together. What's the point of these multiple applications if we know the answer's gonna be njet after all? The opportunity to obtain a positive opinion from the CGVS after a tenth or even thirty asylum applications is virtually zero. You say that it can never be the intention to show off massively. You will notice this because the government increases the return budget every time. Do we choose to point out massively? That terminology sounds pretty firm. Should the repatriation rates of voluntary return preferably be voluntary, which is cheaper and more sustainable and forced return higher? Yes. Mr Dewael once achieved 17 000 repatriations. However, the European Union was smaller at that time, which also led to many expulsions to non-Schengen countries. We're not getting that number these days. In the end, I think it would be a sound political principle to say that the annual number of asylum applications and the number of expulsions, whether voluntary or forced, should be more or less balanced. However, I do not think that, apart from Mr Dewael, any minister or secretary of state in Belgian history has ever achieved that. When Mr Dewael took up this position, the context was different: there had also been a major asylum crisis and a lot of work was being done on repatriation, with very good cooperation with the police forces in Brunat, which resulted in good figures. Are we gonna get those numbers now? No. There is 35% more budget. This will hopefully be approved by the committee next week. The European Commission is taking over more and more funds from repatriations. Mr Avramopoulos and Mr Juncker want more and more expulsions. They even want to pay the tickets to Morocco and Algeria. Frontex pays back everything. The European Commission has changed its philosophy completely. They want more expulsions. That's not a problem for me. We will forward the invoice. However, that remains very difficult. Are we going for mass expulsions? I think that's a punishment word. Are we going for more expulsions from people who have been living in our cities for a very long time and sometimes also for a short time in illegality? Antwerp, among other things, is faced with a real problem in this area. Yeah, I can really confirm this. Is this bill a step in the right direction? Yes. Are we going to organize big raids? Are we going to organize raffles, as we read in the great nazifolder of écolo j? No, we're not gonna do that. Are we going to try to deal with matters properly with our police forces and the mayor of the city of Brussels when there is a problem of illegality? Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. Is that with the support of the European Commission and in line with the European directive? Yes. Mass expulsion is a very punitive word, but we are moving in the right direction step by step. In this way, we want to balance the influx and outflow in this country, especially in the field of illegality. That is absolutely the ambition of this government. I can certainly confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I am happy to hear you say it and I am not against tackling problems either. The only thing bothers me a little is this. For me, an asylum procedure is a procedure that gives people who are on the run a fair chance to have a right of residence. I can't tell in advance if this is fifty-fifty. Are there 50 % cheaters and 50 % justified applicants? I can't estimate that in advance. It may well be that the ratio is 80/20, or vice versa. I am concerned by your statement, in the sense that you are actually saying that figures must be obtained. No, we don't have to get numbers. We must treat dossiers in a quality manner with respect for legislation and take decisions with honour and conscience. This may mean that there is a need for paperwork, but that may also mean that those concerned are returned. The legislation must guarantee that. You say that the Commissioner-General does that, but you are Secretary of State for something, you work in a context and these men or women adapt to that in practice. You have to be careful when you say you want to get numbers. Mr Dewael has achieved 17 000, which you seem to see as a success. It may be a success, but I think this is a reverse argument. Again, I'm not against working fast and correctly either. As regards the obligation to cooperate, as I said just now, we obviously need to cooperate when applying for asylum. Those concerned want residence documents, and I believe that those who think it right want to provide as much information as possible to support their dossier. There could be blockages in there, around homosexuality, and maybe around other things. I hope that those who have to assess this are well trained and able to deal with it. I therefore call for people with experience to be involved in these matters, I mean life experience, because in reality I find that it is often very young people who deal with these dossiers. That is why we have tabled an amendment to write in the text, until the Royal Decree has been reached, that the refusal is recorded but that it is not considered negative in itself. I would like to say the following, Mr Secretary of State. You're actually asking us for a lot of trust. I think trust is very important in politics and in society. I'd like to give you that confidence, too. But let us be honest, you are not always the person who gives such confidence to the refugees as to whether they are sincere. You may do so, but the words you use in the approach often do not show that. Trust questions, okay, but try trusting me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u6	Mrs De Coninck, you are right to make a point when you talk about the feasibility of the article as long as there is no royal decision. That was not raised in committee. No question was asked about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u7	That is in the explanatory statement to the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u8	Then I must have missed that, which I doubt. Mr Hellings and Mr Dewinter did not mention this immediately. I would like to confirm in this plenary session that until there is a royal decision, there is no feasibility of the article, to say that I always try to deal constructively with the opposition's input.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u9	Well, that's one guarantee, isn't it? Trust has been given. We already know the concept of safe country of origin and now we also know the concept of safe third country. You say clearly that you want to look at this case on a case-by-case basis and that you do not want to list it. If that is well argued, then that is not a problem for me. But this is also a question of terrorism and security, if one thinks a little further about sending someone back to a third country, one has to consider to what extent the links with that third country are sustainable. Has he just passed through Turkey, for example, or has he had family there, has he been there for a day or a year? That needs to be looked at carefully. I also think the element of reciprocity is very important. If you send a person back to a third country, I think that country should confirm that we know that we are sending him back, that he is welcome there and/or that he can have access to an asylum procedure that will be conducted in a decent manner. I stress this because there are situations where people are not allowed to stay here and are sent back to a country where they are not welcome, which means that they will end up in some sort of no-man's-land, which is not a good thing in the long term, not even for safety. We need to know where people are and what state they are in. So reciprocity is a very important element. We have also tabled an amendment on detention. Just so we're clear, I don't want to turn this into a black and white debate. There must be a range of possibilities and detention must really be the last option. In some cases, it may be necessary to lock people up. I believe, however, that there is absolutely no need to lock up children. I don't think you're for that either. After all, detention is not efficient, leaves injuries and costs a lot of money. You said in committee that you wanted to investigate that. There are also pilot projects and experiments abroad. We need to consider how detention in closed centres can be avoided. We must also look for other formulas in order to be able to follow people before they are evicted from the country in order to prevent them from going into hiding. Communication is an important element in this respect. As far as the second draft law is concerned, you will reduce the number of days to appeal from 15 to 10 days. Moreover, it is calendar days and not working days. I know it's an exceptional period, but 10 calendar days between Christmas and New Year to find a lawyer and draw up files is actually too short. I don't think that's balanced. We have supported an amendment by Mrs Poncelet, if I am not mistaken, to make it at least working days instead of calendar days. Finally, another element that I did not include in the committee I believe that the deployment of people and the whole policy on this subject requires regular evaluation or monitoring. That is not to criticise, but actually to support, to feel that this policy is viewed from different perspectives. As far as our voting behaviour is concerned, we will abstain from voting on the first draft law and we will vote against the second draft law, particularly in view of the limited time available to appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, a first thought: it is true that many of these two pieces of legislation transpose European directives which have to be transposed within a time limit which, for some, has been exceeded. But you are also legislating, Mr Secretary of State, where the European Commission or Europe does not oblige you to do so. I will take the example of a safe third country; Article 38 of the directive, which defines what a safe third country is, does not ask you to define what a safe third country is. It's optional, but you've decided to legislate on it. I will not go back to what has been discussed at length in committee and which has been pointed out by Mr Kir, that speeding up the processing period will obviously cause a difficulty in filing a genuine remedy, the so-called "effective" remedy. But I will, of course, focus on the advice of the Privacy Commission, which I have sought and which, from the very beginning, has been deeply bothering me. Again, Mr Secretary of State, electronic search is not a transposition of one of the directives that you must apply in Belgian law. Electronic search is something that is provided for in the Code of Criminal Investigation. In its opinion, the Privacy Commission is very clear: it recalls the conditions under which a police officer, a magistrate, can enter an electronic system and verify the statements of a person suspected of committing a serious crime. It is essential, in the world in which we live, that criminals can be subjected to this kind of control. A criminal may be a Belgian citizen, he may be a foreign citizen legally residing in Belgium and he may be a foreign citizen residing illegally in Belgium. Anyone in the national territory must be able to be held accountable if he is suspected of committing a crime, a fortiori one of the most serious crimes. I would remind you, Secretary of State, that in response to one of my questions, you were saying – about those asylum seekers who have been reported for radicalism – that at this stage, people have been reported as potentially radicalised but that none, to date, have been charged with terrorism. I touch wood and I hope, of course, that this will never happen! It is clear that the electronic search, under the Code of Criminal Investigation, is applicable to an asylum-seeker, to a person illegally staying in our territory, according to the existing law. If it is suspected that someone will commit an irreparable act, a fortiori a terrorist act, it may be the subject of an electronic search by a police officer or a magistrate. Article 10, referred to here, introduces the possibility of a digital search of the asylum-seeker. Attention, of course, it's not automatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u11	Mr Hellings, I can only repeat that you have asked for the opinion of the Privacy Commission, a committee which I respect very much. You have used your right as a parliamentarian, which I congratulate you on. But your interpretation is very strict. Indeed, in your opinion, social networks cannot be used to identify an asylum seeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u12	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u13	You say that this is only possible in the context of a judicial investigation, when, for example, there are indications of radicalism, etc. This is an honest position, but it does not correspond to practices in Europe. For example, this does not correspond to what the Greens are doing in Sweden. I know that there are not many governments in which the Greens participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u15	You'll have to get used to it, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u16	In Sweden, for example, the Greens agree to use this possibility. The possibility exists and, in my view, it must be able to be used. I know that referring to the fact that the Greens in Sweden share this view is not a strong argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u18	Sweden is Sweden. I understand you. Mr Cheron, don't get excited. I would just like to say the following about the interpretation of the European directive. The interpretation of the European directive, for European governments, is that all social networks and also gsms can be used for the identification, not of a criminal asylum seeker, but of all asylum seekers. Not only those who are potentially radicalised, but all asylum seekers. This is a standardised European practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, there is a difference in proportionality between going to an asylum seeker's public Facebook page to see what he's talking about, what he's doing, what he's proposing himself and demanding, because it's about that, an asylum seeker to open his electronic devices, where, because of the evolution of our digital society in particular, most of his privacy: with whom does he live? Who does he have a relationship with? What's he doing? The money he transfers, etc. In fact, this electronic search, you had the idea in Denmark in the summer of 2016. We remember at the time your various speeches in the media. You had invited journalists to come to Denmark in the summer of 2016 and you had seen how effective it was for you to offer asylum services in Belgium the same opportunities as those visibly offered in Denmark. Why? "Between 60 and 70 per cent of asylum seekers lie about an aspect of their identity, whether it is their name, age, journey or country of origin." Those are the exact words you said at the time. These words, Secretary of State, remain and they are on a number of websites in Dutch and French. I checked myself before going up to this rostrum. What you said here asked me for a statistical check because we do not legislate on sand. We're legislating on statistics. I have asked you several times the written question of what nationality fraud statistics have been collected in Belgium in recent years. You first told me that there was no percentage but that your sentence was based on a summary estimate. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that today a fundamental right, that of privacy, which is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the Belgian Constitution, can be called into question on the basis of a summary estimate. Beyond the fact that it is a funny way of legislating, it is for me the basis of a possible recourse from anyone to the Constitutional Court. Secretary of State, on the occasion of the various debates we have had in committee with you, but also with Mr. Van den Bulck, Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, I asked him this question. And he replied that there were no statistics on nationality fraud. I want to tell you here that beyond the fact that you are legislating to address a problem that does not arise and is not statistically recorded in society, you have spread to a whole public – asylum seekers – a suspicion, a doubt, an insult: that is, they would be liars. But they are not; they are not statistically proven. On the other hand, pretending that 60-70% of asylum seekers lie is a lie. And that lie stays. In this parliamentary forum, we must be able to say that no, that is not true: 60-70% of asylum seekers do not lie. It is one of the collateral damage to this bill that will be voted by the majority: it has a stain, a dirt. There is absolutely no evidence of fraud. What a contrast, though! Five hours ago, Mr Gilkinet complained to your colleague Van Overtveldt about the lack of legislative work, despite the large number of leaks – Panama Papers, Paradise Papers, etc. We are witnessing a phenomenon of tax fraud on a very large scale, involving Belgian companies at the highest level – verified and over-verified, on which a consortium of European journalists investigates by providing evidence on a daily basis, commissions of inquiry are established, evidence is brought – but the government does not legislate. Here, however, there are no problems, no statistics establish the existence of nationality frauds, and yet we are legislating. What a double standard! It's completely incomprehensible. When a law is drafted, it is done on the basis of a fact, which is statistically measured by the agencies responsible for the phenomenon in question. In this case, you legislate on sand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u20	Mr Hellings, we have discussed statistics several times. I understand. Intellectually you score a point. You're saying I said something. But I take care of everything I've said. I have many contacts with CGRA protection officers, the Foreign Office and all the experts. I am a Secretary of State and I am informed by my officials. You say it's necessary to have statistics. You quoted me correctly. Thank you. I'm going to ask for statistics on incorrect elements, and we'll see in one, two or three years. I'm going to ask Mr. Roosemont, Mr. Van den Bulck and the heads of my administrations to keep statistics on fraudulent or potentially fraudulent elements, the route they took to come to Europe, their asylum journey. It's necessary. But it is not because there are no statistics on the phenomenon that it does not exist. I understand your request. We'll talk about it again in committee. I am sure that with your tenacity, we will return. I suspect you will discuss this further in committee. I will ask my administration to keep up with the statistics so that we can have that debate there and then I will be able to state clearly what is going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u21	Mr Hellings, I do not usually interrupt matters that I have not intervened on in committee, but I think you have come here to tell me that we are not doing any legislative work in the area of tax fraud. That's pretty much the strategy of Ecolo-Green, trying to create the Texas of the 18th or 19th century and making everyone think that it's all bad here, that there's no legislative work going on, that we're just there for the rich and that we're not making laws for justice but just for the lobby that suits us. I would like to make it a habit of intervening on this more often, because I find it reprehensible how you describe society, how you completely undermine legislative work. I don't think so. If you want to tell these things at home or in your pub, you should, but this is not a pub, this is a Parliament, and we have a lot of serious people here. There are a lot of serious people here who take the legislative law to heart in all possible areas and want to maintain the just society in which we live. If you want to undermine that work every time, that's your problem, but I don't want to be addressed like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u22	Mr President, on principle, Mr Hellings obviously does not need me to defend himself. Simply, a parliamentarian is in the gallery and develops arguments of a legal and political nature and is told that here, we are not at the café. No, I don't! We're in parliament and he still has the right to say what he thinks. I ask you for a minimum of respect!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u23	Mr Hellings, you repeat your point of view in committee. I find it very intellectually unfair to build a reasoning on the fact that there are no statistics available and the fact that this would not occur. In our society, in our reality, we can empirically determine when things occur, and there can be witness statements in which people offer themselves to tell things in confidence or not. So it doesn't mean that if there is no statistics, the fact doesn't exist. One of the many parliamentary matters we can do here is ask for figures in written questions. The answer is very often: we do not have any figures at the moment, so we cannot provide you with that information. However, this does not mean that certain facts do not arise. The government just doesn't have the figures. You must not decide that the measure must not be implemented or that you only want to remedy matters that are identified by the civil service itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u24	Mr President, I would like to respond to what Mr Laaouej and Mr Hellings have to say. The discussion is about the assessment of people. The statistics are not always available, but everyone knows the phenomena. What Mr Hellings is saying here is café talk. Mr Laaouej, we have met on Panama Papers for one and a half years. We have done thorough and serious work. We have made recommendations. Saying that we have not done any serious work for a year and a half, led by Mr Laaouej and together with Mr Gilkinet, I find cafe talk. To say that we let the fraudsters go and catch the refugees, that really is left-wing populism. Yes, Mrs. Kitir, that's left-wing populism. Saying that we do nothing against the fraudsters and want to catch the refugees is a language I absolutely cannot appreciate, Mr Calvo. As Mr Van de Velde says, we have still not come down to the bar level here. We've done some serious work. I do not accept Mr Hellings taking down our work on a blue Monday, or rather a green Thursday night.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u25	Several people are asking for the floor. Mr. Kir?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u26	I think Mr Hellings did a very good demonstration earlier, and I congratulate him on that. His words may have exceeded his mind when he spoke of tax fraud, I think he overstated it a little. On the other hand, the Secretary of State has made injuring remarks towards the people we are talking about. He talked about 60 to 70 percent of people lying. Our colleague demonstrated that it was a lie. He doesn't dispute it! And today he says that, basically, we should perhaps make sure that we have statistics. Colleagues, let's go back to most of our work! This is the transposition of a directive that should be balanced, with a humane and firm policy towards asylum seekers. But what we are being offered here is a very negative policy. I said earlier: it is a policy that proposes vague criteria and systematically presents things in a negative way. It focuses on abuses, with a desire to lock up, to return. That is what we denounce! We do not say that we must not have a firm policy. No one said that! But she must be human. And she must present asylum seekers, Mr. Pivin, in a balanced manner. There's no, there's no balance here! I'm not the one saying it! It is the opinion and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, an independent body that guides State policy, and the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. They're the ones who say it, not us! Mr. Franken, where are your figures on fraudsters? Why do you constantly present asylum seekers in this way? My colleague has already demonstrated your policy. Do you remember what you said earlier, Mr. Franken? You said that this government's absolute ambition was expulsion. These are the words you used in your answer. Numbers! Reaching numbers! That's deplorable! But, let's go back to the essence of this bill, a bill that is harmful to asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u27	I will not intervene in substance, because my colleague Mr Hellings, who knows the case better, does it better than I do. I fully trust him in the continuation of his debate. I would like to make two appeals in relation to the form of the statements that have been exchanged: the first to the attention of Mr. Van Rompuy, so that he takes the time to reread, with rested head, the exchanges and reaction (which is not ours) as to the subject on coffee. You will read this again at your ease and we will do the same. The second is a request for your attention, Mr. President. When you review the proceedings and before the report is circulated, I would like you to make use of your right to delete passages that were not appropriate in this chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u28	Mr Van de Velde, I found your plea very appealing. I'm very impressed by it. It sounded like a socialist. In fact, I'd like to explain clearly why I'm saying that. Here, a number of years ago, social problems were systematically said: one must show courage, that is simple, that is quickly decided. Now I constantly hear arguments from the reasoning that it is all very complex and nuanced and one has to look at the problems in a different way. So there's progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u29	Mr President, I shall reply to the Secretary of State and to Mr Vermeulen, the chairman of our committee. Today, therefore, there is a clear step forward: the Secretary of State announces that he will finally implement the measures necessary to obtain statistics for the purpose of analysing in depth the phenomenon of fraud on nationality, on the journey, etc., which you had specified in the summer of 2016. Now, in this bill, we're doing everything backwards! We are asking for statistics after the vote, we are asking for the opinion of the UN High Representative for Refugees after the vote in committee and before the vote in plenary, and we are asking for the opinion of the Committee on the Protection of Privacy and, possibly, an input from your colleague in charge of privacy, because Ecolo-Groen also had the idea of asking for an opinion from the Committee on Privacy. It's very happy to hear that you're going to work on statistics on nationality fraud. Now I'm answering Mr. Vermeulen. Mr Vermeulen, there are already statistics on nationality fraud at Frontex. And Frontex is not, a priori, a European body that gives the Greens the sweetest eyes. Frontex estimates that citizenship fraud in Turkey, for most Syrian refugees, oscillates around 15 per cent. They are people who come from Syria and pretend to be Syrians, while they are Palestinian, Egyptian, or otherwise. That's the only figure in an official instance I found at this point. It is very different to legislate, because there is a fraud of 60-70% and a fraud of 15%. It is entirely justified to take an exceptionally intrusive measure for privacy when fraud is massive; it is much less so when fraud is almost anecdotal. That's what I'm telling you! For me, this measure is disproportionate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u30	Mr Hellings, the words "tax fraud" are magical words in Parliament. In the case of a majority with a lot of left-wing opposition, the words "fiscal fraud" are magical words, in the reverse case the words "social fraud" are magical words. I have already heard interesting statements about tax fraud committed by people who have not eaten much cheese from asylum legislation. We can have all the debates together. Every debate can talk about everything, and the fight against tax fraud is particularly relevant and interesting, but I personally will not get involved, because I am not an expert. I do know something about the fraud in the asylum system. If you say that 15% fraud in Syrian asylum applications is the only figure you know, then I must tell you that I have not seen these figures personally. However, I believe you immediately when you say that these are the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u32	Of Frontex, yes, but in general 98% of Syrians are recognised as refugees. There is very little motivation to give a lie or falsehood in the asylum story. One must simply say that one is a Syrian, so to speak, of any region, even Damascus or the secure north of the country, where President Assad and his troops still have a lot of power over Syrian territory, and now, of course, more and more, then one is recognised as a refugee. It is not even a question of subsidiary protection, they are all recognised refugees. In any case, there is less fraud among Syrians, but I would like to repeat once again that I am going to see my top officials on Monday morning, as every Monday at 8.00 a.m. at the top of my administration, asking me to do better and keep up with those figures. This applies to every element of fraud, Mr Kir, not only about identity, but also about the travel route or the first country of entry into Europe. I was correctly quoted by Mr Hellings, for which I am grateful, because I have often been quoted wrongly in the past. I'll ask my administration to keep up with those cases. It would also be good if Frontex kept up with those figures. However, I can tell you that the Syrians are a particularly irrelevant or poorly comparable population. In Belgian asylum statistics, Syria is still an important country, but not the most important. There are many more asylum applications from other people than Syrians. We'll keep up. We will look into it and we will discuss it further in committee. I take full responsibility for everything I have said on this point. Mr Kir, am I saying that all asylum seekers are fraudsters? You would like me to believe that I always postulate that, but that is absolutely not right. I never raised that, and I never will. However, there are many untruths throughout the asylum system. I'll stick with that. I'm not taking back a word of that either. That's what my experts tell me. Those are people who are not bad with the asylum seekers. That is not the case at all. These are ground workers and people working on the ground every day for asylum seekers. However, there are many falsehoods and falsehoods in the asylum stories. That's the truth, too. That is why the draft law before us is an important step forward. I have always said the following in committee. For example, a real asylum seeker is a Syrian who is really on the run. He couldn't bring his identity papers because he suddenly had to run, because he lost them on the boat on the way or because they were taken away by the smugglers. After all, there is a great deal of corruption and there are terrible atrocities in that process. A real Syrian who is an asylum seeker is filing an asylum application. Then what's the problem, telling you who he is, where he came from and how he got here? I don't see the problem. After all, he's protected. So what's the problem? We're asking him to help us, to help him. We ask him to tell us who he is, what his name is and where he came from. Then he'll be protected. Whether he is Afghan, Syrian or Iraqi, we ask him to help us, to help him. What the hell is the problem with that? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for allowing me to bounce back on the second part of what I wanted to say to you and our colleagues. The heart of the problem here is consent. Privacy is a fundamental right. You can say yourself: "I give you the content of my phone, my Facebook profile or any other item that contains personal data." You can do this if you give your consent. And there, the Privacy Commission, as well as UNHCR, defines consent. There are two basic texts. There is the Privacy Act, dated December 8, 1992, which runs until May 2018. After that, there will be a regulation on the protection of personal data which will enter into force immediately in Belgian law. In fact, Mr. De Backer is working on this and other legislation that complements this regulation. I will read what is consent according to the law that applies today in Belgium. It is "any free, informed and specific expression of will by which the data subject agrees to the processing of personal data concerning him or her". I repeat: "manifestation of free, informed and specific will". However, in the text itself, it is written between pages 34 and 36 "that a refusal of cooperation on the part of the asylum-seeker will be considered by the CGRA as an indication unfavourable to the application filed". How, then, do you consider, Mr. Secretary of State, that consent is free and informed, knowing that – this is what the Privacy Commission repeats – the person concerned is in a situation of submission in his application in relation to CGRA collaborators? That is the heart of the problem. As you said, these people are in difficult situations. They have lost their papers and have sometimes experienced extremely painful things to relive or to which it is difficult to rethink. These people find themselves facing someone who can eventually give them absolute sesame, namely asylum. These people are in a situation of trouble, difficulty and the request that will be made to open their gsm will not be the result of free consent. This is serious because you have to submit to the future regulation that will come into force on May 24, 2018, so tomorrow. And he says that there is no consent if the person concerned "does not have a genuine freedom of choice or is not in a position to refuse or withdraw his consent without prejudice". If you refuse to offer your gsm to CGRA officials because you do not really want them to discover that you are homosexual or that you have several women – many reasons have been put forward, earlier, by Mrs De Coninck – because these are personal data, this will be considered a negative indication for the continuation of the procedure. That's about the privacy part. We're coming to the end of a process, although I hope it's not quite the end. What is quite incredible in this story, Secretary of State, is that the legislation as you propose it today does not respect fundamental rights. This has been recognized by international bodies, namely UNHCR, the most qualified international body to give you an opinion and the Privacy Commission, the most qualified national body to give you a privacy opinion, which will soon be transformed into a data protection authority. Mr Secretary of State, by the way, I thank you for the recognition of the parliamentary work provided and for the conviviality of today's debates. It changes us! However, one could have expected a colleague of the majority – N-VA or CD&V – to introduce an amendment, as the opposition did, taking into account the fundamental remarks made by UNHCR and the Privacy Commission, which was not the case. The only possibility that will be ours, the only possibility for those who want to fight this law will be to file an appeal before the Constitutional Court, as was the case for your Mammouth law passed in February 2017 which has already been the subject of three appeals. That's too bad! Indeed, the many debates we have had since last summer should have allowed legislation to be drawn up more in line with our fundamental rights. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude with a general reflection. We discussed trade agreements at length a year and a half ago. It is obvious that we are entering a world that is experiencing the generalization of physical means of communication (trains, cars, aircraft), but also electronic. I do not have to go back to the generalisation of the internet and social networks. We have entered a world where goods, goods and capital – we see it with the tax evasion scandals we were talking about earlier – but also women and men travel freely around the world. It's a fact: today, we take the plane as we took the bus in the sixties. We need to be able to think about a framework that is fair, efficient and that allows the flow of people around the world as well as capital. Why is it so easy for a Belgian to invest in the third world and so difficult, for example, for a third-world student to come to Belgium? We must at some point ask ourselves why what is true for capital and goods is not true for men and women. Of course, we must not open all borders. I'm not saying that. But let us open our minds by telling us that if people are travelling today, it is because it is technically possible to fly and come to a European country. Today, I think that people who cheat by placing capital have far more advantages than people who just come here to find a better future and, a fortiori, to escape the war when it comes to Syrians or Sudanese.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u34	Mr Hellings, you are having a very consistent intellectual debate on migration on the left, which I can taste. It's not my line, you know that. That's perfectly intellectually defendable. I have no problem with that, quite the contrary. That's interesting. We have already had a lot of discussions in the committee at a correct level, on how to properly monitor migratory flows. I'll never say that you want to let everyone in. I'll never say that for you all the fraudsters can come in. I never said that. You're not saying I'm saying everyone's a fraud. Mr Kir says that, but I haven't heard that from you. You say that we should be able to think more about student and labour migration and open up a part of our borders. That's what's gonna happen. As regards student and labour migration, since the sixth state reform, to which your party has been particularly active, the Länder have been responsible for the visa criteria for students and migrant workers, Mr Cheron. There are also more and more foreign students. If a student enrolls in a university or college, private or public, and meets the conditions, he will receive a student visa. So I do not immediately see the connection with the asylum dossier. Asylum is about people on the run, students are a very different category. We must try to conduct the debate hygienically, without mixing issues such as student migration, labour migration and asylum. I'm Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Many people ask me why I am not just Secretary of State for Migration, because asylum is also migration. However, Asylum concerns international protection law. That is of a totally different order, because based on the Geneva Convention and international directives, such as student migration, labour migration and family reunification. In this sense, I totally fail to see the relevance of including student migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, it was a general reflection on the fact that everyone is moving today. The fact is that today you have cast reproach on this category of human beings, that is, asylum seekers, saying one day that 60-70% of them were lying. We are going to vote today and we are coming to the end of this process of what you wanted to legislate. Today, we live in a world where goods, goods, capital and men and women are moving. We are in a globalized world. The way you have today to restrict migratory flows is based on a lie. No, 60-70% of asylum seekers do not lie! You don't have the proof! Mr President, that is why our group will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, my group would like first of all to look at the bad working conditions in committee. You forced us to do things backwards and in haste. The organisations and associations defending the rights of foreigners have also reacted vehemently, asking you to review your copy. UNHCR's October opinion only confirmed the hastyness of your working method. The own-initiative opinion of the Privacy Commission is in the same direction. On the agenda of the plenary, these texts were referred to the committee as a result of these opinions. There, great disappointment, we come back to the commission to learn that you are not finally changing anything. I would like to recall that we have drafted and tabled many amendments in collaboration with the relevant associations. Our 14 amendments were nuanced, constructive and contained balanced proposals. These amendments have been swept away by a rather impressive setback. We gave you a pole that you refused. However, these amendments would have changed the situation. They would have allowed you to respect in part the opinions given by international and national bodies. This attitude is rather disappointing and is not that of a State concerned with its international commitments. That is why we are resubmitting these amendments to the plenary. I will not go back to the substantive debate, we have talked about it extensively in the last few hours, and my colleagues have presented it at length in committee. In essence, we regret the minimalist transposition of this directive and many limitations or exceptions: for example, the shortening of the time limits for proceedings, the non- suspensive nature of certain actions or a non-individualised questionnaire allowing the identification of procedural needs. We recognize that there are positive elements, but they leave us relatively sceptical. In particular, I would like to mention the treatment in full litigation by the Aliens Litigation Council of all appeals brought, the introduction of the medical examination offering better guarantees to the applicant, and the identification of special procedural needs. UNHCR recommended a multidisciplinary evaluation while your preference is for a standard form. Another positive aspect is the extension of the list of vulnerable persons or the guarantee of a dignified standard of living for the asylum-seeker in the event of withdrawal or restriction of the right to material assistance. It is indeed positive to ensure a decent standard of living, but what is meant by it in practice? Finally, the limitation of the risk of leakage is real and can only be determined after an individual examination. But we fear that the criteria are not objective: they are not clearly defined and lack precision in your text. Unfortunately, when we read these texts, we see a constant imbalance. We sluggish between timidity, when we have to provide guarantees favourable to abroad, and reckless, when you do not hesitate to impose restrictions, derogations, presumptions of abuse. I'm calling for nuance. We need to ask ourselves the right questions. How to analyze and assess the request for protection? What is the fear if you return? What is the applicant's need for protection? Who do we want to protect? We target people who are fleeing, suffering, suffering from their chaotic living conditions, and who really need a new start. We must therefore leave the basic premise and stop believing that detention reduces migration flows. It's a decoy. From the outset, you analyze the file with a suspicion a priori. It is a negative and devalued approach to believe, for example, that the inability to produce documents automatically constitutes a refusal to cooperate. As noted by UNHCR, psychological aspects may prevent people from confiscating themselves from the first interview. Instead of demonstrating the fear of persecution that the foreigner harbours in the event of a return to his country of origin, the asylum-seeker will have to try to convince the Belgian State that he is neither a fraud nor a liar. It is a principle of distrust that is really not productive. Not all asylum seekers are abusers of the system. Of course, the applicant has a duty of cooperation. However, the burden of proof cannot rest solely on its shoulders. The asylum authorities and the asylum-seeker must have a shared responsibility. Don't make me say what I didn't say. This is not an apology of lengthy and endless procedures. It is in everyone's interest that they can end. Nor is it said that Belgium must be an eldorado. But a truly humane and realistic migration policy must be adopted. That has been said by some of my colleagues and that is what the CDH stands for. The CDH advocates an effective and responsive accompanying policy. Let's stop seeing these strangers as numbers or dangers. Let's see them as people, people who respect each other. There is therefore a need for real alternatives to detention. A flexible reception model with sufficient buffer places must be put in place. For all these reasons, and because you have rejected our constructive amendments, we will not support these two texts in their current version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, in addition to my earlier speeches today, I would like to say that, unfortunately, you have not removed our concerns about this draft law. We fear that the draft law will violate the rights of asylum seekers. We fear that asylum seekers will have fewer opportunities for a fair and fair procedure. However, it is necessary. A legitimate asylum seeker, a person who, at the start of the journey, does not have any certainty as to whether he will receive protection but who would receive effective protection at the end of the journey, would be affected by this bill. This draft law increases the chance that a legitimate asylum seeker will not get asylum at the end of the day, and that is a very heavy responsibility, which you are assuming here. I would like to illustrate this by working with you on the main points of the draft law. First, there are the multiple applicants. It has already been said by several colleagues, the atmosphere of abuse is outlined, which is punished with the exclusion of care. There will be shorter procedures and shorter notice periods. Mrs Smeyers has just said quite clearly that the Foreign Office can decide to repatriate if someone does not cooperate sufficiently with the procedure. In addition, a multiple applicant may lose the right to care. But a multiple applicant, what exactly is that? That is an asylum seeker who wants to make a new argument for his procedure, for his asylum application. That's a multiple applicant. So it's not always about a fraud or a profiteer. There is a statistics on this: 20% of multiple applications are declared admissible. In other words, you are punishing a group of people from whom we know from the statistics that a significant number of them will receive effective asylum or that the application will be considered admissible. Secondly, the draft law introduces the concept of special procedural needs for asylum seekers who are in a vulnerable situation with trauma caused by, among other things, sexual abuse. They will be given specific protection. However, the particular procedural needs must, of course, be well defined and identified. How does the government intend to do that? It wants to do so on the basis of a questionnaire. We asked for it in committee. The questionnaire may not immediately detect when an asylum seeker is in a very vulnerable, traumatised situation. So, at least put a lawyer or psychosocial counselor in there right away. That was also the question of civil society organisations. The draft law does not meet that requirement. That guidance is not enshrined in the legal text. So that is a mistake, a second problem with the text. The third problem of this draft relates to the concept of risk of hiding. It may be decided that there is a risk of hiding if the application for asylum is made too late, if the applicant does not cooperate well with the Commissioner-General or with DVZ, in the case of a multiple application. Then it can very quickly follow the stamp of risk of hiding. This may lead to detention. The criteria, your decision tree on the basis of which you place a stamp risk of hiding, are again very vague. Detention can also take place under the Dublin procedure, of course. That's a third problem with the legal text. The fourth problem relates to the provisions relating to minors. This draft allows minors to apply separately from their parents. That's good. However, if I have understood correctly, the legal text does not oblige me to check, when sending back to a safe third country, a new concept, which is also being launched here, whether there is, among other things, a guardianship system in that country, a youth protection system and whether the country has signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Furthermore, with regard to the risk of hiding, which may give rise to detention, it is not specified whether the relevant criteria also apply to minors. That is a fourth problem in your text. A fifth bottleneck is the safe third country. You decide to send asylum seekers to a safe third country, but if they present themselves there, they cannot enter. They will come back to Belgium or they will call on our country again. They must provide written proof of this. If they come back to Belgium, their application for protection is immediately considered a multiple application, with all the adverse consequences. The procedure for sending asylum seekers to a safe third country is actually not well worked out. Sixth and last point I would like to raise is the burden of proof. We talked about it earlier. That shared burden of proof is still very important to us. It is not obvious for an asylum seeker to prove and prove his own identity. That shared burden of proof really needs to be anchored. In your bill, Article 48/6, the principle is that the lack of evidence is a negative indication. This actually runs counter to the benefit of doubt for the asylum seeker, which is also mentioned in Article 4.5 of the Qualifications Directive. The benefit of the doubt, which is contained in the EU Qualifications Directive, is not transposed into Belgian legislation, when you could actually have done so. Mrs Smeyers has just started saying that this is the transposition of a number of European directives. That's not higher math. There's bandwidth there. These European directives can be transposed in different ways. There are a number of points where you opt for a method that leads to less legal protection for asylum seekers. An asylum seeker is not threatened by this, although he can be perfectly entitled to it. Then there is the question of opinions. The opinions that lie ahead and are negative are not negative. This is an opinion from the UN Refugee Organisation. You replicate that, but you actually ignore that advice because you do not incorporate the advice into your legal text. There is also the negative advice of the Privacy Commission, to which you respond by stating that we will fix this bill, which is not good according to the Privacy Commission, with a royal decision. We must vote here on a text and not on that royal decision, because that is not before us, we do not know what it says. I would like to call on my colleagues not to participate in this piece of bad legislation and also not to participate in the gradual dismantling and dismantling of the rights of asylum seekers, because this is, of course, not the first text on which we are voting as such. It is a build-up of draft laws in which you gradually, step by step, mortify that legal protection, that fair opportunity that every asylum seeker should have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u38	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is no illusions about the draft law before us today. Even with this so-called intertwined asylum law, our country remains a country without borders because of the simple fact that these adaptations to the existing law remain entirely within the European straitjacket. A number of things are streamlined on the basis of European directives, there are a number of refinements, especially technical provisions, and a number of things are made legal that were not in the past. I cannot deny that there are strings attached which can certainly be accepted. The regulation on safe third countries is a good thing, for which we have long argued. In the past, moreover, we have pointed out that if this had been applied as a result of the asylum invasion that we experienced two years ago, we would not have been saddled with all those asylum seekers. The possibility of examining mobile phones and the like is equally welcome. The possibility that an inadmissibility may be invoked in the case of a second application for asylum and that the person concerned may be expelled if the CGVS considers that there are no new elements is positive. There are, for example, other things that can undoubtedly be viewed positively in the margins, but let us not forget that the Secretary of State, in his not-intelligent communication policy, merely emphasizes the strings, but never talks about the relaxations. That is why I am here, of course, Mr Secretary of State. I would also like to point out the relaxations in the draft law on which you are putting us to the vote today. The expulsion of foreign nationals applying for asylum from border control services is hereby abolished. Holding for reasons of public order or national security shall be limited in time. There are more guarantees in this bill and procedural guarantees for unaccompanied minors. The order to leave the territory does not follow until the appeal has been dismissed by the Council for Foreigner's Disputes against the CGVS' refusal or after the time limit for bringing proceedings has expired. The right to care therefore continues to run longer than is currently the case. All asylum seekers now have the right to a personal interview. A refugee returning to his country, for example on holiday, does not automatically have to deal with the lifting of the refugee status. These are all new cases that are registered and will undoubtedly be communicated to the countries of origin, Mr Secretary of State. You know the famous tamtam we always talk about. Perhaps these things will lead to more rather than fewer refugees. Who knows! In short, it is not the case that this draft law is merely entangled. There are also relaxations, and not the least. What strikes me, Mr Secretary of State, is that there is a entanglement that is somewhat contrary to what the N-VA has advocated in recent weeks. Your friendship with the Prime Minister of Catalonia, Mr Puigdemont, is well known. I note that in this new asylum law, applications for international protection submitted by residents of European Union countries must, by definition, be declared inadmissible unless those concerned can demonstrate that they are being subjected to persecution or serious harm in their country. The article of law that makes asylum so difficult for EU residents is unacceptable given today's European context. Mr Secretary of State, you will agree with me on this, who was the first to argue that Puigdemont has the right to apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u39	Mr Dewinter, I have read your amendment. I find it particularly touching how you open your heart and your arms to asylum seekers from the south of the European Union. That's very moving. I didn't expect that from you immediately, but well, as a law-abiding nationalist, perhaps that's not entirely surprising. However, your amendment does not make much sense. After all, there is no change in the current system. At the moment, the principle that an asylum application should be made is particularly topical as it concerns Mr Puigdemont, so I have to be careful what I say, as is usually possible for a European in Belgium. However, the presumption of inadmissibility is now also a principle. The application for asylum may be submitted. Your group has Amendment No 2 on this point. 27 referred to Article 40. You are asking for a broader regulation than is currently the case. After all, we are not intruding on the regulation. That's very clear. We are not proposing a tightening of the regime, but you want to make it even more flexible. Well, that may be your position, but I'm not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u40	Article 40 of the Asylum Act has a long history that goes back years. There were parties who wanted to delete Article 40 so that Europeans could not apply for asylum in Belgium, as in many other European countries. My party has always opposed this, even during the government negotiations in 2014. You may ask Mr Vuye. He is not here now, but we were still colleagues in the political groups at the time and we took part in the government negotiations together. We have always resisted this. I believe that Europeans should be able to apply for asylum in Belgium. In other political parties it was felt that this should not be possible. However, I believe that the presumption of inadmissibility is a sound European principle in itself. This does not mean that asylum cannot be finally granted by the CGIS, but it means moving towards a system whereby a European country is placed on the same footing as a safe country. We now have a list of safe countries. I believe that there are seven countries on that list, including Albania, Macedonia and Georgia. I think that's a healthy principle. I find it very strange to say that Albania is a safe country for us, but Germany is not. I think that's kind of absurd. So we'll put that on the same page. There is then a presumption of inadmissibility, but on the basis of specific cases, such as an interview, we may even experience this in the coming weeks, the CGMS may decide to grant asylum, grant international protection status and thus offer protection against international or European extradition. I'm defending that principle. Your amendment wants to go even further than what we are doing now. After all, you claim that what we are about to do will tighten things up and make it even more difficult for Europeans to apply for asylum, and that we will not go any further; what is right. You want to move on. You do not want asylum, you do not want it for anyone, but you Europeans think it should go even further. Mr Dewinter, I must tell you that most European asylum applications do not come from Spain, which comes from Roma. You might be a little less fan of that, being Antwerp. In Lubbeek we do not have Roma, but in Antwerp you do have knowledge of the problems involved, and that is not obvious. Most European asylum applications come from Slovaks, Roma from Kosice. In fact, I think I remember an action you took against the Roma. What you are proposing actually means that you want more Roma to apply for asylum and that they all have to be declared admissible almost immediately. That's actually what you're proposing here. That's actually unbelievable. I expect a lot from you, but I do not expect you to welcome the Roma from Eastern Europe. I don't think that's what this is supposed to be. However, I understand the emotion about the Catalan dossier. Of course, I share that emotion that nationalists have. But if you say we have to go completely the other way, I think you can do better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u41	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u42	I call Mr Dewinter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u43	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u44	Excuse me, but I'm the chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u45	May I congratulate you on that, Mr Frédéric?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u46	Of course. No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u47	May I continue my speech, Mr President?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u48	Go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u49	May I continue, Mr. President? Thank you for your kindness. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a little upset by the President. I thought I saw Mr Bracke behind me, but it turns out it was someone else. Mr Secretary of State, I know your argument. I also know that our country makes an exception to the famous Article 40 and that this exception is also the opportunity given to Puigdemont to apply for asylum. However, you will understand that our group is a little bit more Eurocriticism than your party. After everything we have seen in Spain, we have expressed our reservations about the fact that no one, on principle but exceptionally, could still apply for asylum in another European country. Your servant once considered such an asylum application, after many trials against my party. I've never done it; it hasn't been necessary. However, it could have been done. With regard to such an application for asylum, those rights should also be safeguarded for any person who is politically dissident in his own country. He or she should be given the opportunity to apply for political asylum in another European country. Mr Secretary of State, let me get to the point. I recently read an article by Bart Eeckhout, in which he compared you to Orbán. He wrote that you wanted to deport all the refugees, to close the borders and that's all. That's folklore. That's not true. I am in this your ally and ally, to make it clear that you are not Flemish Orbán. You will not like to hear that, because of course you like to cultivate your image of Flemish Orbán. You are not, however, at any time. You are not the Flemish Fico, the Slovak Prime Minister. Nor are you the Flemish Zeman, the Czech President. And you are not the Flemish Szydlo, the Polish Prime Minister. These four countries, the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary, together form the Visegrád countries. That is the model that my party supports, a model that distances itself from the model of the European right of asylum. The Visegrád countries clearly say that they do not accept the ukaz of Europe, that they ignore that European legislation and that they no longer colour within the European framework when it comes to asylum and immigration. That is the example that we must follow, rather than comply with European directives and cut some branches of the tree here and there, but do not dare to touch the roots. In Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia they dare. Visegrád shows the way. They oppose Europe and have the political courage to say that Europe can go to hell; we do not participate in the open border policy; we shut down borders. They're closing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u50	Mr Dewinter, I have to say that, first of all, you are reading the wrong newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u51	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u52	And, secondly, that you're making a terrible mistake. You say that Mr Francken is not Orbán. I'd like to turn it around. I think we in this country are lucky to have Theo. It's not like those other countries have a Theo Francken, too. He defines the policy in a very thorough, calm and clear way. He gives weight to the right things and keeps the right proportions in balance. That's what you're having such a hard time with, Mr Dewinter. That is why you are now trying to bring that into a certain light, which is not right. It's just the other way around.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u53	Mr Dewinter, I understand that you say that you are not the Flemish Orbán. Nor do I have the ambition to be the Flemish Orbán. I don't want to be the Flemish Fico either. Fico, the Prime Minister of Slovakia, is, by the way, a socialist. In fact, Kathleen Van Brempt was going to evict his party from the European Socialist Group, but that did not happen. I do not want to be Fico either, because that man is just making sure that all those Slovaks will come to Belgium for asylum with your amendment. That's certainly not my ambition. You really have a wrong amendment. I think you'll regret it. I find it very interesting to share that amendment in migration-critical centres, in which you are also staying. I have a lot of contacts in Europe. I was in Hungary two weeks ago. I've been to Poland. We have good contacts with these countries in themselves, but I disagree with them in principle on one matter and I tell them that. They say: we are against illegal migration and we believe that we should better defend the external borders of the Schengen area, better control and better make it clear that illegal migration can no longer be tolerated. I think they're right about that. But I do not agree with them saying that they do not want asylum seekers to be included, even if they are distributed among the Member States of the European Union. I disagree. I do not think it is right for people to say that we are going to send x numbers of asylum seekers to Italy and Greece. I also disagree with the fact that there are so many asylum seekers. That's a whole different story because that's about the boating problem. It is not easy to defend a sea border, it is much more difficult than a border. At a border one can build a fence, in the sea this cannot be done. I understand they're saying it needs to be better, but in the meantime, it does. Those people are in Italy and Greece. I believe that a total lack of solidarity is a European idea that they do not want to include Muslims. I totally disagree with that. That's not how we're gonna get out. I find it particularly regrettable that the Visegrád countries, which I can greatly appreciate for the rest, are receiving European subsidies in many respects, particularly from the countries of northern and western Europe. There are billions of subsidies per year for agriculture and the economy in those countries. But they do not want Muslims applying for asylum in Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam. I'm sorry, but I really can't agree with that. This is a very fundamental point and our Prime Minister makes it clear at European meetings this time and time again. Mr Jambon and I support and repeat this very clearly. Solidarity does not work in one direction, because then it is not solidarity. We have some experience of this in this country too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, you will be an accomplished European politician in this respect. I believe that Viktor Orbán and the leaders of the Visegrád countries are right. They and their courageous policy of closing their borders, raising fences, refusing asylum seekers and immigrants have made sure that their example elsewhere in Europe is heeded. In the European Union we have therefore had no choice but to take a number of measures. Without them, however, it would never have happened. One would have continued to follow the Wir acquisition of the Das-politics of Merkel. It is thanks to Orbán and the leaders of the Visegrád countries that there has been action and that there has actually been a slight contraction here and there. May I point out that Beata Szydlo, the Polish Prime Minister, said in 2016 that it was done and that they would not let anyone in. At that time too, there was a threat of EU sanctions. She said: 'I prefer EU sanctions to refugees in my country'. She's right about that. If we were to show this same civil disobedience as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland, I am convinced that we in Europe would also be able to get Western European countries to do so. It only takes political courage, but there is little or no political courage in this government. To challenge you a little more, I would like to conclude my speech. It is a short speech, because it is already late and much added value will not ultimately bring this debate with a long quote from a historic speech by Viktor Orbán. He gave that speech when he had not so long taken the decision to close the borders and pursue a policy, against the EU, which has brought him so many curses. He said, "No people can be free if Europe is not free. Europe is weak and sick today. Europe is not free. Freedom begins by telling the truth. It is forbidden today in Europe to tell the truth. Even a silk muzzle remains a muzzle. It is forbidden to say that the new immigrants are not political refugees, but happiness seekers. It is forbidden to say that Europe is threatened by asylum invasion. It is forbidden to say that tens of millions of new refugees are starting to come to us. It is forbidden to say that the flow of refugees is responsible for more crime and for more terror in our countries. It is forbidden to make it clear that the masses who come here from supposedly other civilizations threaten our way of life, our culture, our freedoms and rights, our customs and Christian traditions. It is forbidden to say that those who came earlier have built a parallel society for themselves here according to their own laws and ideals, a society that wants our European civilisation and in the long term, if we do not stop mass immigration. It is forbidden to say that this is not accidental or accidental, but that this is an operation planned and orchestrated by the European Union. It is forbidden to say that the EU has conceived the plan to use mass immigration as a lever to push through its ideal European society, the multicultural society. It is forbidden to state that the purpose of this resettlement, this'repopulation', should redesign the religious and cultural landscape of Europe and rearrange the ethnic foundations of Europe which threaten to destroy the nation states." Finally, Mr Orbán says: 'It is forbidden to say that the European Union', on whose side you are walking and within whose lines these directives are being implemented today in your draft law 'a bit more and more national sovereignty is being restricted, and that in Brussels the plan is being planned for the so-called United States of Europe, for which no one has ever authorised'. So far, Viktor Orbán. I can honestly conclude my speech today no better than by quoting this man, a courageous political leader, and keeping him as an example of the policy we must pursue in the area of immigration and identity formation, in the area of refugees and in the area of nationality policy. Do what the Visegrád countries do, follow their courageous example, ensure that in the long term Flanders may become the fifth Visegrád country, the new and real European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, while this bill has the honest ambition of transposing two European directives, I regret that this transposition was carried out so late that it prevented associations from being heard in committee in due course on a project of such great importance that goes beyond the European statute. While the government is two years behind in this transposition, it has required associations and MPs to decide on its draft in less than two weeks. This method is totally disrespectful of our task of monitoring government action, as well as of the expertise of specialist associations and experts in asylum law in Belgium and Europe which should have been consulted a priori, that is, during the drafting of this text and not at the end of the race. Mr. President, where is Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u56	He's taking a technical break, but Mr. Ducrame is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u57	In that case, I'm waiting for him to return.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u58	Can we make sure the Secretary of State comes back?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u59	Otherwise, it would be even more disrespectful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u60	We do as we can, dear colleague. He's back. You can continue your intervention, Mrs. Caprasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u61	Secretary of State, I was speaking directly to you. When I saw you were missing, I was worried. Mr Secretary of State, you said in committee: "Go ahead, see who you want, I'm ready to go to the finish. In my personal capacity, the only opinion that interests me is that of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The others, we all know which side they lean on." Thus, in the light of UNHCR's opinion in early October, you were forced by force to accept the referral of this bill to the Committee on the Interior. But what was not our disappointment at the fact that you would finally not accept a single amendment that addressed UNHCR's concerns, even though the law had to be overturned by the Constitutional Court. Admittedly, your project proposes some progress: the list of vulnerable profiles suffering from a serious illness, the registration of the best interests of the child, the prohibition of detention of an applicant for international protection because of the application. It was regrettable, however, that such progress was limited or overturned by the lack of just and equitable guarantees for those seeking international protection. Worse, your project complicates both the law of asylum and makes it difficult to apply, while your government agreement provided, on the contrary, for a migration code to simplify these procedures. Your project even tends to criminalize asylum. The list of criteria referred to as "indicative objectives of a risk of flight and allowing the detention of an asylum-seeker" is so long and vague that it could include all asylum-seekers. Through this provision alone, this project demonstrates the lack of knowledge of the terrain and the difficulties that asylum seekers face in understanding the procedures, our language and the fear that they will receive a negative opinion. The project is also full of contradictions that will fuel legal insecurity. It is proof of this that he insists, at the same time, on the impossibility of retaining an alien on the sole ground that he or she has applied for international protection and on the need to detain an alien as soon as he or she enters the territory illegally. I therefore fear, like ICRÉ, UNHCR and Myria, that detention will become the norm, even systematic, as is the case in Hungary and, soon, in Poland, when it must be the exception. Finally, this draft constitutes an example of these texts whose measures are completely unbalanced in relation to the objective pursued, even if they infringe on fundamental rights. The Privacy Commission has highlighted this in its recent opinion. It rightly held that this bill does not provide any guarantees regarding access to gsm data, e-mails and profiles of asylum seekers, until it interprets a refusal as a breach of their obligation to cooperate and, therefore, as a ground for detention. In the face of these criticisms, the Secretary of State has announced his willingness to include these guarantees in an additional royal decree, while legal certainty requires their inclusion in the law. In the same way, you have turned your back on UNHCR's criticism of the burden of proof on the asylum-seeker alone, stating that some nuances had been made in the explanatory memorandum. Here, too, legal certainty implies that the burden of proof is expressly enshrined in the law. The operative part of this bill, and not just the explanatory statement, must, in fact, take into account the reality of those applicants for international protection who come to us in the greatest deprivation and, very often, without personal papers. The project, as it stands, does the opposite by implying that applicants for international protection are potential fraudsters or offenders. For this reason, Mr.Maingain has tabled a number of amendments that I hope I can put forward in his place, which are aimed at transposing UNHCR's concerns into the bill. I hope that the majority will have the wisdom to support them with a view to an effective reform of the right to asylum at the same time respecting individual rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while it must be recognised that there are some advances in these texts, such as the possibility of a medical examination or the questionnaire allowing the identification of special procedural needs, or even the consideration of the interests of the child, these projects mainly provide for serious regressions at the democratic level in the field of asylum. First of all on the form, since neither Myria nor the NGOs active on the issue of immigration refugees were consulted in the preparation of these texts, despite their significant impact on the law of foreigners and the fact that there was ample time to do so. They were only invited at the last minute to give an opinion to the Committee on the Interior and refused to go, denouncing a masquerade, because they were invited to vote on a 400-page text which they had obviously not had time to analyse. In the meantime, they have issued opinions on the draft, all of which are very critical - in the same way as the Council of State, the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. It should be recalled that the Secretary of State had previously said that the views of the active associations on the subject were not of interest to him at all and that only the opinion of UNHCR might be of interest to him, but, as the opinion was critical, he clearly had little interest in its content. This already says a lot about the democratic value of the process. On the merits, it should be noted that, as usual in the Secretary of State's plans, the tone is very harsh with regard to asylum seekers, who are presented as fraudsters, abusers of procedures, people who do not cooperate with the authorities, etc. It therefore contains a series of provisions which make it possible to generalise measures which are supposed to be exceptional. Thus, it is normal to provide for a period of 30 days between the time when the asylum-seeker comes to the Aliens Office to submit his asylum application and the time when it is registered. This normalizes the principle of a pre-reception centre, where they will have to wait for their application to be registered. However, we know that in these centres the reception is rudimentary - no psychological care, no access to a lawyer, etc. - while these are people who have just arrived in Belgium with sometimes a very difficult journey of exile, recent traumas and special needs that require special attention. With this project, it is also normal to detain asylum-seekers, since the project provides for a panel of assumptions, where the Foreigners' Office can decide to detain asylum-seekers during the examination of their asylum applications. These very broad criteria raise fears of arbitrary decisions. In its report, which is not of interest to the Secretary of State, the ASBL Coordination and Initiatives for Refugees and Foreigners (ICRÉ) states that these criteria are so broad that it is feared that the Office of Foreigners will resort massively to detention, both of those in an irregular situation and of those seeking international protection. It is an arbitrary and unjustified policy, which has not only a huge human cost for those who come to seek asylum, but also a huge financial cost for society, as the Federal Centre Migration - Myria once again recalled yesterday. It also becomes normal, under this law, to expel asylum seekers during the asylum procedure, when it comes to a second asylum application and it is lodged from a closed centre, in violation of the right to an effective remedy. The text provides for extremely short appeal periods for detained asylum-seekers, so short that it is no longer possible to speak of the normal exercise of the rights of the defence. We wonder how, within five days, an asylum-seeker can have access to a lawyer who, in turn, will have to find time to analyze the file, to talk to his client, to write an appeal to the Foreign Litigation Board, which is formalistic and therefore requires rigour in drafting. UNHCR, as well as the Council of State, doubted whether that deadline was in line with the right of asylum-seekers to an effective remedy. This text introduces the concept of "safe third countries". From now on, an asylum-seeker who has resided in a third country considered safe before arriving in Belgium, and who is considered to have a link on the spot, will no longer be able to apply for asylum in our country. It will be considered as seeking more favourable socio-economic conditions. It is therefore probably aimed at Syrians who transited several months into Turkey before arriving in Belgium. Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u63	Turkey will thus be regarded as a safe country for them, for it does not return them to Syria. This example shows that the notion of "safe third countries" is too vague, problematic and hypocritical. All reports show that Turkey is not a safe country, as fundamental rights and reception conditions are not guaranteed at all. This text also introduces an accelerated procedure for several types of asylum applications which I am not going to list here, because the discussions have been lengthy. In any case, for all these situations, the CGRA will be pressured to make a quick decision. The appeal period will be shorter. Yet, can one blame an asylum-seeker, who is experiencing a dramatic situation and has endured trauma, for sometimes being confused or inconsistent? This text puts pressure on the CGRA and will multiply the appeal procedures. In short, these projects will not improve asylum policy, but we know that this is not the purpose of the Secretary of State. Since the start, Mr. Franken, you have chosen to make the issue of refugees and migrants your asset. In your policy of division, you find a scapegoat and practice political agitation on this issue to avoid the debate about the anti-social policy of the N-VA and this government. You spread racism with the aim of diverting attention from your wage and pension attacks, your inaction and your complicity with major tax fraudsters, as well as corruption cases, cumulations of remuneration and the copying that drives your world of traditional political parties. You don't like a comparison with tax fraud, as you mentioned earlier. Yet I do, Mr. Secretary of State. Indeed, in texts such as these, the N-VA denies refugees who arrive here, often to survive, the right to protect their smartphone and privacy. On the other hand, the N-VA clings to bank secrecy as soon as it comes to protecting the rich tax fraudsters, of course, in the name of privacy. As soon as they are rich fraudsters, this one is at stake. I'll quote you, Mr. Franken, even if you're chipping your smartphone. I will remind you of what you said in 2012, when a certain French billionaire and fraudster Bernard Arnault wanted to acquire Belgian nationality. You had stated that he could use the procedure for acquiring nationality, open to persons who could claim "exceptional merit". Bernard Arnault, "exceptional merits"! I quote: "Let these French come! Arnault, as soon as he became Belgian, would want to invest in small Belgium."No, Mr. Franken, he didn't want it; he wanted to come here to escape the tax. Finally, what happened with Mr Arnault, whom you wanted at all costs to welcome here, contrary to what you are inflicting on those who come to us because they are really in trouble and are trying to survive? You said, "Come, come!" And then he was prosecuted for home fraud. He escaped justice through a criminal transaction. Bernard Arnault created a foundation in Belgium to escape tax. What do we see today? Who is quoted in Paradise Papers? The same Bernard Arnault, whom you wanted to welcome with open arms at the same time! This is the policy pursued, a double standard policy with a red carpet for the rich as you apply a purely racist policy for people in difficulty who come to ask for help from us because their lives are at stake. These are the reasons why you will always find us on your way, Mr. Franken!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u64	Mr Van Hees, I told Ecolo-Green earlier. I find the gratuitous way in which you are slandering both your ex-administration and Parliament and a huge part of our population, below all levels. Mr Van Hees, I say the same thing about such statements as to Mr Hellings: they belong in a pub. Do it there, do it at home, do it with your friends, but it doesn't belong here. People call it racist based on balanced policies, I apologize, but I don't accept that. That is not the way we deal with each other here. It's one battle today. We have just said it together with Mr Van Rompuy: justice is being handled very consciously in all possible areas. To paint the policy as if we are doing nothing for one thing and for the other is downright shocking. This is not my subject, I am not a specialist in the matter, but I am prepared to put my finger on the wound in such ridiculous speeches in the future and to point out that any ideological discourse may be brought, but people should not be offended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u65	I don't even know if it's worth answering. In fact, my colleagues have already responded, since you did the same thing with Mr Hellings earlier. I don't think I'm talking about coffee. In Antwerp cafes, they call you "Rob Envelop". I don't call you that. I'm not having coffee talks. I simply note that this government is pursuing a policy that I consider to be racist. It's a thoughtful racist policy. It's a policy of division. I think we must have the courage to accept such an analysis. There are parties, and there are many in this government, who believe that in order to pass anti-social measures and to enrich the wealthiest, it is necessary to divide the population. It's divide to rule. It is a political analysis of all political scientists in the world. That's exactly what the N-VA does. It does so vis-à-vis the Walloons, Francophones. It does so vis-à-vis immigrants, asylum seekers. It is a political reality. I understand you don't like her, Mr. Van de Velde. I can understand that you don't like to hear that. But it's a reality. If every time you don't like something in this Parliament, you're going to say it's a coffee discussion... okay, go ahead. No problem. We can say, then, that it is something that does not please Mr. Van de Velde
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u66	I haven't heard much lower statements in my life. This applies to both the first and the second. If that is and will be the level of this House, my hat will be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u67	Mr President, I find it rather easy to use the word 'racist' here. Racism is a criminal act. That cannot be done; one cannot just accuse someone or a government of racist acts. When I hear the responsibility of Mr Van Hees, it is about what the anti-social measures of the government would be towards workers. That doesn't really have anything to do with it. Mr Van Hees, you make the word racism a hollowed-out concept. Racism is reprehensible to me, to the Secretary of State and to our party. I don't want to go light on that. Racism isn't right. And the accusations of racism shouldn't be made if they're not justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u68	Are any other members still asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u69	Thank you to the colleagues. I have been answered on several occasions in committee on points of substance. I have done so on several occasions during the debate here. I have responded to many points, and I think that should be enough. For the rest, when I'm called racist, as so often, I find that particularly low. Anyway, every Member of Parliament has to say and do whatever it wants, we'll see. I certainly believe that most of the questions have been answered and that I have said in substance on many points what is the right position and how things should be interpreted. So there's going to be a KB. The article is not enforceable until the KB arrives. We are working on this with the majority of our colleagues behind the scenes. We will discuss this further, it will certainly be the subject of debate in Parliament. I will try to get my administration to give me good figures on any elements of fraud. The elements of fraud and identification in the context of an asylum application should be kept on a statistical basis. Finally, it concerns the transposition of a European directive. We have come a long way with this bill. It was a long time before we could begin the discussion here, but it is a very good balance. As with many things in the field of asylum and migration, the design is a good balance between protecting the most vulnerable in our society and on the international stage, and boldly daring and acting against people who abuse our hospitality. That's the government's red line. I defend that red line with fire every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u70	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u71	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2548/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2548/3) The draft law contains 71 articles. The bill has 71 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u72	* * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u73	• 32 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11) • 45 - Olivier Maingain (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u74	• 28 - Emir Kir (2548/11) • 33 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11) • 26 - Benoit Hellings cs (2548/10) • 31 - Monica De Coninck (2548/11) • 46 - Olivier Maingain (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u75	• 47 - Olivier Maingain (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u76	• 48 - Olivier Maingain (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u77	• 34 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11) • 49 - Olivier Maingain (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u78	• 36 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u79	• 37 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u80	• 38 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u81	• 39 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u82	• 40 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11) • 50 - Olivier Maingain (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u83	• 51 - Olivier Maingain (2548/11) • 41 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u84	• 52 - Olivier Maingain (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u85	• 53 - Olivier Maingain (2548/11) • 43 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u86	• 44 - Isabelle Poncelet (2548/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u87	• 30 - Monica De Coninck (2548/11) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u88	Held: the vote on the amendments and Articles 4, 10, 11, 15, 19, 24, 37 to 40, 42, 45, 46, 56, 57 and 61. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3, 5 to 9, 12 to 14, 16 to 18, 20 to 23, 25 to 36, 41, 43, 44, 47 to 55, 58 to 60, 62 to 71.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u89	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Monica De Coninck, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Quite a few colleagues have already spoken about the two draft laws. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u91	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2549/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2549/3) The draft law has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u92	• 7 - Emir Kir (2549/7) • 5 - Isabelle Poncelet (2549/7) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u93	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u94	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 4 and 5. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3, 6 to 16.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u95	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u96	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter Buysrogge, Karolien Grosemans, Veli Yüksel, Hendrik Bogaert, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Dirk Van Mechelen, Tim Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Veli Yüksel, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u98	Mr President, Ministers and Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say good evening to you in the meantime. What we have here tonight is an adaptation of the legislation on exclusion. It may be interesting to give Members what inclusion means. Higher-grade military workers can no longer be promoted in the last few years before their retirement. For chief and chief officers, this is a period of three years in which they must be active. If they are no longer able to do so, they will fall into the trap of exclusion. In the case of senior officers, this shall apply for a period of two years. This applies to reserve soldiers for a period of one year. The castle is already old, it dates from 1958. There are three reasons why we want to remove the exclusion. The first argument concerns the reason why the measure was introduced in the past. It's about the so-called golden parachute. The military who retired received a pension on the basis of his last pay sheet. In the meantime, this legislation has become obsolete. The pension is now calculated for the period of the last years. The argument that someone was given a golden parachute, in order to be promoted quickly, has certainly fallen away. There are also two substantive arguments why we want to remove the exclusion. That is, first of all, an argument about the individual himself. Now the person concerned is constrained in his or her potential for growth at the end of his or her career. By abolishing the exclusion, he or she is still eligible for promotion to a higher position during the last years of his or her career. The second argument concerns the organisation. Perhaps the person who can no longer be promoted to a position is the most suitable candidate or candidate to occupy that position. In short, we believe that there are sufficient arguments to abolish the prohibition. We also organised a hearing on this subject with Lieutenant General Jan Hennes, Director of Defence HR, who explained. He too fully supports the abolition of the prohibition. I would also like to thank colleagues in the committee for their good cooperation and unanimous support for the legislative proposal. Hopefully we will see that support translated here tonight at the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u99	Mr President, I will be very brief. Our thanks go also to the colleagues who have allowed this text to be adopted in committee. It was important for our assembly to act quickly on this bill in order to be able to take into account, at the next promotion committees that will meet on December 5 and 6, 2017, members who, close to retirement, would be denied a final opportunity to be promoted to a higher rank. As a result of our vote, and of course the MR will support this bill that we were able to co-sign, the law will come into force on December 1, 2017 and could therefore apply immediately. We believe that this legislative correction will allow a series of officers, non-commissioned officers and military members to benefit rightly from a final promotion, which will be a source of additional motivation for them to complete their careers in a positive way, of course. At a time when our National Defence must devote all its energy to recruiting young military personnel and to keeping all its forces alive, measures that are in the direction of further appeal to the Department of Defence must be taken. This proposal is part of it. We therefore endorse it in the interests of all concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u100	Mr President, I think Parliament is taking a very good initiative here. It's good for the department itself. Until the last moment in people's careers, one can ask that they remain committed. For the people working in the Defense Department, this also means that they can promote up to the end of their career, which is motivating and good for working satisfaction. That is also good for the defence industry itself, because that is how we have deployed the people to the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u101	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u102	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2711/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2711/3) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in a proposal for a law amending various provisions relating to the promotion of the military." The Commission's proposal to amend various provisions relating to the promotion of the military.' The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u103	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u104	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Karolien Grosemans, Peter Buysrogge, Renate Hufkens, Johan Klaps, Tim Vandenput, Dirk Van Mechelen, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Veli Yüksel, Richard Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Vandenput and Mr Bogaert. They shall refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u106	Minister, until 2006, military forces were unable to stand for elections, nor to engage in political activities. There was quite a bit of restraint at the time. The arguments for this were the neutrality that would be compromised and the risk that the effectiveness and activities of the army would be undermined. In 2006 there was some political pressure and there was a right to stand as a candidate at local and provincial levels, a right to stand as a candidate because in practice it was impossible. Military who wanted to exercise a local political mandate had to take compulsory unpaid leave, so no bet, no build-up of seniority or pension rights during that political leave. Those strict regulations meant such a huge financial decline that it became impossible to do politics. Very few soldiers take the step. Military people are obliged to declare their intention to stand as candidates, so we have figures. In the previous local elections there were 141 candidates among the military, 20 of whom were elected. Only five of them finally took the step and were immediately placed on unpaid political leave. In 2014 there was one military left. Today, in 2017, the spirits have fortunately matured a bit more. The present legislative proposal facilitates participation in local and provincial elections and facilitates the taking up of mandates. Political leave is aligned with that of federal officials. It is a significant step forward and a substantial change. Moreover, political rights do not give a clear lead to do what one wants. We must not fear the disappearance of military neutrality. We should not be afraid of a confusion of roles. Military personnel must refrain from any political activity during duty hours. In other words, no election signs, no flyers, no posters within the walls of the quarters, just as it is taboo in schools, for example. The legislative proposal is finally a firm step forward, but I am not going to sit down or sit down and let it go even further for me. In France, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Denmark, among others, military can run at all levels, including national and European. I find it odd that we can't do that. At the moment I have a convincing argument for this from the defence staff, neither from the trade unions nor from political groups. So I hope the spirits will mature further. In any case, we stand at less than a year of municipal elections. It is high time that progress was made. I hope everyone will support this bill because it is a sign of respect. Those who support this proposal make it clear that they have confidence in the military as a possible elected representative. It is also an added value and an enrichment for politics if people with all kinds of backgrounds can participate not only in politics, but also fully in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u107	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the text proposed today was simple in the head of the N-VA: to offer the military the opportunity to now also stand in the parliamentary elections (federal, regional and European) and not only in the provincial and communal elections, as is already the case. This debate had already taken place in the previous legislature, it had been rejected by several parties which are nevertheless co-signatories of this text. In the text amended by the majority itself, this is no longer the case. The N-VA has tabled amendments in committee limiting the application of this bill at the local and provincial level. In conclusion, we are going back to the current situation except for this text, as my colleague has said, which now aligns for these levels of power, the military and the rules in force for public service personnel. It is true that during the hearings, both the unions and the staff were very critical of this text. We agree with the position that has always been defended by my group in this area. For us, it is a matter of respecting the strict neutrality of National Defence and the military, as well as ensuring the inherent availability of their functions. They already have the opportunity to exercise their local and provincial mandates. Extending this possibility to other levels of power can potentially undermine this neutrality. My analysis and the position of opposition to the original text that I defended in committee with my colleague Julie Fernandez did not, at any time, call into question the skills and abilities of our military. All our positions on other proposals or projects can attest to this if necessary. Beyond the need for neutrality and to avoid any conflict of interest, the authors' will also raises the question of an inexplicable difference of treatment vis-à-vis police officers in particular. I would like to recall police ethics: "The members of the operational framework refrain in all circumstances from publicly expressing their political opinion and engaging in political activities. In the performance of their duties, all staff members observe strict neutrality in their dealings with political agents." These rules also apply to magistrates. It is therefore fully justified to provide for a uniform approach to political rights in the special bodies of the judiciary, the police and the army. These different bodies are essential parts of the law enforcement force and the legitimate missions of a rule of law like ours. We are talking about regalist and highly symbolic functions of the action of the State. This text also raises the question of the meaning of the priorities of the majority when we talk about our army and the working conditions of the military at a time when attrition is very high. Was this really a priority in the human and material context that our Defence is experiencing as a result of the budget cuts decided by this government? The amendments also refer to the fundamental right of eligibility in a democratic society. But then, why not amend the law that prohibits members from striking? The right to strike is also a fundamental right in a democratic society. Yet, it is not granted to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u108	Mr Thiébaut, just for the sake of understanding, you mentioned a number of times that you did not want to give political rights to military forces because of their strict neutrality. So the PS lists don't include any military? Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u109	At the federal level, no, ma'am. Do you know any of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u110	Strict neutrality is strict neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u111	We don't have soldiers, we don't have policemen, we don't have magistrates, no! These are regal functions and we believe that when they are carried out by citizens, they are not compatible with political functions. Our position is clear. Do you know a member of the PS who is a military member? [[(...): (....)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u112	I invite you to continue your intervention, Mr. Thiébaut. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u113	At the disciplinary level, she may be quite military, but I don't think she's been in the army. [[Hilarity]] Before being interrupted by my colleague, I said that while we are there, we could consider granting the right to strike to the military. Why not, finally? But on this point, I believe that the N-VA would not fully agree. Indeed, if they were given the right to strike, given the rhythms, the budget, the working conditions that this majority imposes on them with its vision of the military "good to do everything", I am sure that many soldiers would be happy to be able to strike. They have, in any case, demonstrated this in November 2016 when they protested against the government's decisions, particularly in the area of pensions, which, as you know, extend their careers unilaterally by seven years. I will conclude my speech by announcing that we will abstain from the text as amended by the majority that is before us today. It is intended to bring the political leave regime applicable to members into line with the regime applicable to public servants. While we are far from the ambitions of the original text, we continue to believe that it is not, even in this reduced version of the text, a matter of maintaining differences in this matter between the military and the police, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u114	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MR did not immediately associate himself with the initiative of our colleagues in the Defence Committee, while paying close attention to the respect for the government agreement which states: "The Minister of Defence will consider the need for a legislative initiative to align the political rights of the military with those of other officials." We have therefore been attentive to the continuation of the work in committee, in particular through various hearings, and to a reflection initiated on the basis of Mrs Grosemans's bill in order to facilitate the exercise of their functions resulting from the local and provincial elections and the resulting mandates. In our view, it was necessary to relax the very reductive conditions put in place during the first extension of political rights, and this is now achieved with this text. On this basis, we have joined the parliamentary process and will, of course, vote on the proposed text. Finally, I just want to point out to our colleague Mr Thiébaut that the soldiers who are currently actively involved in the fight against terrorism will appreciate that his group considers them to be 'good at everything'. Personal fact Personal fact
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u115	Mr President, I refer to a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u116	You have the floor, Mr. Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u117	Mr President, I said that they were regarded by this government as "good to do everything". Not by our group!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u118	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports this proposal. It is a recommendation that the military who serve our country should finally give greater participation and participation in our policies. During the discussion in committee, we actually wanted to go further and comment on the original proposal. However, the proposers themselves weakened the proposal with an amendment at the last minute. The result is, with a proverb, that the elephant gave birth to a mouse. The present proposal does not change much. There is, of course, more room for the military at local level to participate in the political debate and to exercise political mandates, but at higher levels nothing changes. So we will still not be able to have soldiers as colleagues here in the Half-Round. In fact, one has to ask why they do not have the right to participate at this level. We wanted to enter into the discussion to extend their rights to a higher level. I note that if not in this Parliament, then in the newspapers, the Open Vld also asked that question. MEP Hilde Vautmans pointed out that until two weeks ago, people blew high off the tower as if something were going to change substantially, and then back off at the last minute. A missed opportunity, according to Mrs. Vautmans.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u119	Mr President, Mrs Grosemans has just said it, and I would like to stress that the N-VA is and remains in favour of granting political rights to military forces for parliamentary elections. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. That was indeed our initial proposal. We then held hearings on this subject and had enriching debates on it, and we have to note that there is currently no majority to extend the legislation to the parliaments. As the proposer of the proposal, there are two possibilities. Either we have to vote on the whole proposal and vote it out. Then there's nothing. Either one amends its own proposal to a reduced but feasible version, extending the rights, or in any case removing the thresholds currently in place for local elections. As a result of the imminent local elections, it had to be clarified quite quickly. We could still go round for weeks, months or maybe years, but then the result was zero. Now there is a solution to the local elections that are on the way. With regard to the parliamentary elections, we will see what we are doing. A Member of the European Parliament of any party which apparently has not followed the dossier closely in recent weeks may claim what it wants, the N-VA continues to support the extension of political rights, including to the parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u120	I am not speaking on behalf of the MEP, her group will do so. I would like to stress once again that we are constructive and will support this proposal. Just so we're clear, it's a first step forward, but it's a small step forward. In our view, it is a pity that the debate could not be continued in order to extend it further in a modified form. I hope that we can take further initiative in the future. You referred to the municipal elections of 2018. In 2019 there will be other elections. I hope that another initiative can be taken to further extend political rights for military personnel by 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u121	Mr President, I would like to join a number of previous speakers. We, too, will vote in favour of this proposal. It is a step in the right direction. Everyone knows that Flemish Interest has been a party asking for years to make the political rights of military people out of employment as broad as possible. I have read the reports of the hearings and seen that the military summit is not in favour of enlargement to the parliaments. However, I have also read that most of the trade unions in the Defense Department are. They have also made that clear in these hearings. If we read the arguments raised by the army summit, my group believes that they weigh only very lightly. They certainly do not object to the democratic right to aspire to such mandates as a citizen. I have read reactions from various parties who, like ourselves, are in favour of extending that right to national parliaments, as is already the case in the Netherlands and other countries today. I am giving you the opportunity today to confess colour, because we have tabled an amendment to that enlargement, as the initial legislative proposal actually wanted. I will, of course, be counting on the support in the vote on that amendment by all those who are strongly in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only congratulate Members of Parliament once again on the work that has been done. I believe that this is an effective step forward. However, I would like to emphasise that there is something wrong with the story that the PS has just come here to tell. The party admits to having discussed and agreeing to the fact that military personnel, whom it has always regarded as a separate class and which must be kept in a cage, may be on lists, collect votes and may even be elected. However, if they are elected, the votes will be for the party, but the mandate associated with that gives the party to its traditional friends. In short, she thanked the ladies and gentlemen of the military; they did their best, but for the rest the party started working on this. I don't understand. That's a very strange vision. The members of my party have already said that the text could possibly go further. I am convinced that the logic is now being extended, so that anyone who candidates at the level at which it is possible today can also effectively take up that mandate. After all, what is the point of creating the possibility of candidates, and then making it virtually impossible for the candidate who has been elected to do so, to do what the electorate elected him to do? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you once again on this step forward. We'll see what the future brings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u123	Mr President, I am still surprised by the minister's remarks, because he seems to think we're going to have dozens of soldiers on our lists, but we don't have any, minister! Perhaps the most military in our country is André Flahaut, but he is not military. He's an army fan! He's a connoisseur! But there are no soldiers in our house! You tell us: "It's amazing, we're going to put soldiers on our lists and they won't be able to sit! What a scandal!" There is another much more frequent case than the one you mention here: dozens of communal officials, candidates on lists in the communal elections cannot sit. This case is much more frequent than that of the army you mention. There are lots of similar cases!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u124	That's exactly what I mean! What you're saying is that we've voted in the past for a member to be a candidate, when the exercise of the mandate is not possible. Today, a person who has been elected is allowed to exercise his or her mandate effectively. This is the subject of the majority bill. It is possible for an elected candidate to exercise his or her term of office at the same level as the one at which he or she can be elected today. This is made possible! These candidates are there not only to bring you votes but also to exercise their mandate. That is the purpose of today's decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u125	In any case, I can confirm that there are no military personnel on our lists, but what I know is that there are certainly a lot of them on yours! That's for sure!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u126	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u127	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1254/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1254/5) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u128	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u129	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u130	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u131	In accordance with our discussion on 26 October 2017, we should set up a follow-up committee to periodically evaluate the implementation of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to investigate the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. In accordance with our debates on 26 October 2017, we must set up the Monitoring Committee to periodically assess the implementation of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and at the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I propose that the political composition be the same as that of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I propose that you resume the political composition of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National airport and at the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u132	According to the decision of the plenary session of 21 September 2017, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 September 2017 for the mandate of a male Dutch speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on the police information. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 21 September 2017, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 26 September 2017 for the term of office of Dutch-speaking male member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I propose that you publish a third call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of male Dutch speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on police information. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I propose that you publish at the Belgian Monitor a third call for candidates for the term of Dutch-speaking male member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u133	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 21 September 2017, two new calls for candidates were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 3 October 2017, one for the mandate of Deputy Chairman and another for the mandates of Registrar of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 21 September 2017, two new appeals to the candidates were published in the Belgian Monitor of 3 October 2017, one for the term of alternate president and another for the terms of office of clerk of the Disciplinary Council of the Commission de Regulation de l'Electricité et du Gaz. No application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I propose to announce a ninth call to candidates for the mandate of Deputy President in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a ninth call for candidates for the term of office of alternate president. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u134	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (2719/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (2719/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u135	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u136	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft programme law, No. 2746/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of Bill 2746/1. I invite the government to justify this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u137	Mr President, I shall speak very briefly not to extend the sitting. Indeed, the government is asking for urgency under Rule 51 of the House's Rules of Procedure for Bill 2746. This draft programme law contains various measures related to the implementation of the 2018 budget, which must therefore come into force by 1 January at the latest. The project includes health care measures, several measures for the development of e-commerce, measures for the activation of savings, the extension of flexi-jobs or the tax on securities accounts. I want to be comprehensive and to provide the House with all the useful information. The bill was tabled in the House this Monday, November 6, and distributed this Tuesday, November 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u138	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u139	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I also propose to you the proposal (Mrs Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees) to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the political motives of the attacks of the Gang of Nivelles, No. 2757/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u140	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I also propose that you take into account the proposal (MM. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees) to set up a commission of inquiry to examine the political motives for the attacks by the Brabant killers, No. 2757/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u141	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u142	The interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 25 October 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 25 October 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 234/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 234/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on the Interior, the Minister gave me answers to my questions. It is not the OCMW, but the private investigator, who must ask the Minister to grant an exception to the regulation in the Law of 19 July 1991 on the profession of private investigator. However, I did not receive an answer to my most pressing question. Will the Minister allow exceptions? Will the Minister allow a witch hunt for our citizens? Colleagues, for the sake of clarity, wage fraud must be tackled. Honesty and respect for those who really need it means that. We must help and support those who cannot cope with the speed of our society. However, working with private investigators is a wrong way. There's room for cow business here. We're not at the farmers' market here. The government must monitor and preserve its core tasks. It's up to the government to protect and control its resources and its citizens, not the private investigators. Strict action against fraudsters, but also preserving basic humanity is not mutually exclusive. On the contrary, that goes hand in hand. Colleagues, I propose that the Minister should not go into the questions of private investigators to check living wage travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u144	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u145	Yes 73 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 128 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u146	Mr President, I have agreed to join my colleague, Mr Damien Thiéry. I shall therefore abstain from voting on the other votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u147	Mr President, I have a vote with Mr Luykx. I shall therefore abstain from the next vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u148	Mr President, I have a vote with Mr Van der Donkt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u149	Mr President, I have been with my colleague, Mr Yüksel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u150	Mr President, I have been with Mrs Van Hoof who is on a mission abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u151	Mr President, I have agreed to join Mrs Dierick on a mission abroad in Taiwan. I shall therefore abstain from voting as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u152	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 25 October 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 25 October 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 235/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 235/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the French nuclear power plant in Chooz, like the one at Gravelines and to a lesser extent the one at Cattenom, is located close to our territory, but on French territory. Worse, it is literally enclaved in Belgium, near the province of Namur, of the communes of Beauraing, Hastière, Philippeville, Dinant, with in case of nuclear incident problems of radioactivity for Belgium since the prevailing winds and current of the Meuse would lead this radioactivity on our territory. Nuclear safety on the site is ensured by the French authorities, with a largely inadequate scrutiny of Belgium and this parliament. It is all the more insufficient in the light of repeated incidents in Chooz and a recent report by the French supervisory authority which is overwhelming about the EDF manager's ability to ensure fire safety on this site. That is why I have called on the Minister of the Interior and tabled a motion for a recommendation aimed at strengthening our capacity to quickly have information in the event of a problem in this plant, but also to exert increased pressure on the French authorities to avoid any incidents and to ensure the adequate security conditions pending the earliest possible closure of this plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u154	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u155	Yes [[74]] Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 128 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2658/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2658/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2659/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2659/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2668/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2668/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 73 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2685/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2685/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u160	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2653/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2653/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u161	Vote on Amendment No 32 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 4. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 4. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 44 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u162	I wanted to vote in favour, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u163	Of which act. Vote on Amendment No 45 by Olivier Maingain on Article 4. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Olivier Maingain to Article 4. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 28 by Emir Kir on Article 10. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No. 28 by Emir Kir to Article 10. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 33 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 10. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 10. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Bogaert voted against. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Benoit Hellings cs on Article 10. (2548/10) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Benoit Hellings cs to Article 10. (2548/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 36 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 31 by Monica De Coninck on article 10. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Monica De Coninck to Article 10. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 30 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 46 by Olivier Maingain on Article 10. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Olivier Maingain to Article 10. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 36 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Almaci voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 47 by Olivier Maingain on Article 11. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Olivier Maingain to Article 11. (2548/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u164	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 48 by Olivier Maingain on Article 15. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 48 by Olivier Maingain to Article 15. (2548/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u165	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 19. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 19. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? I voted against, just like Mr Van Peteghem and Mr Vercamer. Vote on Amendment No 49 by Oliver Maingain on Article 19. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 49 by Oliver Maingain to Article 19. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 35 by Isabelle Poncelet on article 24. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 24. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[37]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 54 by Emir Kir on Article 24. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No. 54 by Emir Kir to Article 24. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 36 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 37. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Isabelle Poncelet to Rule 37. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 37 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 37 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Deseyn voted against. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 38. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 38. (2548/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u166	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 38 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 38 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 38 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 39. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Isabelle Poncelet to Rule 39. (2548/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u167	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 39 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 39 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 40. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 40. (2548/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u168	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 40. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 40. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 40 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 40 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 40 from Isabelle Poncelet to the deletion of Article 42. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Isabelle Poncelet to delete Rule 42. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 50 by Olivier Maingain on Article 42. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 42. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 36 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 42 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 42 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Dedry and Mrs Becq have voted like their group. Vote on Amendment No 51 by Olivier Maingain on Article 45. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 45. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 41 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 45. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Isabelle Poncelet to Rule 45. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 45 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 45 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Heeren and Mr Deseyn voted against. Vote on Amendment No 42 by Isabelle Poncelet to omit Article 46. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Isabelle Poncelet to delete Rule 46. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 29 by Monica De Coninck on article 46. (2548/11) Vote on amendment No 29 by Monica De Coninck to Rule 46. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 44 Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 46 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 46 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Thoron, Mr Foret and Mrs Cassart-Mailleux voted against. Vote on Amendment No 52 by Olivier Maingain on Article 56. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 56. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 56 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 56 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 53 by Olivier Maingain on Article 57. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 57. (2548/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u169	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 43 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 57. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Isabelle Poncelet to Rule 57. (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 57 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 57 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 44 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 61. (2548/11) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Isabelle Poncelet to Rule 61. (2548/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u170	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 61 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 61 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 30 by Monica De Coninck to insert an article 72(n). (2548/11) Vote on amendment No. 30 by Monica De Coninck to insert an Article 72(n). (2548/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 32 Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes [[74]] Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2548/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2548/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u172	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 4. (2549/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 4. (2549/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[45]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain on Article 4. (2549/7) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain to Article 4. (2549/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 7 from Emir Kir to the exclusion of Article 5. (2549/7) Vote on Amendment No. 7 by Emir Kir to delete Article 5. (2549/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Van Camp voted against. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 5. (2549/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 5. (2549/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 73 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2549/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2549/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2693/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2693/5) Mr Devin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u175	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2711/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2711/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u176	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 2. (1254/6) Vote on Barbara's Amendment No. 3 Not cs to Article 2. (1254/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 106 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1254/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1254/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u178	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (2719/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (2719/2) Aantal stemmen 117 Number of voters Valid votes 116 Votes valables Perfect majority 59 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of four parts (A, B, C and D) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into four parts (A, B, C and D) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u179	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u180	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u181	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u182	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u183	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u184	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes 121 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Mrs Schepmans and Mr Miller voted in favour. Mrs Smeyers also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u185	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes 124 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Mrs Lanjri voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u186	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes 125 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u187	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 124 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part D). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part D). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u188	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip195x.u189	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 16 November 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 16 November 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 November 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 16 November 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
