ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u1	I ask my question about a patient who contacted me about the reimbursement of a bottle or a device that gives oxygen. He would no longer be eligible for this because his sats would be a few percent too high. He said he used to qualify and get the bottles refunded. According to him, the scheme had been amended a few years ago. I myself am not aware of it and I could not find much information about it either. Hence my question to you. Can you clarify exactly how the scheme for the reimbursement of oxygen bottles is designed for people with COPD? What scientific findings or studies are the basis of this scheme? In some European countries these oxygen bottles would be available, but not from us. Is there a plea in favour of a European framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u2	As for your first question, there is a full section on the RIZIV website that can also be consulted by patients. I'm gonna have to refer you to that. For example, it depends on how low the oxygen content is, even if it is about the same disease. It's gonna take an arterial blood sample to find out. The lung content also plays a role. As for your second question, there is a good framework for the safe provision of oxygen therapy in our country. Patients who really need this care are adequately supported here individually by healthcare providers or through conventions. I do not think there is an urgent need here to take an initiative at European level. Belgium is also one of the few countries where oxygen can be ordered both through a distribution chain and through the pharmacist. So we have a great freedom there to make oxygen as easily as possible available to the patient. It's good to have a patient contact you, but it would make more sense for him to contact his doctor. That is one of the duties of the prescriber. He is not only there to prescribe, but also to see how and where the patient can make an application. I have the two websites here, if you'd like to check.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u3	That's nice, thanks. I'll let him know and tell him that he'd better get in touch with his doctor for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I understand that patients for admission to hospital service are bound by a minimum of three weeks of compulsory admission. During my internship I stumbled on that, but I didn't know this was still the case. In that context, I was also contacted from the field. Madam Secretary, what is the ratio behind that? Do you have any plans to abolish that? Such practices do not seem to me to be the most appropriate use of resources. I have already testified in this committee about patients who could go home perfectly, but who had to do their recording time. I know of a very specific case of a patient with recurrent urosopsis who was discharged after a dozen days on the service of internal diseases, while at the service of geriatrics it was only after twenty-eight days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I am actually surprised that there would be a minimum withdrawal period for patients within a hospital. This is not the case either in the service of geriatrics or in other services. There is no mandatory withdrawal duration for patients who are hospitalised. However, there are some ZIV conventions which finance specific rehabilitation programmes and which do provide for a certain duration of treatment. The geriatric patient you mention may be in such a care program. Those rehabilitation programmes are exceptional and based on scientific guidelines for the treatment of specific diseases. There is no specific rehabilitation program for recurrent urosopsis. If the national average lag time in the G-services would actually be about three weeks, then we can only establish that as a fact. I had that checked, especially the rule of law. On the basis of the figures for previous years, we have found that the average length of lying in the geriatric services is estimated between ten and eleven days. Since that is an average, this means that not every patient should stay in hospital for three weeks. I think it's a weird story, so I had it checked out. For the time being, I don't have any elements to indicate what you're saying. I don't know what hospital this is about. We know that some hospitals have very low capacity utilisation rates for their beds, and that may play a role. If there is a low capacity utilisation rate and there is still room, people are sometimes kept a little longer. This is certainly one of the issues for which we need to implement our reform, so that there is a higher rate of utilisation of these services and a more efficient use of resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u6	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to address here an important issue for patients and for oto-rhino-laryngologists (ORL), which concerns both cochlear implants and middle ear implants. Even recently, when it was necessary to carry out a cochlear or middle ear implant, it was customary to apply for a refund agreement prior to implantation. The surgeon presented the medical file to the College of Medical Directors of INAMI and did not perform surgery until the agreement had been reached. A circular from INAMI was sent to the general hospitals on 6 March 2017, which provides for a reversal of the procedure after the intervention. It explains that the College of Medical Directors grants or refuses reimbursement for a cochlear implant or an auditory implant of the middle ear after its implantation. This results in a very high level of financial uncertainty for the patient, regardless of age. In most cases, the surgeon is satisfied that his or her patient meets all administrative and medical criteria. On the other hand, some files are particularly technically complex. Therefore, no surgeon will be able to guarantee to his patient that he will be reimbursed a posteriori. This is all the more the case for the reimbursement of middle ear implants, since this reimbursement is more recent, and so there is less setback. You'll tell me it's not that bad. However, depending on whether it is a cochlear implant or medium ear implant, these implants cost between 10 000 and 25 000 euros a piece, and these patients are being plunged into the risk that this implant will not be taken care of after the operation. Given these very high amounts, I find this very problematic. About 15 Belgian specialists from the north and south of the country have been asking you about this subject for several months. They told me recently that there was no response or reaction from you. It is obviously ENTs who have asked for you, and their request is legitimate, because it really appreciates the potential financial difficulties of patients. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to try to convince you to change the deal. For the legal aspect, there is the INAMI circular, but also a basic royal decree of 25 June 2014. This is a provision that needs to be revisited, because with the same costs and risks, the fact that this reimbursement is not granted a posteriori would either plunge families into great financial difficulties, or would mean that patients would no longer dare to be implanted, even though they obviously need it. In either case, it is extremely penalizing for the latter. I thank you, therefore, for examining this situation and for changing it in the interests of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u8	Madam Chair, Mrs. Fonck, I received these letters on May 17. I have already answered all fifteen, which were the same. But before we had this answer, we did indeed have to contact the competent organs of INAMI for this dossier. In addition, the Commission for Reimbursement of Implants and Invasive Medical Devices has recently begun a discussion to review the application procedure, in consultation with the College of Medical Directors. The Commission will also make contact with experts in this field before agreeing on a new proposal. Pending the review of this application procedure, I requested the College of Medical Directors to review the file prior to implementation, and not post-factum. The problems that have arisen and led to the drafting of the circular are as follows. First of all, after an agreement has been given by the College prior to the implantation, the implantation is sometimes postponed for several years. It is therefore difficult to determine whether the patient meets all the criteria for reimbursement at the time of implantation. The patient goes to another ENT centre. The application is then not submitted by the specialist doctor who implants. This is a condition which falls within the criteria of reimbursement. That is a problem. Second, there are also cases where a device other than the one mentioned in the application is installed. Or, in the meantime, the patient has reached an age limit, for example eight years. Refunds are different if the patient's age at the time of surgery is less than or greater than eight years. Other benefit codes than those applicable at the time of application apply. In addition, maximum age limits exist (12 years and 18 years) for certain benefits and are not always respected. For all this, a new procedure must be developed in which reimbursement can be given in advance to avoid such problems. For this reason, we have asked patients to get in touch with the specialists, who are faced with the claims, the circumstances of the claims, and to establish an agreement with them. Their request must be well founded. Of course, we can give the agreement for the implantation before the intervention. Pending a new procedure, I requested that these issues be dealt with in advance. I am counting on the applicants to ensure that these frequent problems do not recur. I have written this with a lot of detail to the fifteen specialists, who will also be contacted by the INAMI bodies. It is not at the cabinet level that negotiations are conducted, it is INAMI that deals with it. I asked to take action and get, as soon as possible, a new procedure, better for the patient, because the amounts involved are important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u9	Thank you, Minister. I'm holding on to two things. It is that there, immediately, from the operational point of view, we return to the situation before the circular of the INAMI of 6 March 2017. We switch to the previous procedure. Good, but answer the specialists. They wrote to you on March 27. I hear you've had to take the time to examine this mail. I don't have a problem with that, but you really have to answer them and make sure that now, all of them are going back to the previous procedure. That's a good thing. Secondly, of course, this procedure must be blocked from a regulatory point of view. I therefore continue to plead for a review of the Royal Decree of 25 June 2014 – I hope that this is the meaning of what you are saying to me today and that is what I will remember – even if it has to be done with the College of Medical Directors of INAMI, so that it is no longer a concern in the future and above all that, even though the regulatory procedure was written to do so a posteriori, we do not find ourselves with difficulties of patients who would have been implanted with, after all, a problem because the procedure on the regulatory basis of 2014 would not have been respected. Thirdly, I am well aware of the organizational elements that you are referring to and which, I imagine, justified, on 25 June 2014, that this royal decree should be adopted and that the circular of INAMI should be issued in 2016. At the same time, there is a new procedure to be found, but it seems to me that fairly easy solutions exist. Expiry dates can be expected. Once authorization is given, it is not valid for 45 years. Compared to the age cut-off dates that you recalled with the refund changes, we can also provide very clear terms with the patient. Madam Chair, I will table a motion. Compared to this royal decree of June 25, 2014, I am now highlighting the problems on cochlear implants and middle ear implants. It's very technical. You all have this list of benefits and nomenclatures that concern the complete royal decree. I think it would be worth taking a cross-sectional look at the royal decree to see if there are no other flaps, apart from the cochlear implant and the middle ear implant, which are problematic. I raise a motion for recommendation since it is a matter of amending a rule. Minister, I am counting on you because for patients and for families, it is really fundamental given the very high amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u10	The letters have already been sent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u11	Perfect! Last week, they hadn't received them yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u12	They were sent this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u13	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government to amend the terms of reimbursement of cochlear implants provided for in the Royal Decree of 25 June 2014 laying down the procedures, time limits and conditions for the intervention of compulsory health care and compensation insurance in respect of the cost of implants and invasive medical devices and in its annex, in order to provide for a procedure for authorization of reimbursement a priori, i.e. before implantation. Since March 2017, INAMI no longer accepts applications for reimbursement prior to the implantation of the cochlear implant. As a result, patients are faced with uncertainty about the management of the implant and in a very difficult financial situation in case of refusal of reimbursement. Providing for an authorisation procedure for reimbursement a priori ensures the price security of patients, all the more important for a cochlear implant with a cost of between 10 000 and 25 000 euros." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: ' The Chamber, g Hear Mrs Catherine Fonck's interplay and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government to amend the modalities for the reimbursement of cochlear implants, as laid down in the Royal Decree of 25 June 2014 laying down the procedures, deadlines and conditions for the reimbursement of compulsory medical care insurance and benefits in the costs of implants and invasive medical devices and in the Annex thereto, in order to provide for a procedure for granting reimbursement a priori, i.e. prior to implantation. Since March 2017, the RIZIV no longer accepts the applications for the granting of the refund submitted before the implantation of the cochlear implant. As a result, patients do not know whether the implant will be refunded and will end up in a very precarious financial situation if the refund is refused. A procedure for the prior award of reimbursement will enable patients to be guaranteed a tariff, which is all the more important for a cochlear implant, since it costs between 10 000 and 25 000 euros." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u14	Madam Minister, a large-scale study by the Independent Hospital Funds shows that Belgium is not getting a really good report on dental care in children. At the age of four, four out of ten small Belgians have never been to the dentist, while every child should go for the first time around the age of two. The result is that four out of ten children at the age of seven have unfortunately already to fill a hole, or more. It should be noted that children from low-income families are almost twice as likely to have holes as children from families who are not entitled to the increased allowance: 62% compared with 35%. I think this is a strong indication that dental health goes hand in hand with social vulnerability. By the way, we know that from other studies. In 2015, only 54 percent of the children, i.e. 18-year-olds, consulted a dentist. It is even worse for low-income families, with only 44%. However, an annual visit is recommended. According to the KCE, these figures are downright bad. In fact, dental care is paid in full to all children aged 18, except for orthodontics. By comparison, in the Netherlands nine out of ten children have been to the dentist. The result is orthodontics: 55% of teenagers have started or ended orthodontic treatment in the last five years. On average, parents have to spend EUR 1 375 for this, in a quarter of cases even more than EUR 2 000. These are high amounts that parents themselves have to cough up, often due to a lack of preventive dental treatment. I do not have to say that children from vulnerable families often do not get it and that they continue to run around with the problems. Madam Minister, you have already taken a general measure to ensure that the population goes to the dentist every year. These figures date from 2015. I do not think we can yet take that into account, apart from the fact that I do not believe in that more punitive approach you have put in place. We'll have to measure or observe that later. I think that from these studies there are rather disturbing figures. Hence my questions. Do you have any other strategies to encourage parents to go to the dentist with their children on a regular basis? Do you think there is sufficient awareness? Perhaps there is also a task there for general practitioners who can encourage parents to go to the dentist with their children from the age of two. As you also know, sensitisation often does not work in vulnerable groups in our society. This goes beyond them all the time. I believe that specific measures are needed to get that group to the dentist too. I'm thinking about family coaching projects or other ways. I am also thinking of a possible task for the district health centres, in which no dentist is now involved. What opinion do you have on that? Are you planning measures in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u15	Madam Minister, I will refrain from the introduction, because the introduction and the occasion are the same as my colleague's. The point is that small children do not go to the dentist enough; it is about social vulnerability and about the health gap, what the Federal Knowledge Centre says about this and also about the problem of orthodontics. I'll go straight to my questions. Do you agree that general practitioners and pediatricians have an important role to play in encouraging parents to ask their children to go to the dentist every year from two years onwards? If so, will you take steps to do so? What steps, with what timing? If not, do you intend to take other measures to address this situation, given the poor figures? Secondly, do you intend to take measures specifically aimed at children from disadvantaged families, because there is indeed a bigger problem there and we can also make savings there by preventing later curative treatments? Thirdly, are you prepared to review the reimbursement of orthodontics?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u16	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, indeed, the number of dental visits of young children is too low. We've known that for years. Several measures have already been taken in this area. It is true that there is also a preventive role to be played in this area. You know, however, that awareness of oral care is a competence of the Communities as a result of the sixth state reform. This includes encouraging parents to send their children to the dentist every year from the age of two. Steps are being taken in this respect. In schools there is an attempt to raise awareness by having the children brush their teeth in the school as well. However, that is not enough. The figures indicate that there are large gaps, while every child should have dental care. In the womb of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, a working group has been set up to optimize and lower the threshold for preventive oral care in certain target groups, including young people with lower socio-economic status. In addition, other things are being worked on, including the fear of going to the dentist, which can sometimes be great living in a family, the fear of being in pain, or the fact that there is not much involved in oral hygiene in a family. Through the Inter-Ministerial Conference, it is also intended to establish cooperation in this area so that various initiatives can be developed, including possible initiatives for us. The general practitioner or the pediatrician, depending on who succeeds the child, also plays an important role in the follow-up of oral health in patients. This is apparent, among other things, from the provision of 102,771 for the management of the global medical file. Since 1 January 2016, it has already been stipulated that the general practitioner can indicate in the global medical file when the last contact with the dentist has taken place. It is important that this question is asked by the general practitioner or the pediatrician: When was the last time you went to the dentist? If that's too long ago, they should ask to go there anyway. That's what it says. In my opinion, also instances like Child and Family or ONE remain players who can encourage parents and emphasise the importance of healthy teeth. There is a full refund of child dental care benefits in kind. So there is little that can be done about that. It will be repaid in full. Of course, we do not want to add anything to it. There is also always the possibility for the dentist to apply the third-payer scheme, which makes it even more accessible. Even if the care is fully reimbursed, we can still apply the third-payer scheme, so that we do not have to advance the money either. In the recent national agreement on dental sickness funds for 2017-2018, it was agreed to also examine the orthodontics reimbursement scheme, inter alia, to consider the possibility of introducing a mechanism in which the reimbursement depends on the severity of the dental defect, with a better reimbursement for the serious abnormalities. What's the point? You know that there are serious differences between what children need in dental care. Sometimes it's about a thread, cubes or other because of a very small deviation. Everyone in our generation has a thing for that. I don't have a perfect line either, but that didn't exist at the time. Luckily, it wasn't too bad. However, there are also children who have very large abnormalities. It is being examined whether we can give a much better refund for very large deviations than for the smaller deviations, where it is more of an aesthetic aspect which is also important. A working group is responsible for this. It is, of course, important to know their results. A resolution was also adopted on 16 March, in plenary session, on improved relief for orthodontic care. Of course, the recommendations made there must be taken into account. It includes an assignment for the committee, the working group within the Dentomut. We also need to look at how we are going to take budgetary steps. The most important starting point is that the largest refunds are made for the greatest deviations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u17	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary. Indeed, vulnerable families tend to be better off when the financial threshold is removed. In this case, however, we have to note that it will not do much good. It will, of course, bring about something, but it will not bring up the figures spectacularly. I'm glad to hear that a working party is investigating. I am also pleased that you want to make the financial assistance depend on the severity of the condition. However, I believe that there can still be differentiation on the basis of whether or not we are dealing with a vulnerable family and whether or not we are entitled to an increased allowance. I assume that the working group will look at these aspects as well. I am also pleased to hear that the recommendations of the resolution are being taken into account. All this is certainly a good thing. In the beginning, you spoke of sensitisation. We know, of course, that this is about the Communities. I think that's what we're doing. However, I am convinced that there are other possibilities for vulnerable families. For example, you indicated that the GP can report the information to patients. I think it is a federal task to make the general practitioners aware that this is particularly important. I am also thinking of family coaching. That, too, is work at federal level. I understand you take all this to heart. So we like to follow it up and maybe we'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u18	I can agree with that. Above all, I think it is very logical that orthodontics are not about the small beauty defects, but that we should do something about the larger deviations. When it comes to much better reimbursement, especially vulnerable families should be eligible for it. As far as sensitisation is concerned, you have the authority at federal level to alert general practitioners and pediatricians to this. You're talking about the global medical record. That is one thing, but I believe that training, retraining and so on are also very important in this area. Finally, introducing the third-payer system for disadvantaged families is one thing, but I think the biggest problem is that too many dentists are deconventional.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u20	Madam Minister, there has been a great deal to do around the box moth, which has affected a lot of buxushagen. In the press reports it was stated that little or no control or prevention is possible, but in the professional sector Turex and Xentari have apparently been used for years. Especially the latter would be preferred, because it selectively kills caterpillars and would be harmless to other living beings. Madam Minister, since many people have probably been confronted with this and have been looking for resources, can you clarify the harm or innocence of Xentari to public health? Was that researched in studies? What did you find out? Do you think it is advisable and safe that people use Xentari in the buxus moth, both for prevention and treatment? The remedy would not be available to private individuals in Belgium, but can be ordered via the Internet without any problem. Do you intend to take action as Minister of Health to warn people about its use and to avoid its sale and use, or do you not think it is necessary? If nothing is done, it may as well be available on our market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u21	Mrs Van Camp, you know that a protocol has been concluded between me and the Minister for Agriculture for the area of plant protection products. He'll do that in consultation with me. I am therefore also giving the answer on behalf of both of us. The active substance in the plant protection product Xentari is the Bacillus thuringiensis aizawai, a micro-organism, a biological plant protection product. As for each active substance or micro-organism placed on the market as a plant protection product, there is an evaluation at European level. The substance was approved on 1 May 2009. This was revised in 2013. This means that plant protection products containing this substance may be authorised by the Member States, although after their own evaluation of the plant protection product. For the European evaluations, studies evaluated the impact on birds, mammals, aquatic organisms, bees, useful insects, even earthworms, and bio-bottom micro-organisms. A summary EFSA report shall be publicly available and may also be found on that website. No critical concerns were identified in all these reviews. The state of play regarding the evaluation of this product is thus: the Bacillus thuringiensis aizawai has therefore been approved at European level and complies with the relevant legislation in the Regulation 1107/2009. This can only be done if it has been demonstrated that there are no unacceptable acute or chronic effects on humans, animals or the environment. It was also found that the exposure of consumers, those using it, workers and bystanders is not a cause for concern, but the necessary precautions must of course be taken. This means that they must have protective clothing and that the eyes and the face must also be extra protected in order to be able to use it. There is a recent scientific opinion from the European Food Authority EFSA which has shed new light on this. The European Commission is now examining with Member States whether this opinion has any impact on the conclusions reached in 2013. However, that investigation has not yet been completed. The product is not allowed on the Belgian market for private use. That is why it should not be sold and not used by what is called amateur users. This concerns the non-professional users. The competent authorities shall verify that a plant protection product can be safely used before issuing an authorisation for a precise application. They are based on the evaluation of a comprehensive application dossier which focuses on short-term and long-term effects on public health and the environment of the product in question. When submitting an application, it must be indicated whether it is a means of private or professional use. A clear distinction is made between an evaluation of a means of professional use and a means of amateur use. For example, means for private use must meet stricter requirements in terms of user exposure. To give an example, substances that require more than just wearing gloves to be used safely are generally not allowed for amateur use because it is assumed that people will not be sufficiently protected because they are not professionally aware of the possible consequences. In this particular case, no application was submitted for amateur use in our country. Therefore, it has simply not been evaluated whether the product can be safely used by individuals, but since it requires the professional user to wear protective clothing and protect both the eyes and the face, an application for amateur use alone would not be approved because of these requirements. We think the firm knows this, otherwise they would have done it. Indeed, through online sales, we are trying to circumvent the rules on plant protection products. The competent services have developed an e-system to monitor the sale of certain products on known Internet sites. European authorities are also urged to regulate online trade at European level. Finally, the administration is considering whether a Royal Decree is imposing an obligation to regulate the sale of plant protection products via the Internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u22	That's clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u23	At the GP, there's such a thing as a GMD. Now there is a very good evolution to include pharmacists in such a system, especially the house pharmacist, who manages a GFD. Is there such a system for other key players in the first line, such as dentists? It wouldn't be bad if there was a dentist who would manage a GTD for the patient. I have not been able to fully follow the discussion on follow-up to preventive dental visits, but we do have a lot of work ahead of us in this respect. A regular domestic dentist could certainly also do useful work in this area. The second part of my question concerns the linking of incentives to such a global dossier. For the GMD, this already exists today, for example in the form of a reduced brake charge. There is also an incentive for the healthcare provider himself. Is this also in the pipeline for the house pharmacist, for example? It would be an extra reward and it would offer the house pharmacist a way in which he could also sell it to the patient and attach an advantage to it. After all, I assume that patients do not always see the benefit of a regular care provider. So my specific question is whether something like this is in the pipeline, and if not, what your position is on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u24	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the introduction of a global dental dossier could indeed be an important support instrument for certain medical insurance schemes. The issue was also already addressed in the 2015-2016 national dental sickness fund agreement, linking the introduction of the oral care pathway with the introduction of a global dental file where reimbursements, for example, would depend on the implementation of the necessary treatment. A good policy of oral care can only be achieved if the problems identified during preventive contact are dealt with effectively afterwards. The introduction of a global dental file can be a piste. Personally, I'm not against the idea of a household dentist. You're making the comparison with the house pharmacist. I do think there is a difference between getting medicines in two or three different places, and going to two or three different places for oral care. It seems to me that a regular dentist, someone with his eyes open his mouth, is very important. It can be called the "House stand doctor'. I don't think people just change dentists, but maybe I'm a weirdo in there. I'm open to the dentist, however, for the assignment of the global dental file. It is a point that will be addressed in the evaluation of the oral care pathway. This was an item in the national agreement on dental health funds 2015-2016 and the new agreement includes an evaluation of this. It can take into account its added value. The National Committee on Dental Disease Funds will carry out an evaluation in the course of 2017-2018. That point may be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u25	What about the incentives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u26	They're part of that. There is a fee for a doctor's GMD, but that will have to be calculated. We originally introduced it for a limited group and then expanded it. The question of phasing will have to be discussed, but there will be a price tag. It is therefore a good thing that this is being considered in the conciliation committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u27	As far as the home pharmacy is concerned, certain benefits could be linked to this as incentives, such as the allocation of the maximum invoice or a reduced brake fee, as is currently the case with general practitioners. If this is not feasible in budgetary terms, it can be linked to an advantage such as the maximum invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u28	The agreement with the pharmacists on the home pharmacists was a budget-neutral agreement. There have been budgetary shifts, but the whole is a budget-neutral agreement. There was no budget added for the pharmacists. If proposals are put forward in the conciliation committee, this will also have to be accompanied by a shift in the budget. We are trying to conclude budget-neutral agreements to avoid increases in costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u29	For example, a linking the MAF statute to a fixed pharmacist seems to me to be a budget-neutral operation, so that would certainly be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u30	However, the MAF has a cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u31	For example, if the additional condition were introduced that people should have a house pharmacist to be entitled to the MAF, that would be an operation that would not cost more money. Either one is eligible for the MAF, or not. One could simply install an additional condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u32	We are in the context of the oral questions. On the one hand, we see the avenues and the budgetary requirements on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u33	Madam Secretary, it would have been messing with the Order of Veterinarians for some time now. That is also a bit the fault of the sixth State deformity. Animal welfare was transferred to the Länder, with its own council. It would then be logical to undress the federal umbrella body, the Order, so that the Länder themselves, in the form of the present regional councils, could expand their operation. That didn't happen, with all the problems of that. If the federal umbrella were to be further undressed effectively, not all the problems but many problems that exist today would have been solved on the ground. It is no secret, it has also been published in the press, that it does not always butter between these regional councils and the federal umbrella body. What is your opinion on this as a competent minister? Do you agree that the Order should be discussed? Do you see any added value at federal level? Or is that better worked out by the Länder? Are you prepared to set up a working group to review whether it would be possible to maintain only regional councils? Why is that? Why is that? In the meantime, what solutions do you see in the short term for the problems that arise today with regional councils and the Order, for example regarding post-election appointment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u34	Mrs Van Camp, I too am here with the Minister for Agriculture, by means of a protocol which regulates the area of competence, with the legislation on veterinary medicine. So my answer is also on behalf of Minister Borsus. The sixth state reform provided in its institutional agreement an umbrella structure per deontological order. That is the case for the Order of Veterinarians. That structure is the Supreme Court. In your question you are also talking about the Council of Animal Welfare, but it is organised at regional level and is therefore not part of the Order of Veterinarians. The latter shall be responsible for the observance of veterinary duties, the honour, honesty and dignity of the members of the Order, in the exercise or following the pursuit of the profession and even beyond their professional activity in the event of serious errors which would affect the honour of the profession. It is indeed a deontological code which is applicable at national level. The Order is also responsible for giving formal opinions on veterinary legislation, including the law of 28 August 1991 on veterinary practice. The question is whether there are good reasons for using different deontology according to the part of the country in which the veterinarian is employed. It's about deontology. Is it different for animals and for the profession in another part of the country? Is it more efficient to ask for two opinions for each federal legislative initiative in preparation or can we ask for one opinion, as is currently the case? I do not see how regional autonomy for deontology would be an added value. It's not for me to decide on that either. For internal problems that would exist within the order, I refer to the press release of the Supreme Court of the Order of Veterinary Experts of 11 May 2017. In it, the Supreme Court announces that the necessary steps have been taken to ensure the work and continuity of the proceedings. It is not for me to comment on procedures that are the subject of cases brought before the Council of State. In the press release, the Supreme Court says that a number of people are being put on inactive to ensure the proper functioning and continuity of the institution of the Order. The nature and the temporary nature of the measures do not allow for any further communication. I think there will be a lot of discussion on this. Fortunately, it is a temporary measure and I hope that a solution will be found. For the time being, I have nothing to say to the Order of Doctors, the name change was difficult enough already, and certainly not to the Order of Veterinarians, on which I exercise little influence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u35	Madam Minister, I do not agree with that, because if we look at current practice, there is precisely a problem with the representation of the two regional councils which should have the greatest decision-making power. At present, however, there is still the umbrella organ that they are working against each other. It seems much more efficient to divide them according to the part of the country. This does not mean that there should be different codes of ethics, but that there should be different councils that evaluate fellow Members on their own territory, so that there are no more discussions about representation, number of seats, cooperation, language structure and all the other problems that exist today. We clearly differ in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u36	Madam Minister, you have admitted to my earlier questions that there are indeed policy gaps and you have, constructively, taken the initiative of the firm to start a refund dossier. I urge you to express the gratitude of the patients concerned. I got another question. Is a screening of that condition during pregnancy a possibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u37	It's a rare disease with a lot of consequences. Three forms of the disease have been described, including the so-called marble bone disease. The overall incidence is difficult to estimate, but the autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis variant would occur in one in 250 000 births. The dominant variant, Albers-Schönberg's disease, would occur approximately once in 20 000. Mutations of at least 10 genes have been identified and would be at the root of 70% of cases. Prenatal diagnosis is in principle possible when the mutations causing the disease have been identified in the family. They should be families in which at least one child suffers from one of these conditions. Those people can certainly be genetically screened, no matter what I recommend. Given the rarity of the condition, in particular 1 in 250 000 births for the recessive form and 1 in 20 000 births for the dominant form, and the need to identify the mutations in question for the prenatal studies, a general screening does not seem appropriate at present. There is a priority list for screening at the level of the Interministerial Conference. In this matter, the incidence appears to be too small, as well as the chance to discover them without prior knowledge. But again, if such a disease has manifested itself in a family, then of course we certainly recommend that a targeted screening be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u38	That's very clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u39	Minister, we are already in June. And in March, we had already debated in committee the issue of the double cohort, which is obviously crucial in 2018 and for the next six years. The stake is threefold:- an available volume of internships sufficient to guarantee an internship for all doctors who have graduated, whether in general medicine or who begin their specialization; - maintaining the quality of vocational training, since it is obviously the quality of health care; - adequate funding because you know, like me, that hospitals are in an extremely difficult situation. At that time, you recalled that there were opportunities to focus on specializations where there were more internships or even deficiencies, to increase the number of students, to 4 particularly for general medicine, to create a transitional regime in the decree at the level of general practitioners' accreditation criteria to make things a little more flexible, to reduce working time to 48 hours during training, to limit the flow of foreign doctors, and other measures which may be less likely to influence positively in order to guarantee this place. At the time, you did not answer my question about funding. On May 18, 2017, several key stakeholders and stakeholders in health care, both in the North and in the South of the country, again sounded the alarm. It is true that it is less one because the majority of young doctors will have to choose their place of internship and determine their specialization by 2017. We are now the nose on the handlebar and a few months from important choices. They called on you, among other things, to invest in quality training courses, to give full training to generalists who they do not want to see reduced to two and a half years, as you have proposed. They called for the deletion of the INAMI sub-numbers "000" to create sub-categories of doctors and to generate a two-speed medicine. Finally, they recall how clearly investment, including financial resources, in the quality of training is existential. It is sometimes better to invest in the training of doctors than in expensive equipment and which will not necessarily allow a diagnosis, even though the clinic or anamnesis make it possible to do things in a more precise way or to avoid, in any case, the multiplication of complementary examinations. Madam Minister, when we had stakeholder hearings here in the House the other day, they told us that you had told them – even if you had not responded in March on the funding side – that it would be zero euro. I would obviously like to take stock with you. You know that hospitals are unable to provide additional resources, given all the savings that have been imposed on them. Otherwise, concerns about the loss of nurses, in particular, would be significant, and there would also be a risk of losing jobs and quality for patients. How and, above all, what are the steps still to be taken, since there is still a gap between 1,000 and 1,200 places to guarantee one for each doctor? Finally, in what period, under what timing will these young people have clear and precise guarantees so that in the next few months they can make their decision on specialization and internship places?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u40	Madam Minister, some time ago, the Flemish Medical Students circulated a press release on the double cohort that was also endorsed by other student associations, medical organizations and universities. The basis of their question is known. Next academic year the students who are part of the double cohort end their basic training. We know that this double cohort poses a number of problems. We have talked about this on a number of occasions. The press release raises four issues: the shortage of quality training places, the possible reduction of general practitioner training from 3 to 2.5 years and the 000-RIZIV numbers and funding. At the end of March, in reply to my question, you said that there are still 300 places too short on the Flemish side. On the French-speaking side there are 900. This figure is, of course, higher because every year too many candidate doctors have been admitted to training. You said that a number of legal provisions were made more flexible to facilitate the recognition of traineeships. You also said that you had already had a lot of contacts and had consulted with the students, universities and professional federations, but you also indicated that there was still a lot of work to be done and that there was still some work to be done. Providing sufficient quality training places is not a simple exercise, but a very important one. What progress has been made in this area? What matters are still ahead of us? As regards general practitioner training, you indicated earlier that you were in principle also in favour of maintaining the three-year course, but that several elements in favour of the reduction to 2.5 years would argue as a transitional measure. What's the status? When will you make a final decision? With regard to the 000-RIZIV numbers, a last-minute arrangement by your predecessor, I share the concerns of the students. I believe that this arrangement is not sufficiently clear. How do you feel about this? Do you intend to make any adjustments to this? On the additional EUR 10 million, you said last time that no agreement had been reached in the Medicomut on the allocation of these funds. What's the status here? What will you do if no agreement is reached? Will you take any further measures regarding the financing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u41	Madam President, I note that three of the five questioners are absent, but all right. That was the case last time. I suppose I can assume that the absentees will ask their questions in another session. For the answer, therefore, I should like to include in the annex the detailed answer to the interplay which took place in this committee on 26 April. Since then, there has been effective intensive consultation with the Supreme Court. The students are also involved, as I asked. I regret that so far the faculties of medicine have not all provided their data on the internship capacity available. The deans, too, have known for six years or more that the double cohort is coming. My services work on the basis of projections from a so-called stock of graduates who will start an internship, but it would be good if we had the exact figures. The regulatory context, in particular the rules for the recognition of internship services and internship managers, will be adapted in a qualitative manner so that more and temporary capacity can be created. Again, the number of places is important, but also the quality of training is very important and is a great concern. At the committee meeting on 26 April, I explained in my reply how we wanted to solve the problem. But let's be honest, this case has not been anticipated at all by my predecessors, and so I manage with the means of the edge. I would also like to point out that funding alone will not solve the problem. It won't be enough, but I never said it would be zero. Who said that? I have already said in committee that there was already 10 million available. However, nothing has worked out for this. That 10 million is shining, so let's do something with that first. Then we can see what the further needs are. I figured it'd cost something. However, one of the problems is that the number of students for five to six years is three times higher on the French-speaking side than on the Dutch-speaking side. This means that it will be easy, provided a number of measures, to find a solution and absorb the double cohort on the Dutch-speaking side. However, it will be much more difficult, and it will require more action, to absorb this on the French-speaking side as well. We do not want to reduce the quality of the training. It is therefore in fact a very difficult problem. I have therefore said in my reply that there will be a need for cooperation. In order to tackle the problem, there will need to be some solidarity between the recognised doctors and the doctors in training. The students have been received constantly, through the cabinet, with us. Of course, the deans were also welcomed, for various problems. There is also good cooperation within the RIZIV services. It's not easy, but we're moving forward step by step. Good will, however, will be needed on all sides. I would stress, based on a sober analysis, that there will be greater problems on the French-speaking side only because of the number of students. It causes tension. There is a tension field, partly due to the exception provided for by the general practitioners and which is currently stopping. This means that the general practitioners must also be internship for six months in specialised services in hospitals. I think that is good in itself, but I fear that the general practitioners in training will come into competition with the specialists in training. Then you should replace an internship master: accept a student for one or two years or invest in the training of a student for six months. I think there will be a lot of competition for the general practitioners. Specialists will argue that they should not take their place there for six months. We also know it's intense, it's a side by side training. Quality cannot be impaired by simply doubling the number of students per placement. One can't just pull internships out of the sky. So it's intensive discussions. There will be solutions from all sides, we are doing more than an effort to do so. Only the quality is important. That it's gonna cost something, that's for sure. However, we must ensure that it is an acceptable amount and that the quality of training is preserved. Of course, the last word has not yet been said. There is also concern among student representatives, who were received at the end of April. There is a greater concern on the French-speaking side because now the question of the number of seats needed is beginning to get through than in Flanders. I think it will still be manageable, but we must, of course, find a solution for the two parts of the country, for all students. I invite anyone who can provide a solution, to share them with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u42	Madam Minister, you say that this matter has not been sufficiently anticipated; that is true. Every time, I'm going to review what I said when we passed the law. I said that it would have been better to build everything that was feasible first, given the double exits that were held for six years. At the same time, you have been here for three years and we can also, at some point, take full responsibility and make decisions to arrive at solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u43	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u44	That's not enough. There's only 1,200 missing. Are 10 million of the funding sufficient? I don't know. What I see is that you have a joint statement – which does not happen every day – from the French- and Dutch-speaking organizations of medical students, from all the unions, from the deans and rectors of all the universities in the country. The first message they send is that we will not succeed if we do not make a clear decision to put sufficient resources in place. In medicine, we don't have to make applications. It's not Google that will allow a diagnosis. Not all applications in the world will be enough. In order to have internship places, it takes doctors who accept to be trainee teachers, hospitals which can finance assistants, general practitioners who must be able to pay their assistant in general medicine. On general medicine, they are right to say that we must maintain the three years. On the other hand, of the six months of internship in hospital, I'll be joining you. There will be competition between hospital specialization and the six months of general practitioners. I believe that there are other avenues in a field medicine which, outside the practice of general medicine or in a hospital institution, can be carried out in different sectors. For a few months, there is a pocket in which one could find a way to solve this six-year problem, but by maintaining the three-year internships. As far as Francophones are concerned, I would remind you that in terms of medical demography, the age pyramid and the aging of doctors on the francophone side are so problematic that all doctors who are currently in training will be indispensable. I conclude by really calling on you, Madam Minister, to speed up this matter with all the actors. Your responsibility is to guarantee quality internships for all doctors. If you change the working methods, putting yourself around the table with all the relevant health actors to really move forward, rather than in a ping-pong game, you could progress faster. Now it's midnight minus one!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u45	Madam Minister, you are right to say that too little has happened in the past. However, it is getting very close now and I fear that we need to become more concrete. After all, it is about our doctors of tomorrow, so concrete answers are needed. You have already taken steps, as I said in my question. At a previous meeting, you replied in great detail. However, I share the concern. In your answer, I also hear that information is not new to me, because the problem is mainly on the French-speaking side, because there is simply too much of a student court there. I do not share Mr Fonck's opinion on this. It'll cost a lot more money. I have already asked questions about this in a previous meeting. I would like the EUR 10 million to be distributed fairly, not on the basis of the incompetence and non-policy of the French community governments over the last 20 years. So perhaps you should enter into a dialogue with the French Community Government with the question of whether it can cover some of the costs itself. This is an additional cost, because the French Community Government has refused to introduce an entrance examination for 20 years. I just don't know who you're gonna talk to about that. Perhaps Mrs. Fonck will be able to resolve that for you soon. I think you might want to start that conversation sometime. I wouldn't want to see the following things happen. Firstly, I do not want this EUR 10 million to be distributed on the basis of the facts rather than on the basis of the right criteria, just the population numbers. Secondly, a previous meeting also discussed the placements and I do not want to see Flemish placements filled too often by French-speaking students, which would lead to shortages here again. I therefore hope that this will be clarified in the near future, and I wish you every success in your interministerial discussions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u46	Answers are needed. Let us hope that the ongoing consultations will succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u47	Madam President, Minister, since June 1st, Truvada antiretroviral has been reimbursed to people at high risk of HIV infection, mainly men who have sex with men and people from sub-Saharan Africa. This is an excellent initiative that my group and I can only welcome. We had tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect. Minister, it appears that in order to qualify for reimbursement of this treatment, an evaluation by a specialist physician attached to an AIDS Reference Centre that has entered into a functional rehabilitation agreement with INAMI will be required. Can you specify the criteria and conditions? It appears that the refund authorisation will be valid for a maximum of 12 months. Can this period be extended several times? The press was relaying a budget of EUR 1 million for this measure. Do you confirm this amount? According to the analyses you certainly did not fail to carry out, how many patients should this amount cover the needs and for how long? Finally, can this reimbursement be extended in the future to other risk groups such as injectable drug users?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u48	Madam Secretary, my questions go in the same direction. The day before the Pride, you announced that RIZIV will also repay the AIDS inhibitor Truvada to those not infected with HIV. Until now, this has only been the case for people infected. I would just like to stress that I think that this is very good news, because many people will be able to prevent contamination in this way. What exactly is your budget for this? How many people will be able to be treated with that? How much does one treatment per patient cost? What are the exact conditions to be met in order to be eligible for a refund? I found one of those conditions on the website of the RIZIV. There is a table of risk factors on the RIZIV website that allow a refund. One of those conditions is that one should have unprotected sex. I was wondering if people who usually have protected sex would not be eligible and how one makes the triage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u49	I will give a somewhat longer explanation, because it is important to explain the precise decision; I will answer other questions very briefly. Indeed, from 1 July 2017 Truvada will also be refunded for preventive use. The refund is subject to strict conditions. There is only a refund for persons at high risk of HIV infection. That risk must, of course, be assessed by a doctor before there can be a refund. The refund of PrEP is also linked to an appropriate framework in an AIDS Refence Centre. In this way people will certainly get the right medical follow-up and guidance. The strict conditions referred to are as follows: The patient is not infected with HIV, but is at increased risk of infection. An increased risk means, for men who have sexual contact with men, that, firstly, there has been unprotected sexual contact with at least two partners in the last six months or that they have had a multiple sexually transmitted disease during the last year and/or have needed several PreEPs. Another condition is that they used psychoactive substances during sexual contact. Other high-risk subjects are people who inject drugs, who share needles........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It should be borne in mind that Truvada PrEP is accompanied by possible and significant side effects. Therefore, initiating such treatment can only be done after a dialogue between the physician and the patient, who will jointly assess the benefit/risk ratio of prophylactic treatment. The repayment of Truvada in this new indication has a number of uncertainties including the number of people who will be considered at risk and the proportion of this population at risk that will be effectively treated as a preventive measure. The duration of PrEP treatment is also difficult to assess to date, as is its effectiveness associated with regular treatment. It was because of these uncertainties related to the use of this antiretroviral in PrEP that it was decided to condition the reimbursement to the prescription of this medicine by a doctor linked to the AIDS Reference Centres having concluded a functional rehabilitation agreement with INAMI. There are eleven of them to date. Thus, it is guaranteed that patients will receive proper medical follow-up and accompaniment. This limitation of reimbursement is also intended to optimize the recording of follow-up data in a register before removing the uncertainties mentioned above. The prescribing physician undertakes to participate in the registration of follow-up data and thus to follow up the patient on a quarterly basis, including other possible sexually transmitted diseases such as syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia and hepatitis C. The prescriber shall also apply for reimbursement to the medical adviser of the insurance institution. The period of validity of the authorisation shall be 12 months. That was also your question, Mr. Senesael. At the end of the 12 months, the application may be renewed for an additional 12 months. Communication on the extension of Truvada's reimbursement is mainly through the AIDS Reference Centres and the RIZIV. Sensoa, la Plate-Forme Prévention Sida, Ex Æquo, as well as other interest groups of the LGBTI community, such as Çavaria and Arc-en-ciel, are committed to communicating the measure, which they enthusiastically welcomed. In addition, it is important to respond to this through the funding of awareness-raising campaigns in the context of health prevention, which is, however, the competence of the Länder. The fact that HIV inhibitors can now also be taken preventively has a budgetary impact. Since the volumes of Truvada use in PrEP are not yet known, the precise budgetary impact of the financing of this new indication is difficult to quantify. However, I can inform you of the current cost for a month of treatment. The public price of a pack of 30 Truvada tablets being 527 euros, the treatment of one month of an ordinary insured will cost 515 euros to the INAMI and 11,90 euros to the patient. For a beneficiary of the increased intervention, it will cost the patient €519 at INAMI and €7.90 at the patient's cost. In addition, it is expected that these costs will be reduced following the entry into the Truvada generic market, which is announced in a few months' time. I can also provide you with estimates made by the firm responsible for the commercialization of Truvada as to the number of patients who could use PrEP in the coming years. Based on the use of PrEP in other countries, the company estimated the number of patients in Belgium at 526 in the last months of 2017, 1,052 in 2018 and 1,578 in 2019. The budgetary impact for 2017 has been estimated at EUR 1 million for 500 patients, taking into account the cost reduction and the fact that a number of other infections are avoided. That budget will increase by 2023. In 2023, this amount will rise to a maximum of €6 million for 2,600 patients. This will allow us to avoid infections. A thousand infections could also be avoided in that year. In addition to the human factor and the fact that one has to avoid infection if one can, given all the personal and social misery involved, the budgetary impact does not outweigh the reduction of the cost of HIV infection. For example, the cost of treating the 18 infections that could be avoided in 2017 is 2.6 million euros. By 2023, more than a thousand infections could be avoided and thus a cost of 157 million for the treatment of that number of infected persons. That doesn't mean we're talking about personal misery. It has been agreed that an evaluation will take place after 36 months. At that time we will also have the necessary data, which were collected through the register, and we will also have more data on the number of packages sold within the PrEP indication. Truvada is also used as a treatment. So we need to know the number of packages sold in the indication of preventive treatment during the first three years of reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u50	Minister, I will remain very modest and very humble. I am not going to say that the question was interesting, but the answer was very instructive. First, it has allowed us to be truly informed of the specific criteria and conditions that are and will apply. Secondly, it is important for the patients concerned to know that the 12-month period can be extended according to the criteria that you have determined, that the budgets that are released are not only for one year, but up to 2023, and that you have, moreover, planned, by projection, the evolutionary costs as well as the aids to be provided. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to thank you for highlighting the financial aspects, the logistical aspects, but above all, the human aspects. Beyond the disease and the care to be given to the sick, there is the support, prevention and consideration of the groups at risk concerned. Among these, there are not only "sexual" groups, there are also groups of injectable drug users, to which you referred, and which are taken into account. The problem as a whole has therefore been well identified, I believe. This is not always the case, but I personally congratulate you and thank you for your interest in this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u51	I can only agree with that, Madam Secretary. I also welcome that evolution. I would also like to thank you for the comprehensive answer, which means that we now know very well how everything is going. I also particularly welcome the close follow-up by the AIDS Reference Centres and the doctors. This will certainly benefit the situation personally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u52	Madam President, Madam Minister, the introduction of the electronic regulation was a difficult start. The programmes were clearly not yet ready for implementation. In the meantime, most childhood diseases would have been taken out of the programmes and the electronic prescription would go well, with large numbers. For paper regulations it was always the case and it is still the case that the validity for repayment is three months. Will this remain the same for electronic regulations? It would be an advantage and an additional incentive for both the care provider and the patient and the validity of the electronic prescription would be extended. What is your position on this? Why is the deadline now three months? This sometimes creates difficulties in practice with regulations which can only be picked up later. In principle, they can be registered at a later date, but I understand from healthcare professionals in the field that far from all software packages allow that. I asked once in a written question how many certificates for reimbursement are generally submitted too late or never, and you did not have any information on them. Will this be the case with the electronic regulation? It doesn't seem unimportant to me to be able to follow that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u53	It is clear that electronic prescription offers benefits. But its implementation can be problematic for general practitioners over 55/60 years of age and for occasional prescribers. You said, a few months ago, that you would make available a solution allowing these prescribers to maintain the paper prescription. Where are we today? I take an extremely illustrative example of the consequences this can have, in particular by causing premature retirements in regions in difficulty. In my region, in the guard sector of Baudour, Sirault, Neufmaison, Hautrage and Villerot, in ten years, out of 26 active general practitioners, 10 have ceased their practice, 5 of which this year. Of the remaining 16, 8 are over 55 years of age and 5 are over 60 years of age. We can already conclude that there will be only 11 general practitioners left in five years. Only one will come as an assistant. The situation is therefore complicated. With the announcement of the mandatory electronic prescription, some decided not to stop as they had expected within 5 years, but earlier if there was no alternative. I would like to put a proposal on the table. While keeping in mind the electronic prescription, a transitional regime for maintaining the paper prescription should be provided, so that this transition is consistent with the deadline for the electronic medical record, which is scheduled for 1 January 2021. This would prevent several hundred doctors from leaving general medicine prematurely. This would also reassure occasional prescribers. For you, this is a good opportunity to restore confidence to general practitioners. You know how much they are at the heart of the first line of care and the organization of health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u54	Traditional paper rules and electronic regulations are currently subject to the same rules on validity. During the last Recipe Steering Group, organized by the RIZIV, the members of the Steering Committee agreed with the proposal that a joint working group of lawyers of the RIZIV and the FAGG should draw up a concrete proposal to extend the validity of a regulation. At the same time, this proposal will also set out a framework to distinguish between refundable and unpaid medicinal products in terms of their period of validity. This proposal will be drawn up during the summer months. Also for electronic regulations it will not be possible to provide the data on the number of requirements that were not collected, i.e. the number of medicinal products delivered before a prescription was drawn up, as these data cannot be derived from the data available in the charging circuit. They weren't paid, so they weren't delivered. The data we get are the data from the medicines, via Farmanet, that have been paid, that have been delivered. That is where we have the same problem. With regard to Ms Fonck's questions, INAMI will provide a solution that will allow sporadic prescribers to write electronic orders in a secure manner. It will be an internet application that will be accessible via the e-Health platform to any health care provider who has the right to prescribe medicines, i.e. general practitioners, specialists, dentists and midwives. Analysis and development are under way. A test phase in real-life situations, prior to effective implementation, is planned so that potential users can verify whether the solution developed is effective and with a view to optimising its operation. The coming into force is scheduled for fall 2017. As for your question about the conditions under which the exception to the paper prescription will remain possible, I can only repeat that it will always be valid for emergencies or in cases where the patient has to obtain his medicine and the prescriber is unable to write the electronic prescription. Therefore, I am not yet considering a date to put an end to this option. For older doctors who, as you say, are still practising in certain areas and do not want to learn this method, I remain open to the search for a solution. We're thinking about it. However, this will not apply to all physicians. We will not grant this facility to those who are twenty-five years old, for example. Having said that, I understand the reluctance of some who are, moreover, good doctors, attentive to their patients. They have sometimes adopted the software, but without making the necessary updates that are requested of them. One has to update every now and then, just like with the computer. Sometimes that's annoying and people don't. I did that this week on my computer in the cabinet and I now have a completely different settlement of my emails, the templates are different and so on. That was a bit annoying at first. I wanted to go back to the last one because I could work faster with that, but I can't do that anymore. I'm 55-plus, too, Mrs. Fonck. I'm very sensitive to this age range. After 55 years, we're about 60!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u55	I am very pleased that it is being considered whether or not the period of validity can be extended. I think it can also bring about a certain saving. For example, a person who needs a rappel for certain vaccinations, such as hepatitis B, can simply receive the prescription from the general practitioner. In this way, there is no need to link additional consultation with matters where this is not strictly necessary. However, I find it strange that it will remain impossible to verify this. In my opinion, there can be two databases, one for rules and one for rules collected. A match between these two databases should be possible. As far as I am concerned, it does not seem uninteresting to follow what was prescribed and not picked up. We may disagree on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u56	Thank you, Madam Minister. When you make a change, like here with the switch to the electronic prescription, you have to accompany it. In accompaniment to change, there is the application component, and that is a good thing. That being said, I would like to recall how important the administrative burden is, even if it is by electronic means. The paper requirement remains valid for emergencies, I know. But you understood that I wanted this to go further, especially for older doctors and occasional prescribers. I have often bothered you with this subject and I am not dissatisfied with it because, for the first time, I feel a real openness in your answer. You agree to consider a solution for older physicians, that is to say, to allow them to keep this possibility until the computer medical record, that is, until January 1, 2021. This would allow older doctors not to run away and I can assure you that we need to keep them, especially in some areas. I gave you an example earlier. In conclusion, I would say that my proposals for a suitable transition and accompaniment are not resistance to change, but pragmatism. To make it a total success, we need pragmatism and adaptation to change. In this way, tomorrow we can have an electronic prescription, but above all the maintenance of general practitioners, even those who will have a problem to adapt, given their age. Thank you. I hope that we will have an act and a final decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u57	Madam President, Madam Minister, I am not entirely clear on this issue just now in the previous question. Madam Minister, you said that it should be a budget-neutral operation, and that seems to me to be the case in the proposal. I'll take this back. So it's about the home pharmacy, which would initially also be there for people with the status chronic disorder. This would be a huge added value for them, both in terms of follow-up, education, follow-up to therapy, establishing reliable medication schedules, etc. It will increase the quality of care, and this for the same budget or even less. It is also a question from the pharmacists themselves. They have rightly said that there is also an advantage for the patients themselves in the case of a GMD, for example in the form of a reduced brake fee. The question is, albeit budget-neutral, whether such a thing can also be introduced for the GFD? One can mention, for example, when awarding a status chronic illness as an additional condition that the patient must register with a household pharmacy. Or one can make a link to the maximum invoice. What is your position? This is already clear to me for a reduced braking rate, but perhaps you can also comment on the other proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u58	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, in the multi-annual framework for the patient with the official pharmacists, there was no provision for an incentive for the patient to identify a home pharmacist. We are convinced that the house pharmacists will not fail to take initiatives that convince their patients of the usefulness of choosing them as a regular home pharmacist. The interpretation of the role as a house pharmacist and its remuneration are also included in a working group of the Committee on the Agreements on Pharmacy and Insurance Institutions. That is what is currently being done. If it considers it necessary, it may propose non-binding recommendations on incentives for patients. I do not think it is impossible for them to happen, but that is in the working group of the Committee on Agreements. This is in the implementation of the multi-annual pact with pharmacists, but it is also in the consultation of the working group of the Committee on Agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u59	Madam Minister, I will pass it on and ask that it be brought to the attention of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u60	Madam President, Minister, I have invested a great deal in this matter not only in politics but already a long time ago with regard to my patients. It has been several years since I submitted various texts and mobilized about the living donation of organs. Today, in view of the reduced availability of organs of dead people, there is a need to move forward and remove obstacles to the living donation of organs. On 2 July 2015, a bill was passed containing various provisions on health, one of which grants the King the possibility of totally or partially abolishing personal intervention in relation to health benefits granted to living organ donors. In November 2016, you issued a press release entitled "Almost More Medical Charges for Live Organ Donors". It seems to me that it is necessary to take stock since you have provided for a whole series of provisions. In addition, I would like to know what about the medical expenses associated with the pre-donor organ check-up, since it is dependent on these people. Will you incorporate these costs into the upcoming royal decree? We must also think about eliminating the financial obstacle, but there are still others, such as work stoppage, which leads to a financial loss, to take only this example. These steps are essential if, tomorrow, we want to have a larger number of live donors and to be able to transplant patients who remain for many months or years on transplant waiting lists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u61	Madam President, Ms Fonck, as noted earlier, this Royal Order is a first step in removing financial barriers to living organ donation and does not include medical costs related to the pre-donation phase, the reasons for which are legal, technical and practical and which must be addressed. This first step is, however, the most important since the measure consists of the removal of the moderator ticket for the donation and follow-up phases representing almost 90% of the amounts of the moderator tickets currently charged by the living donor. It is due to come into force on August 1, 2017. In addition, a transitional measure is provided for beneficiaries who have given an organ for transplantation prior to its entry into force. The following steps will address compensation for costs incurred during the pre-donation phase. A pilot study was carried out in 2011 by Professor Kesteloot according to which this compensation could be in the order of 200 euros. The same would apply to direct non-medical costs and potential loss of income associated with the donation. I repeat that, for my part, the compensation of living donors must be as close as possible to the compensation model for costs incurred, while taking into account the technical difficulties inherent in our health system. A solution was found for 90% of the costs. We will try to find one for the remaining 10%, but the obstacles are real.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u62	Madam Minister, thank you. You announce the Royal Order for August 1, 2017 and you say that there is a transitional measure providing for retroactivity for those who were transplanted before it came into force. But until when? For 2017 or later in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u63	I have to check because it's been too long since I saw him pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u64	Would that be an abuse if I asked you to send me a small e-mail so that I could notify transplant teams? Thank you for this information. On the other hand, I would like to go back to the 90% of the costs you say they are covered. This applies only to persons who will be selected as effective and who can give an organ. You know as well as I do that throughout the organ pre-donation balance, a number of people will not be retained because of incompatibility or contraindication due to a health problem. For those who are not detained, your Royal Order does not provide for any financial support. However, the first stage of the pre-donation balance sheet is crucial. Indeed, as soon as the procedure is initiated, the state of mind is often positive. The initial brake is the apprehension of the balance sheet, which makes hospitalisation necessary and therefore the submission to examinations. This represents a high budget. That is why I would like to stress this point with you. In this regard, I thank you on behalf of the patients who remain on the transplant waiting lists for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u65	We will come back to that when we consider the bills and resolutions that are provided for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u66	Madam Minister, an investigation conducted by the RIZIV recently revealed that in 2016 care providers, doctors, nurses and hospitals did not fraud for just 5.3 million by knowingly charging too much for certain treatments, such as night rates for daytime consultation or for cares that have not even happened. This fraud seems to me to be symptomatic of the organisation of our health care, which, in our view, is too much performance-oriented and too little patient-oriented. In fact, I think I asked you a similar question last year. The RIZIV brings those figures out on a regular basis. Madam Minister, I am convinced, together with my group, that we need to think of introducing a more flat-rate system rather than our advanced performance medicine. This will increase tariff security and could also significantly reduce fraud. Such a system can make medicine cheaper both for the individual and for social security. What is your position on that? Following the new figures, are you thinking of using more people and resources to combat fraud? If so, what measures do you intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u67	It is true that according to the figures of the RIZIV for EUR 5 million, care providers were fraudulent. This also means that many care providers behave correctly. That has to be said. Five million out of the total amount involved in the provision of care remains 5 million and each euro is too much. I do not think, however, that this is one of the areas in which most of the problems are felt. You say there are many advantages to flat-rate financing. The efficient and well-thought-out use of flat-rate financing of medical benefits can indeed be a possible response to certain forms of misuse and misuse. There have been extensive actions in recent years, including the financing of hospitals. Let's think about the drug overdose for hospitalized patients and a forfait for medical imaging or clinical biology. From 1 July 2018, a forward-looking financing of certain low variable hospital rooms will be introduced for which a standard procedure is required. That procedure is almost the same for patients as for hospitals and it requires a standard process of care that differs little between patients and hospitals. The reasons for choosing flat-rate funding are mainly related to administrative simplification, budget management and patient transparency. Indeed, patients often complain that they do not know exactly what several items on their invoice were charged for. However, there are also disadvantages with regard to flat-rate financing. One has to do with risk selection, among other things. One could decide in a hospital not to place a new hip, because there is too much comorbidity. Flat-rate funding must certainly not lead to risk selection; it is not a panacea, but it can be targeted. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service at the RIZIV has been investigating fraud and unnecessary expenditure in the healthcare sector for years. The recently published contributions are in line with the results of recent years. On my initiative, an action plan was developed in 2016 with 35 concrete anti-fraud or anti-fraud projects. This is about the Health Care Plan 2016-2017. The RIZIV is currently implementing that plan. The execution is closely monitored. There is also an evaluation of the impact of the plan. Important in this respect is that the prescriber behavior is also reviewed. For example, we have found care providers who have performed a great deal in home nursing, so-called outliers or exceptions, which deliver so much performance that we can ask ourselves whether they are at home long enough and whether they have 36 hours instead of 24 hours in a day. Targeted investigations have been carried out and the beneficiaries have had to repay the sums paid. On that line we continue. There are healthcare providers who work well. They don't have to be afraid. There's so many of them. We both agree on that. However, anyone who takes a stroll, inventively deals with public money and ensures that public money benefits him or her, without the necessary performance in patients or sufficient quality performance, we will get everywhere out of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u68	Madam Minister, I fully agree with what you have said, namely that the vast majority of caregivers are, fortunately, acting correctly. I'm glad to hear you're working on a health care enforcement policy that you're implementing. We will certainly follow up on the results. Indeed, you have already made a number of care provision flat-rate. We believe that the system can be extended further. We shall follow that up too. I am also pleased to hear that they will be placed before their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u69	Mrs Fonck proposed that Mr Frédéric should wait for item 15 of the agenda, namely the reimbursement of immunoglobulins. Question No 18858 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u70	Madam Secretary, I have a very short question. A few months ago, you announced a moratorium on district health centres, which would be subject to an audit. I would like to ask about the state of play. Has the audit already been granted? What will be the content and what aspects will be examined? What period will the audit run over? What about the moratorium that was due to expire on 30 June? Is that still true? Or will the applications be re-examined from 1 July? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u71	Madam Minister, my question focused more on the problem of the district health centre in Menen, where recognition continued to drag on for a very long time and was not clear. I understand that in the meantime the recognition has been approved and signed. This question therefore lapses, but of course I am listening with a great deal of attention to the answers to the questions of other fellow Members, who are more generally concerned with the moratorium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u72	Minister, my question is indeed more general. I have never considered it necessary to have a moratorium in order to be able to carry out the audit you requested on the adequacy of the allocation of lump sum grants to the actual needs and expenses of medical homes. This moratorium is to last until 30 June this year. According to my information, the award of the public contract for the conduct of this audit was only formalized on 24 May. Minister, why is there such a delay in awarding this procurement that was already scheduled for November 2016? You were talking about this in the preparation of the 2017 budget. Can you assure us that the moratorium will be lifted on 30 June? It would be interesting to have information on the terms of reference, i.e. the content of the audit, and the method used to conduct the audit. It's June 21, maybe it's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the audit mandate was submitted to the RIZIV General Management Committee on 22 May and to the Insurance Committee on 29 May. The audit has now been effectively launched. The auditing body, the RIZIV and my policy cell have worked hard to realize the start-up phase. The completion of the final report is scheduled for November 2017 at the latest. As far as the Menen District Health Center is concerned, an investigation has been carried out. There has been consultation with the district health centre and also a necessary consultation with the other care providers there. That was really necessary. The report showed that. I said: if there is support for this and if it is discussed with the other care providers and there is no half-war between doctors, nurses and physicists, then that is good for me. So that has already started and those people are aware of it. As regards the moratorium, I would remind you once again of the notification of the government's decision of 20 October 2016. It says: "In anticipation of the results of the audit, no medical records will be approved for homes and the budget will be frozen. However, within the available budget, further applications with date of entry into force from 1 January may be approved, provided that the dossier was submitted to the RIZIV before 8 October 2016.' This concerns all applications that have been made before 8 October 2016 and that meet the conditions. People did not meet the conditions, but there have been further talks. It's always the application that counts. The application was covered by this notification and then Menen can also get the approval, but we have a notification that refers to the budget. We only now have the preliminary figures of the Monitoring Committee and the Insurance Committee. This has certainly not been the last word on the subject. With regard to the cahier de charge, Madam President, I think it is similar to that for the audit of the guards: I am thinking of the nature of the quality of care, the continuity of care, the cost-efficiency of the guards, the financial flows of the RIZIV associated with it, and so on. I don't have the list on me, but I think it's an audit like the one for the guards. It has proved very useful. I'm the first to regret the delay. This is because the administration has waited too long to issue and assign the audit mandate. Once we have pointed this out, there has been cooperation. I'm not at the precinct. I'm not sitting next to the administration. The decision dates from 20 October 2016. We could have worked on this more quickly. If the audit had been ordered faster, we'd have had it sooner. I am the first to regret this, but I have nothing to say about it myself. I do not know if it was intentional and it was expected that the decision would be forgotten. There was a notification of the decision and I'm someone who does everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u74	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I, too, deeply regret the delay. As you know, I did not consider the audit to be necessary at this stage. However, I note that we will see the results in November 2017. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that this is the reason why I did not consider it necessary at this stage that experts in an earlier screening have already made it very clear that the quality of the district health centres is usually high and that they combine with cheaper care for the patient and cheaper social security. At least we'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u75	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The problem of delivery in November 2017 has, as I have already mentioned, resulted in a number of district health centres that had approval, which are still in the pipeline and are now covered by the moratorium, being able to count on money from certain county authorities, but that money is probably now completely lost. However, that money is very important for their infrastructure. When there is a delivery in November 2017, I cannot imagine that the district health centres that are in the pipeline and in that case will be approved in December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u76	Minister, I hear you regret this huge delay. Regrets, however, are not enough. As I indicated in my question, it was scheduled for October last. The tool for this audit was not approved until the end of May. I will review our discussions during the budgetary debates, but I have agreed that the moratorium - the period during which the audit was to be carried out - should end at the end of June. But you tell us that, as long as there is an audit, there will be a freeze. This means that the moratorium will extend throughout this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u77	No, that's your interpretation. I repeat the notification. Pending the results of the audit, no records for medical homes are approved and the budget is frozen, but within the available budget... A budget was still available. Within the available budget, new applications could still be approved with the date of entry into force from 1 January 2017. In other words, despite the fact that the audit had not been completed, applications could still be approved if they had been submitted in good time and there was still a budget available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u78	Minister, how do you want the actors on the ground to be there? When you meet the federations of medical homes, you realize that they don't have that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u79	It's a notification. Everyone has that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u80	No, I'm sorry! If you question all parliamentarians and actors on the ground, there is indeed a moratorium. Applications are processed in order before October 8. There is the date of June 30 and the new applications. Here, you open a door saying that depending on budget availability, new requests may eventually be processed. Parliamentary questions are also used to disseminate information. But, somewhere, it is not correct either that federations or medical homes have no more information. They only know when the specifications or the audit have been formalized and do not know what will happen next. This date of 30 June for the moratorium is included in our trade. But you say that there may still be funds or budgetary margins. Does that mean that the freeze will end on 30 June and that new files may therefore be allowed, even if the audit is not completed? Or, apart from a few exceptions, do you intend to continue the moratorium until the results of this audit are published, in which case we will end up at the end of 2017? I also think that we should make public the way in which the items are made, so that we know, as well as the actors, exactly what this is about. As far as the duty stations are concerned, in your reply last week, you told us that you had consulted the duty stations and that the other medical organizations, for example, who wanted to give information or advice, did so without having been asked. We didn't consult them. I therefore believe that, in this case, it would be positive to make this public so that the various actors are aware of and may also be able to react to the work being done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u81	We're not doing the audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u82	Yes, but the way you use the tool and make it public are some of the requirements you may have for the audit you order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u83	This was to go before the INAMI Management Committee and the Insurance Committee. We have a government commissioner there. It's the health care providers, the health insurance funds that sit there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u84	But you're asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u85	Yes! I have to manage the budget and I find an amount of $18 million to be abnormal. There's a study from 2008... It's been an eternity. EUR 18 million for which there is no responsibility, I do not think that is good governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u86	Everyone agreed on an audit request! To be well done, an audit must be built collectively. You have to agree on the tool and the method before you get to work. You have added a moratorium and we are late, which is a problem if there is no transparency and dissemination of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u87	I would like to say that we are going to be far beyond the structure of questions and answers here. This is more like an exchange of views. We may be able to deal with this in the appropriate committee meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u88	No more than for some previous questions. It is not because a question displeases you that it must be considered longer!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u89	That has never been a criterion, but there are five minutes for the questions and it is certainly inappropriate to continue to address them as President, especially if you point out to other Members that one reply is possible and that further questions can still be addressed in more detail. The content of the questions has nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u90	I'll be back, Madam President. Some say they're coming back, but they don't. I'll be back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u91	Yes, we're waiting for you. Objectively, Mrs Van Camp, this issue has not been dealt with much longer than that of others who were asked this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u92	Minister, if I come back to you, it is because there are new and complementary elements. I've called you before. I also voted on a motion with an alternative proposal last May, since in April, a decision had been taken to abolish the reimbursement of immunoglobulins for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, as other immunodeficiency syndromes could still benefit from it, including immunodeficiency syndromes either primary or acquired as part of the administration of certain types of medicines. At that time, I had pleaded that patients who are already under treatment, even though they have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome from which you exclude the continuation of the authorization for reimbursement of medicines, could, on the basis of the individual file, in connection with the medical consultant and a doctor of the Belgian Primary Lmmunodeficiency Group (BPIG), continue their treatment, but on the basis of an authorisation. Two things seem important to me. The first is that some of these patients who are no longer entitled to reimbursement, while they have sometimes been treated for several years, have gone to their referral physicians, some of whom are members of the OPIG. These OPIG doctors who follow them told them not only that the doctor will no longer be reimbursed, but they also confirmed that for their particular case there was no alternative. These patients are therefore faced with a cessation of reimbursement for this treatment. I remind you that these are excessively high costs. For those who do not have the means - the majority of them - they are therefore confronted with the pure and simple cessation of treatment with, at the key, a number of significant infectious complications to come and therefore new hospitalizations very likely. On the other hand, you justified this change in repayment conditions on the basis of a substantial increase in the budget. In 2007, it stood at EUR 31 million and increased to EUR 79 million in 2016. I asked you why. You didn't answer me. In the meantime, I repeat this question with two objectives. The first is to inform us about the evolution and why of this increase in the budget. This treatment is not given lightly since it is a heavy intravenous or subcutaneous treatment. It's heavy for patients. On the other hand, in view of the return of the OPIG doctors, I would like to go back to you to ask for a special measure for patients who, today, are already being treated and who, on an individual basis from the examination of their file, could benefit, if justified, from the authorisation and the continuation of the authorization of reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u93	Madam President, Minister, I would also like to return to this dossier, albeit not as regards the adjustment of the conditions for reimbursement. You have already answered this very clearly and clearly in a previous question, with the scientific findings on which the adjustment of the conditions for reimbursement is based. Moreover, the organisation to which the previous speaker also refers fully supports this. They also believe that people are entitled to treatment which, according to the scientific guidelines, is best for them. I'd like to come back to the communication. We've been indicting them extensively. It is clear from the many emails I receive that this is still a working point. I don't care who plays or should play the role in it, and I don't, but I do think it's important that people get the right information. I know that you, as Minister and former GP, are also very interested, but are you prepared to provide another express communication for the treating doctors, with the explicit request to inform and refer their patients correctly? In the field we hear that some treating doctors do not refer their patients to such a BPIDG doctor, but simply carry out the treatment themselves because they assume that the patient is no longer eligible. That's what worries people. It would therefore be better for everyone to refer patients to know whether or not it is scientifically justified for them to receive treatment. I come to the people who are being treated today and are ultimately told by their doctor that the treatment is not appropriate for them according to the scientific guidelines, and will therefore no longer be reimbursed. As far as they are concerned, can you tell us exactly what the treatment they have already had, in particular before October 2017 or before they have ended up with that doctor? Will they be repaid or not? We also discussed the possibility of making an appointment in good time. I also took the test myself and in some centres there is indeed no waiting list at all and one can go very quickly, even in August, for an appointment. At some other centers, the first possible appointment is only in November. Are people supposed to drive hundreds of miles? I do not think that would be very desirable. Can there be an exception for those persons? Or can the deadline be revised so that everyone can go to the nearest BPIDG doctor? I also have a practical question that patients are asking. Is it true that the application for refund of immunoglobulins should be made only through the hospital pharmacy? Is it true that the patient does not receive a written confirmation of the refund approval and that the BPIDG certificate itself can therefore be considered a valid guarantee certificate? Can you ensure that the period of validity is explicitly stated or remains valid? Ultimately, a diagnosis of primary immune efficiency cannot change. I also have a question about the course of events. How many patients suffer from the disease? How many patients have already been forwarded and have already been able to visit a specialist physician? Do you have any idea how many patients have received treatment before, but they will not receive treatment from now on? Can you assure everyone, regardless of primary or secondary immune efficiency, that the refund for treatment with immunoglobulins is guaranteed until the end of the repayment period? After all, there are patients who currently have an approval until, for example, November 2017 or even January 2018. Can you instruct the doctors to inform their patients in writing until how long their current approval for reimbursement runs? Can you instruct the RIZIV to give clear instructions to the sickness funds, or has that already happened? I have seen communications from people with their health insurance fund, where they were not given any information at all and reference was made to the RIZIV. The sickness funds are working on many things that they should not be concerned with. A real task for me is the provision of information; therefore, I ask that they be sufficiently informed so that they can inform the patient in turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u94	Dear colleagues, prior to the group review in 2013, each specialty of normal immunoglobulins had its paragraph in Chapter 4 and its conditions of reimbursement, including all indications of reimbursement for the specialty. For the period prior to January 1, 2014, it is therefore impossible to distinguish the use by refundable indication. During the group review in 2013, the logic of the European legislation for the registration of reimbursable indications of normal human immunoglobulins was followed. The basic indications were included in a common paragraph, No 6790/100, the reimbursement of the toxic shock of streptococcal origin in paragraph 6790/100 or 6790/200, the reimbursement of multifocal motor neuropathy in paragraph 6790/300, and for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculopathy in paragraph 6790/400. As the refundable information in your question is part of the paragraph ending in 100, it will again not be possible to distinguish the use by refundable indication. If no reimbursable pathology, according to the paragraph ending in 100, is retained in the patient concerned, continued treatment with normal human immunoglobulins will no longer be possible at the end of the period of validity of this authorisation. In dialogue with the patient and depending on the pathology concerned, treating physicians will choose another therapeutic option. So it won't be done for all patients, Mrs. Van Camp. Those who are still entitled to a refund will be able to go further. Your other questions are mainly of a numerical nature. At the RIZIV people fell out of the sky. No figures were available yet. Of course, you also play very briefly on the ball. We will provide those answers in writing. You ask about the number of patients, how many of them have to switch over and the like. I have also heard on the ground that some people are just getting a call saying that they should not come to their appointment, even if they still had a refund. They just get the phone the day before saying they shouldn't come because they won't meet the conditions, without further explanation. I don't think this is possible. We know, if there is still a refund, that it can be carried out while the necessary investigations are being carried out. On the basis of the file, the necessary applications can be made. People need an honest explanation. I am thinking primarily of the people who prescribed this, of course in consultation with the general practitioner. People then naturally turn to the mutualities, who in turn appeal to the RIZIV. I agree with you, as I said at the beginning, that the information on the RIZIV website was not so clear and not so readable. They used very official language and we pointed it out to them. In the meantime, the information has been adapted somewhat, but may need to be further adapted and supplemented if further questions are to be raised. I also think it should be as clear as possible. That is what we are trying to do; that is what we have asked for. As far as the number of patients is concerned, we have already seen how they can verify this, but that still needs to be examined further. For example, they can look at the number of daily day doses. This is to get an idea of the evolution of this number 100 for a specified period of time. We will ask to see what the number of daily doses is, to get an idea of the evolution of the number. Now that we hear who prescribed all this, we are not sure what the precise indication was. The issue is not only that the budget rose exponentially, but also that we are not sure whether it was evidence-based for all the people who got it. There is also a limited stock of immunoglobulins. We want to make sure that the patients who really depend on them can get them. If you ask for figures in writing, I will answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u95	Minister, you say that the increase in the budget is due to a bad prescription and a bad indication. I find this conclusion a little quick. You have a budget increase in recent years, but remember that the use of monoclonal immunotherapy antibodies has been clearly increased. You know that this is the cause of immunoglobulinemia syndromes and that, as a result, these patients have benefited from treatment because they develop immunodeficiency syndrome secondary to this treatment. So I am absolutely not following you when you say that the explosion of 255% in nine years is due to bad prescriptions and bad indications. You'll have to show me that again! Then you remind me of the rules. I know the rules. I have a very simple question. Let us take patients who are now treated with human immunoglobulins and who, however, are not in the famous category 6790/100. They went to an OPIG doctor who told them that this treatment should be continued, that there is no alternative. What are we doing with these patients? They're called "wonderful." So you're going to have a huge fee. They'll come back, they'll have complications and they'll be rehospitalized. Minister, I propose that they not be automatically given an extension of reimbursement. A specific procedure must be allowed that truly guarantees an inevitable indication of this treatment for patients who are demonstrated by the physician-advisor and the OPIG physician to continue treatment because there is no alternative, and otherwise these patients are at risk of complications, infections or repeated hospitalizations. I call on you to look at this proposal because I think you can recognize that this will not necessarily be a bad choice in terms of budget and it will be positive for the patient in terms of quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u96	In any case, it is a good start that you recognise and are aware of the problem, in particular the problem of patients who are no longer referred and who are coldly rejected for their treatment, without explanation or without an alternative. I think that is positive, but it is not clear to me what effect you will have on that. Is there going to be a new communication for the attending doctors? I would certainly recommend that, especially in such sensitive matters, after the testimonies on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u97	I've also heard many times that the doctors hadn't read the communication. They just read the paper. On that basis, they said, even if there was still an authorisation, that one should not come anymore or that they should not give it to De Block anymore. If that is an expert explanation, which reflects the doctor-patient relationship, then I find that very disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u98	I've seen communications like this. I can only regret that and ask that there be a new communication. I'm not saying who's to blame for not getting the information to the patient, but maybe a reminder will help. I understand from your answer to the honourable Member's question that the reimbursement is and will continue to run until October 2017, or with another certificate until another date, and that there will be no exception for people who do not get an appointment before October. As far as the application in the hospital pharmacy is concerned, the procedure is still not clear to me. I assume that the question I have asked is also correct, in particular that there should be no written confirmation, but that this procedure is common practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u99	Questions No 18864 and No 18865 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and question No 18868 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u100	Madam Secretary, I've been following the projects of mHealth and Telehealth for a long time. There are pilot projects, too. They were supposed to be completed after six months. In the meantime, have they been completed? How'd that go? What results can be derived from this? What policy changes can we expect from this? Will, for example, apps or teleconsultations that have a favourable cost-benefit ratio be refundable in future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u101	The project call was launched on 1 July 2016 and ended on 30 September 2016. Ninety-eight files were filed at the time. Between the beginning of October and the end of October 2016, a jury, consisting of members of the administration, selected 24 projects. The period between December 2016 and February 2017 was used to discuss the projects considered, for example in relation to the budgetary aspects or to bring together projects with a similar content of different people. Between February 2017 and May 2017, the projects were proposed to the RIZIV Insurance Committee to have the agreements with the 24 projects approved. The first projects started in February 2017, others started later. All projects last six months. The final assessment will be for early 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u102	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u103	Madam Minister, you committed yourself in the coalition agreement to defining, together with the Länder, concrete health objectives, on which we can work together, for example, on the collective health of the population. What's the status? Have consultation meetings been held and which are still planned? What are the selected health objectives? How will you work on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u104	Ms Van Camp, the Knowledge Centre will list the existing federal health objectives by the end of 2017 on the basis of the objectives set out in the Federal Policy Note on the basis of the health objectives set by international organisations such as the World Health Organisation and the European Commission. In addition, on the basis of the performance report, the KCE will also formulate a proposal for possible healthcare objectives. In addition to providing a list of possible health objectives, there will also be a comparative study between countries with different methodological approaches to the definition of health objectives. The main objective is primarily to improve the health status of the population, which is expressed in the number of years in good health. Furthermore, we also aim to reduce existing health inequalities and to meet international commitments made by Belgium, such as the 2020 targets. Each Region and each Community is also invited to participate in the realisation of the set of federal health objectives to be determined. This consultation will, of course, have to take place through the Inter-Ministerial Conference. A number of issues have already been discussed through the Inter-Ministerial Conference, but at administrative level. After all, there is always a lot of work ahead of us before a protocol agreement comes out of the box. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u105	Madam Secretary, this is another file that I have been following up on for a very long time. The commitment to upgrade the nursing profession is explicitly included in the government agreement. One part of this concerns the transposition of the EU directive in this area. What measures have you already taken to enhance the nursing profession? What are you planning and what is the timetable? What about the transposition of the EU directive? Specifically as far as HBO5 is concerned, the question arises as to whether this is already fully regulated. Will this training continue to lead to the title of nurse and is the recognition dossier complete? Will someone with an HB05 diploma be recognised as a nurse throughout Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u106	The chalk lines were signed at the Health Care Occupations start conference in September 2016. The whole cohort of nurses is one of the health care professions in the Royal Decree 78. The aim will be to strengthen nurse autonomy, including through an open, dynamic and positive definition of the profession. The concept of "functional autonomy' has been introduced. This means that, depending on the context and the health situation, nurses will also be given the opportunity to play a leading role in care planning. We move away from the hierarchy that the doctor determines, for example, what the wound care professional should use, while he probably knows better through the formation and experience which care needs a lying wound or another wound. In addition, the initiative is also to review the well-known lists of actions and to move earlier on to guidelines for good and evidentiary nursing practices. Of course, these guidelines should be developed in conjunction with the field of work and with experts. As far as the timetable is concerned, there is a public consultation on the Royal Decree 78. The comments on this concept are mostly positive. The greatest fear of threshold has been established by the doctors. They're afraid to let go of their former hierarchical position. Then they were at the top of the pyramid. Certain political actors also fear an infringement of the medical primacy. My vision is that providers such as doctors and nurses should work complementaryly with respect for each other's professional autonomy and expertise, but not in a particular hierarchy where the doctor always knows better. It's a wrong idea that the doctor always knows better. If that is the case, then it is, but it is already known, for example, that in residential care, specially trained nurses with the experience they have had often had more cheese than certain doctors. Finally, in June 2016, the European Directive 2013/55, which lays down the minimum training requirements and competences of widely employable nurses, was transposed into the law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions. The visa of nurse can be obtained with a certificate of conformity, regardless of whether this is the fruit of an education in a professional school, a college or an academic institution. It is the Communities that must ensure compliance with European conditions. As you know, certain measures have been taken in Wallonia. I also sent a letter to the Flemish Community, for the HBO5 training programmes, to my colleague, Minister Crevits. It has written back to me that the training as it is now organized is in accordance with the European legal requirements. This will enable HBO5 nurses to continue to perform their duties and are within the European framework required.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u107	That's clear, thank you. As far as the upgrading of nurses is concerned, we should be able to allocate the necessary funds. We are taking the path very well, especially in the last budgetary exercise with the measures you have taken to ensure better care for less money and to free up budgets to tackle waste in healthcare. The dark clouds surrounding the budget are now being fully cleared up: this must certainly allow us to clear up the necessary budgets in the longer term, which must then be used as a priority for nursing. As far as home care is concerned, fees should be raised or at least a thorough review should be carried out. As far as the nurses in the hospital are concerned, I see above all a great need for more hands on the bed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u108	Questions No 18891 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 18896 by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u109	Madam Minister, from 1 July, pregnant women will have to pay up to EUR 8.68 for the NIPT test. For women who are entitled to an increased allowance, the test is even completely free. That is a big step forward, because today's test costs EUR 290. Let it be clear that I consider the measure to be a very good thing. However, several organisations, such as Downsyndrome Flanders and CM, have reservations about the measure. The ethical concerns are left to the question of what they are. What I do wonder is whether certain general practitioners will not be confronted much with a matter that they were not doing before or less. You don't think there should be guidelines for doctors? You have said that it is not necessary for every doctor to know his profession. I am convinced of that, but this is about something that not all doctors have experience with. If I understand correctly, the NIPT tests of university centers detect more chromosomal abnormalities than the commercial labs. If you regulate the reimbursement, should there not be any measures to regulate that aspect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u110	Madam Minister, I can also very much appreciate the positive reactions you have received. Making the NIPT test accessible is a good thing and deserves appreciation. The fact that you are allocating EUR 15 million to the measure is worth the money for the objective you are aiming for, but there are indeed ethical concerns, which have been widely addressed in the media and which are raised by various organisations. In a broader perspective, we also find that society still has a wrong view of what life with disabilities means, for example, what the ageing of a child with down syndrome means. The question of how to deal with the new possibilities offered by a NIPT test is much broader than a question about making that test accessible. It is about how we deal with disabilities in our society and we are missing that dimension in the current proposals. As I understand from the coverage, any doctor would be allowed to carry out the test and accompany the future parents in it. Is that interpretation correct? If yes, what assessment have you made of the competences of doctors in this area, as parents themselves experience great differences in this area today? Are you considering a training course for some kind of reference doctors and gynecologists, so that in the long term there is a guarantee that the necessary competences are present? Does it exist yet? How much of the EUR 15 million that has been promised will you pay for this? People with disabilities often also require multidisciplinaryness. In order to arrive at a neutral and respectful approach, the Down Syndrome Society calls for a multidisciplinary framework. Is the commitment and development of this multidisciplinary approach also part of your plans? In what way? What will you do in concrete terms? Today it's about the NIPT test, tomorrow it might be another test. Where does prenatal screening take us? How do we prepare our society for the ethical dilemmas in this respect? How do we prepare parents for possible choices? What steps are you taking to shape this social debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u111	Madam Minister, the reimbursement of the NIPT test announced by you has caused many opinionators to crawl into their pen. It dealt with the social dimension, that risk groups can now also have the test carried out almost free of charge, but also the ethical aspects, in particular how we deal with disabilities in our society. One aspect is not subordinate to another, it is simply of a different order. First of all, I should like to welcome your measure, without any reservations. For me, any measure that can reduce the health gap is a good measure, and that is also your duty as Minister of Health. Of course, it is also up to you, me and us, to open up the debate more widely, to the ethical issues. It is a fact that the number of prenatal tests has only increased. Young pregnant couples undergo an increasing battery of tests. Most tests are routine, such as blood and urine tests, growth tests and ultrasound tests, but among them more and more new tests of a different order are creeping, which are more related to early detection of a number of disabilities. It goes without saying that gynecologists, general practitioners and midwife must be trained not only to perform the test correctly and, above all, to interpret it, but also to discuss the consequences of screening with future parents in advance. I have missed the debate on patients' rights throughout this debate, while the proper application of the law on patients' rights can also solve the issues raised in the NIPT test debates. Madam Minister, do you agree with me that the right to information in a clear language, the informed consent before the test is carried out, is a prerequisite for extending that test? Can you guarantee that care providers are adequately trained to do so? Unfortunately, the practice proves otherwise. What will you do about it? Do you agree with me that the right to non-knowing is also a right not to know in advance that a child with down syndrome will be born absolutely deserves all respect and does not have to result in debt induction? If so, how do you intend to achieve this? Do you agree with me that the article on the right to high-quality care, still such a patient's right, is very important in the law on patients' rights and that therefore children with down syndrome should, of course, be given the best care at all times, even in the future, even after a generalised introduction of the NIPT test? As we celebrate patient rights for 15 years this year and the figures of the federal ombudsmen show that the law is still not sufficiently known to both patients and caregivers, it is high time to step up on this issue. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u112	Madam Minister, at the beginning of June, a carte blanche published in the press and signed by ten specialists in the multidisciplinary management of trisomy 21 was addressed directly to you. Through this publication, the signatories reported that for the past 12 years, hundreds of children and adolescents carrying this genetic anomaly have been subject to comprehensive and regular medical follow-up by teams of specialists working in multidisciplinarity. Such follow-up is essential for these people with Down syndrome, since it helps to prevent possible complications and helps to promote the development of their autonomy as well as their social inclusion. They regret, however, that their work is not fully recognized and that they cannot benefit from additional resources for the organization of multidisciplinary consultations for children with developmentalally retarded genetic disorders requiring a multidisciplinary approach. Madam Minister, we can only welcome your decision to spend EUR 15 million annually on the reimbursement of the prenatal test for Down syndrome 21. In this context, could you first tell us whether all women will be able to benefit from the reimbursement of this NIPT test or whether specific conditions will have to be met? Furthermore, as the signatories of the white card mentioned above recall, the health status and quality of life of children with this genetic anomaly require specific and specialized follow-up. However, in the absence of public support, it is the hospitals themselves and private funds that have to bear the additional wage burden of organising these multidisciplinary consultations. This situation would no longer be sustainable in the long term. Would you therefore be inclined to make INAMI recognize the practice of specialists who work in multidisciplinarity in the follow-up of people with Down syndrome? Could specific funding finally be made available to support them in their work? Finally, can you tell us whether, following the publication of this white card, meetings with the care professionals concerned as well as with the patient associations are envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u113	Thank you for all your questions. First of all, I remain convinced, like you, that the introduction of a general reimbursement of the NIPT test is a step forward for everyone. One option was to do it only for patients at risk, while it is known that half of the cases of trisomy 21 are detected in women who are not at risk. An important personal contribution of EUR 100 or 150, as was said earlier, would not have been possible for a certain group of women. In this way, we would have once again widened the gap between being born healthy in certain socio-economic circumstances or not. That's why I wanted the refund for everyone. There is still a price difference for the preferred beneficiaries, but that is about a few euros. The vast majority of pregnant women are already being tested for trisomy 21. This can happen with the triple test, from fourteen weeks, an older test, which is less accurate and which I always requested at the time, or with the combined first trimser screening. These tests, which detect certain parameters in the blood, together with the data from an ultrasound of the fruit and the age of the pregnant woman, calculate a statistical risk to carry or not a child with trisomy 21. So that was a potentially prenatal study, with a number of false positive results, which meant that a couple had to make very painful considerations. The study was supplemented by an amniotic puncture; the large number of amniotic punctures carried out provoked fifty miscarriages each year. There were also false negative results, resulting in personal drama episodes, because after a good test a child with trisomy 21 was born. So there were always ethically difficult questions. Then we were able to replace the little accurate test with all the painful sensitivities related to it with a more accurate test, the NIPT test, which can really recognize the genetic sequence if there is a trisomy 21. It shows an accuracy of 98.8 %, which reduces the risk of false negative testing and makes the risk of false positive testing virtually negligible, in such a way that unnecessary punctures or amniocenteses can be avoided, and that for everyone. That was a condition for me. It is evident that the application for such a test by the general practitioner, the treating gynecologist or in a centre where the midwife is multidisciplinaryly surrounded can only be made after information has been given to the persons concerned and after consultation with the couple on the medical and ethical context of the test. That seems obvious to me. It's just every patient's right to be informed and certainly about such a case. I've followed a lot of pregnant women myself. It is in the beginning that all this explanation is needed. To this day, that was the doctor's job. The previous test involved a statistical calculation based on three factors, including age. It was already difficult for those involved to see that the risk could be calculated statistically. In the NIPT test one will investigate the genetic material of the fruit and one will know it that way. So the explanation will be simpler anyway. It goes without saying that a couple should be asked if it wants such a test. Of course, Mrs. Dedry, we have the right to refuse that test. I always said to my patients, if they wanted to do the test, they shouldn't discuss it at the time when they needed to prick. They should think about it and discuss with their partner what to do with the test results. If people say that the child is welcome anyway, they do not have to take the test. Then one has the right not to do the test and the right not to know. If the test is to be carried out, then there is also the opportunity to decide, after receiving an unfavourable result, whether to continue or terminate the pregnancy. We have a better test that is paid back for everyone and at two times pregnant women have a choice. Let them do the test or not and what will they do when they know the results of the test? I think it is very important that they have the full right to self-determination and that care providers should always have the informed consent before carrying out the test on a pregnant woman. The principles of information provision and counselling are not changed, because we will use a much more performant test from 1 July. Today, many of the tests are already being carried out at the cost of the torque itself. I have met several couples who tell me that it has cost them 350 or 290 euros, but who are satisfied that they have done it and are satisfied that the test will be refunded before the next pregnancy, or who are satisfied with the pregnant women who will be able to get it reimbursed. Some insurance institutions also intervened through supplementary insurance. In view of the fact that our decision is scientifically substantiated and the test is more accurate, I think it is more correct that the test is reimbursed by ordinary sickness insurance and the reimbursement is not dependent on the connection with one or the other sickness insurance fund or supplementary health insurance. So we can assume that trained general practitioners, gynecologists and midwifes, who are doing their job, know what the test is and what the method is. If there are any other issues to be considered in education, I have to refer them to colleagues in the Länder. Any complaints in this area should be dealt with there. I do not think that we should provide additional training. Doctors, midwifes and gynecologists who take their profession seriously and who are supposed to learn lifelong and adapt to the current state of medical science, we should not go back to additional schools. They can also always make this an item in further training. This may also be covered by the Ethics section, which, in the past at least, was a highly desirable category for accreditation and in which few lessons were given. I always want to talk about this myself. It goes without saying that the right to quality care for any child must be absolutely guaranteed, a fortiori for children who experience more problems than others. I'm thinking of those with Down syndrome. As I have just explained, this reimbursement measure does not change the ethical and ethical principles on which our health care is based. Mr Senesael, I read in the press that a budget had been promised by Mrs Onkelinx to certain multidisciplinary teams. I didn't know until then, just as I didn't know they'd never benefited from it. So I'll check it out. In any case, I can tell you that we have already made a great deal of efforts to ensure health care for people with Down syndrome 21. Technological progress gives rise to wider ethical debates on the framework of prenatal screening. We should not have waited for the test to be put in place to conduct these ethical debates. Those ethical debates have been coming for some time now, from the moment one was unravelling the human genome and one can see from someone's genome what diseases one can develop in ten years' time, in twenty years' time and which one can't. That's the ethical debate. That is an important debate for me. However, we must not wait for the introduction of a better test to conduct this debate. It is good that it has been there, I have not interfered with it, because I have heard some of the larger philosophers at work, one better or more delicate than the other. I also asked the Advisory Committee on Bioethics for an opinion on the recent opinion of the High Health Council on the subject. I think it is important that we see the broad picture of what is coming to us and the possibilities of prenatal screening and genetic counselling for future generations. Mrs Jiroflée, you say that there are more extensive tests in university centres. Yeah, that's right, and that's what happens on referral, because they're tertiary centers. If one thinks that something is wrong in the ultrasound or in another study, those pregnant people are referred to a genetic center. That's where the whole genome can be mapped. It's just this isn't about the nomenclature. The nomenclature in question concerns the detection of trisomy 21, no more and no less. When talking about full genetic counselling, there are other nomenclature numbers. That's on referral, on selection. We're only paying back the trace of trisomy 21. If the university centres opt to detect other chromosomal abnormalities at the same time, it is possible, provided that they have the consent of the patient, but no refund is provided for in this nomenclature number. There was indeed a discussion as to whether we would send all pregnant women in our country to such a genetic centre. Then my concern was that some women wouldn't. While we would give everyone the test option, fewer women would do the test. That consideration was important to me. After referral, if there is a risk in the family, and for counseling afterwards, the genetic centers certainly have their added value. The laboratories eligible to carry out the NIPT test must also meet strict quality requirements. These are clearly described in the nomenclature. We therefore have sufficient guarantees in terms of the expertise and quality of the executive laboratories and the tests themselves. If commercial laboratories wish to carry out that test, they must also meet the same conditions. That is therefore a guarantee of the quality of the test. It is good that a debate has been developed. However, I have read the silliest things, as if it would no longer be socially acceptable for a couple to choose to have a child born with trisomy-21. Of course they can make that choice. That's their kid. It's up to them to make that choice. That's not the purpose of the test. First there is the question of whether couples want the test done. If they want to have the test carried out, because they want to know if there is a trisomy 21, then the test is carried out. Then there is the second question, and I have heard many changes of opinion between the first and second questions. If it turns out that the test is positive on trisomy 21............................................................................................ Of course, that's their right. What kind of society would we be if we said that such children should no longer be born? I was once asked in a speech whether children with trisomy 21 would still be born, to which I replied that I believe such children would still be born. I believe that we must also assume that it will be, because it is always a decision of the couple itself to have such a child born or not. I do not think that there should be any misapprehension for that. On the contrary, think about the quality of the care that the children should be surrounded by afterwards. I have not always seen subtle debates on this. I am thinking of the level of debate of two moral philosophers. When one scoundrels, the other of course scoundrels in turn. I've been annoyed by that. How then should parents who were themselves confronted with this feel in a debate that is conducted in such a flat way by two moral philosophers? I thought that was a non-debate. It's sensitive to people. I welcome the result, but the debate is not over yet. It gives us the opportunity to determine what tests we want in our society, how we will deal with them and how they will affect our ideal image of the baby we want to see in our crib. Will it still be accepted that children are born with some kind of condition, including trisomy 21, which is very visible? However, there are also other conditions. Once again, the debate is not over. I am, like all of you, pleased that the NIPT test will be refunded without affecting the decision-making right. Mrs Dedry, one can always talk about the law on patients' rights, or one can apply it. Well, I'm applying it. I supported it back then, and I'm applying it now. That's my contribution to the law on patients' rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u114	I have received an answer to my questions. I agree with you that it is a favorable evolution. I have also often been annoyed by the flat way in which some people talked about an ethically delicate issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u115	Madam Minister, your attitude is very clear and she is reassuring in that regard. Accessibility was the starting point for you, but also a respectful approach to the parents or the patients in question. Several of us were approached by organisations, such as GRIP, which then have to do with patients or parents who had a bad experience. So it remains a focus to work on. You have rightly said that we must enter into consultation with the Communities. One of the issues on which too little training is given or where too little is put forward as an elective is the subject of communication for doctors. In the case of questions from patients who are very sensitive, we do need some communication skills in order to be able to speak on this subject. Pressure is out of the question in all cases. Communication and ethics, electives at some faculties, should now be at the forefront. Given the genetic advances we are experiencing, this is becoming more and more important. It is important that you also mention this in your conversation with the Communities. It also makes sense to speak with the organisations dealing with people with trisomy 21 or down syndrome to see what their concerns are and whether they are justified. With the explanation you gave today, perhaps you can reassure them for a bit. It must be done on the ground. It is good that you have also requested an opinion from the Advisory Committee on Bioethics. I do not know when it will appear, but it has been necessary for a long time to ask questions, including at international level. We are not alone in this; this must also be addressed at UN level. The question needs to be asked as to the framework within which we should act here, with respect for human rights, when it comes to progress in this area. Perhaps this should also be done at UNESCO level. I do not know whether you are dealing with this under your authority, but it would be useful to develop know-how in this field at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u116	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer. I've been in contact with pregnant women for many years. You may be a fine doctor, who indeed acted as you described it, but in practice there are real problems with the communication skills of a number of doctors. This has been greatly improved in the training of the younger doctors, because it is not just in a separate box in the course, but is really practiced in a number of modules, especially in general practitioners. Again, the practice shows that there is still much room for improvement in communication. That tests with an ethical aspect are often included in the majority of normal tests, such as blood tests and urinalysis, and are thrown into them as if they were tests like all others, I have been able to experience with my pregnant daughters. Some LOK groups indeed offer additional formation. Often these are very good and interesting training courses. However, there is no harm in discussing this with the Länder, particularly with Education, because the number of ethical issues facing healthcare providers will only increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-21-54-commissie-ic692x.u117	Questions No 19149 by Mr Jean Jacques Flahaux, No 19252 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, No 1935 and No 19346 by Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau are transformed into written questions. We still have two meetings with oral questions before 20 July. There is therefore no point in introducing 2,000 questions.
