ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u1	We have been able to ask a lot of questions in connection with the budgetary discussion of the policy paper, but there are a lot of questions about which there were not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u2	Mr President, Secretary of State, when the asylum crisis broke out in 2015, you opened up many new collective asylum centres, the existence of which was intended to be temporary. You have used different structures for this, some owned by the State and others not. In the meantime, you have already closed many of these temporary asylum centres. A number of barracks converted into shelters have since been closed as such, but some of them, some of which are not owned by the State, are still open. I do not think it is logical that the reception centres owned by the State should be closed down first, because I think it should be more expensive to keep the other asylum centres open longer. The Council of Ministers already approved a phasing-out plan in June 2016 to close 10 000 reception points by the end of that year. Figures that I was able to obtain from written questions addressed to you show that the number of places was 33 348 by the end of 2015 and 26 321 by May 2017, i.e. some 7 000 places less. One of the temporary centres not owned by the State is that of Scherpenheuvel. My question is specifically about this. I wonder why that still hasn't been closed? What is the future of the shelter in Scherpenheuvel? What are the similarities in this respect? When are you considering shutting down that shelter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Pas, we are fully engaged in the second phasing-out plan. That is at the negotiating stage, so I cannot say anything about it yet. Hopefully that will be decided by the government before the end of this year, otherwise it will be at the beginning of January. I know the problem in Scherpenheuvel. As you know, I live nearby.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u4	You will be aware, Mr Secretary of State, that in the spring of 2010 the police already came to arrest an international criminal with a special unit. I hope that in the second phasing-out plan you will initially close the shelters that are not owned by the State, otherwise it will be a cardigan-pocket operation. That would be less costly for the state. Now it will cost taxpayers more if you keep the other shelters open. I hope there will be clarity as soon as possible. As long as the asylum centre in Scherpenheuvel remains open, the church factory will be very happy on the spot. At the time, they specifically reversed the residence permit of the Sisters of Providence in Diest in order to take it back into their own management, because you were going to turn it into a shelter. However, I would urge, especially for all residents on the ground who are not so happy with the asylum centre, to clarify as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u5	Mrs Pas, you may also ask your question about "the so-called newcomers' declaration" (No. 20100).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u6	Mr President, I would like to turn this question into a written question if I can get the answer today. After all, I note that the agenda is very full. Let me also take advantage of the opportunity to urge the Secretary of State to answer a lot of written questions, otherwise I will have to turn them all into oral questions. This will not reduce the committee's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u7	I think your written questions will all be answered this or at the latest next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 20100's question will therefore be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 20164 will also be converted into a written question. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I have already asked the Minister of Justice about his area of competence. Some time ago, the shipbuilders in Zeebrugge expressed their indignation at the fact that part of the yard was occupied by illegal immigrants there. They complained that no effective action had been taken. According to the newspaper reports at that time, the police did appear to have acted, but they were powerless to deal with the problem. Meanwhile, the law was published in the Belgian Official Journal in June 2016 with a view to criminalising the unauthorised entry into a port facility. How then is it that such things can continue to last? Firstly, we are now a few months later. Can you give figures for the last year of the number of intruders in the port of Zeebrugge that was caught? What happened to them? In short, is there another increase in activity in this area? Secondly, can the cases mentioned in the media at the time be dealt with and any firmer action taken against such practices? Will you take any additional measures if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u10	Ms Pas, DVZ received 1 947 administrative reports from the police until 30 November 2017. That is a very recent figure, in particular the one for 2017 to 30 November. The following decisions for the 1 947 administrative reports were taken by DVZ: 157 detentions, 1 212 orders to leave the territory, 95 repatriations and 151 confirmed orders to leave the territory. 361 were minors; 55 people were made available because they were still in proceedings or because they were in proceedings or legal. 11 files were without a decision, because the persons concerned had been arrested. The shipyard referred to in the newspaper article is not within the perimeter of the port. The port facilities are therefore not illegally accessed. The law to which you refer is therefore not applicable. Several actions are organised on a monthly basis by SPN Zeebrugge, the local police of Bruges, the police forces of the coastal region and other partners in and around the port. These actions also include DVZ. During these actions, DVZ strives for maximum detention of transit migrants. Given the nationality and the limited number of places in the centres, the number for which detention may be carried out is relatively limited. We have a problem with some nationalities. We cannot allow anyone to return to Iran; no European country can do so. But when I read your leaflets, you will obviously solve all these problems. We'll see. First of all, I would like to stress that I am in favour of extending the closed centres in order to be able to pursue an effective return policy. Enlargement was incorporated into the current coalition agreement. The decision of the Council of Ministers of 14 May was followed up. New centers will be added: in Zandvliet 144 places, in Jumet 200 places, in Holsbeek 50 places. Existing centres are expanded internally: in Merksplas 44 places, in 127bis 40 places. Once the master plan is completed, the total number of bonus places in closed centres will be 1 100. There is also a closed centre in the coastal region, in particular the centre for illegal immigrants in Bruges. Given the limited number of places, a detention takes place in the center where there is space at that time. The efforts of the Zeebrugge police, both local police and shipping police, continue as before. In addition, a comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach to the problems of transit migrants in and around the Maximilian Park in Brussels-North is currently being pursued. Those persons are smuggled towards Zeebrugge and towards Calais. Since the start of the actions in Brussels, we have seen a declining trend in Zeebrugge. So one has something to do with the other. There will be a line opening soon in Ostend. So we need to be alert. As regards the phenomenon of transit migration, as long as the gate in the south is not completely closed, refugees will try to reach the UK. In the last three years hundreds of thousands of people have already arrived in Europe who have the UK's aim and continue to try. The problem is one of a European nature. That, of course, is also a Belgian challenge. What do we need? We need more places and more agreements with the countries of origin. I talked to Sudan about that. That did not go unpunished in Parliament. I have not heard you say anything about this, but I have heard many comments from others. The situation in the Maximilian Park is under control. I also gave a latest state of affairs on my blog this morning about Sudan. What exactly is it about? There are 110 Sudanese incarcerated. What's happened to that so far? I think it's important to keep people informed on a permanent basis. You often report figures on the number of illegal transit migrants arrested and the limited number returned. But we're doing what we can. We need more seats. We have it now. I have an agreement on that, but those places weren't built on one, two, three. I have already concluded more agreements with countries of origin than any Secretary of State at three years' time. We are far from the end of our Latin. There are still very nice plans to come, but it is a long-term work. I have already been to Bruges and Zeebrugge to talk to the people who are facing the problem. Of course, the situation causes frustration and I try to explain in a very quiet way how things are going. People understand that. Of course, they are not satisfied with the answer, but they understand it and know that I am working very hard on it. I'll keep doing that, too. Sometimes someone has to get their hands dirty for that, and that's what I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, of course it is your job to do this. The opposite wouldn't be neat. You're talking about 1 212 orders to leave the territory. It is, of course, about what happens in practice with these papers. After all, you cite the Achilles heel of your policy in your answer, namely the capacity of the closed centres to conduct a decent return policy. It is true that an enlargement has been approved. The extra places are not all realized in this legislature. Some of them are being pushed forward to the future. You are talking about 1 100 places, but even Mrs Lanjri from CD&V said at the time that this is far too little, so who am I to contradict her? The capacity has to be much larger. We need far more places than the number decided by the government in order to pursue a decent return policy and to implement effectively the maximum detention that is being sought, as you say. Perhaps you could consider setting up a closed centre in the coastal zone, on the border with France, with a view to the expulsion of the many transmigrants, because this is still a specific problem in the coastal region. I have another question about the new ferry line in Ostend, which will also have to be kept in mind. As long as there are no more places, the inflow is not at all proportional to the outflow. In this respect, you will have to step up your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u12	I started with 400 places, the lowest number in 30 years of migration policy. I have over 600 now, and at the end of 2018 I will have over 700. That is the highest number in 30 years of migration policy. The number will increase. You're saying 1 100 isn't enough. The Netherlands had 1 600 at a certain time. The Netherlands is a larger country, also has a larger migrant community and it has reduced the number of places in the meantime. The system must, of course, be adapted to reality. It is also about people and capacity at the airport, it is also about re-admission agreements with the countries of origin. People who are illegal on the territory can only be locked up for return. If return is not a viable goal, imprisonment is against the law. Then you can't. In this respect, we must ensure that things are legally in order. At some point there has been a closed centre in the coastal region, in Ostend, and I believe that the mayor of Ostend was open to that too, but we already have a centre in Bruges. Zeebrugge is part of Bruges and is also located on the coast. You also mentioned the French border. Most repatriations take place through Zaventem. The distance to Zaventem is also important. In this sense, we have not opted for a closed centre on the border with France. Bringing people back to France is just not how it works. We can get them closer to the airport. We will open a closed centre in Antwerp, because there is the problem of criminal migrants. You are undoubtedly aware of this; I believe that your colleague, Mr Dewinter, will intervene on a monthly basis in the Antwerp City Council. I'm going to Zandvliet next Friday to talk to the residents about a closed center. There are some questions about mobility among others. In short, we are working hard on this, Mrs Pas. As you say, it's necessary, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your additions. I'm sure you're working on that, but you shouldn't exaggerate the numbers either. You have indeed started with a historically low capacity: about 400 places. But I remember your words, when you were still in opposition, when Secretary of State Wathelet had 600 or 700 seats. You blamed him then that this was far too little. At that time, the influx was not like the one we have been facing since 2015. That was for the big sheltersunami. It therefore seems logical to me that the number of places in closed centres should now increase proportionally. If not, the mopping with the tap remains open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u14	Mr. Secretary of State, in Der Spiegel of 22 July there was an interview with the Austrian Gerald Knaus, chairman of the think tank European Stability Initiative. This man would also be the author of the so-called Samsom plan and of the so-called Turkey deal. In the article in Der Spiegel, he suggested that Europe should be inspired by the agreement concluded by the United States and Cuba in the 1990s. Cuba committed itself to taking back illegal migrants who had entered the United States by boat, and the US committed itself every year to giving a certain number of Cubans legal access to its territory. He felt that the European Union should make arrangements with West African countries of origin. In particular, he referred to Nigeria, Senegal, Gambia and Côte d'Ivoire as countries with politically stable regions from which many illegal economic migrants come. Now, apparently, these countries are not or are not very interested, nor are they cooperating to take back the illegal economic migrants. I have a number of questions about this. Mr Secretary of State, first of all, do you confirm that these countries are refusing to take back their nationals who have illegally entered Belgium when our governments request them to do so? How do they motivate that? Secondly, can you clarify this by means of successful and failed returns for those countries? Thirdly, have there been recent discussions at EU level where proposals have been made to make such a refugee deal with West Africa? If so, what is the state of play? Fourthly, what is the government's position on making refugee deals with West African countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u15	Mr. Secretary of State, we saw on Twitter that you recently had an appointment with Gerald Knaus from the think tank ESI. You probably talked about the so-called Rome plan, a plan for the central Mediterranean route. I have a number of questions about this. Has Mr Knaus been able to convince you of the need to deal with asylum applications at the European external borders with the subsequent allocation of refugees who are therefore recognised as refugees to the Member States or not? Has he been able to convince you of his plan for additional readmission agreements with African countries to provide for additional return from the so-called day x+1 and, in reverse, to allow for additional labour migration and student migration? Thus irregular migration is replaced by regular migration. Yesterday I attended an interesting meeting on the issue in Libya and everything related to it. That is a very important issue for the future. Mr Secretary of State, what insights have you gained from that conversation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u16	I am particularly pleased with the interest in the arrangements I make and the people I speak to. Professor Knaus is a very interesting man. The European Stability Initiative is an important think tank on migration. Mr Knaus has achieved a great deal and can also put some weight on the scale, especially in Germany, but also in a number of other European countries. That's why I thought it would be interesting to talk to him. I've organized a conversation. We had a nice lunch at the Moniteur, the new restaurant of the Room. We discussed, among other things, the asylum applications in Africa during that discussion. I'm still not convinced this is the best idea. However, I do believe in UNHCR's resolution programme, but I do not think that opening real European asylum offices in Africa, asylum hubs, is a good idea, because I think that we will be incredibly miserable and would create an immense suction effect in Africa. The question is, of course, always the following. If asylum applicants were to be recognised in those asylum offices, they would have to be flown to Europe. How many do we fly in a year and how do we spread them across Europe? I honestly don't think this is a particularly good idea. Moreover, I do not think there is any country waiting to organise such a thing. There has been more concrete talk of Tunisia and Egypt. If we were to organise this in Tunis, hundreds of thousands of people would come to apply for asylum at a European asylum office. Some people are recognized and flown in. All the others have made a long journey from somewhere in Africa to Tunis, but they are there because they are not recognized. I believe that this also has an effect on smugglers, who make money trying to get people into Europe, albeit illegally. I am therefore not convinced of the arguments put forward by Mr Knaus. I did submit a number of other slopes to him. For example, I suggested that he make an EU-Tunisia deal, and a few other things, which we discussed in depth. I've listened very carefully. He had some good ideas about circular migration, for example, in which I believe in a piece, but also in which many questions arise. I am, by the way, the first in Belgian history to launch a circular migration project with Tunisia. I signed it last week, through the IOM. There will be 150 foreign trainees from Tunisia internships in Belgian companies and vice versa. These are Belgian companies which have a branch in Tunisia or vice versa. Such a circular migration project is an absolute first. It's never happened before. It was in the coalition agreement. I set it in motion. I believe in that too, but I certainly do not believe in European asylum offices in Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u17	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In recent years, of course, we have focused heavily on the influx through the Middle East, especially from Syria, Iraq and Iran. We have paid less attention to what came from Africa, both East Africa and West Africa. The problem is very complex because, of course, the problem in West Africa is quite different from that in East Africa. We've been working with classic recipes for years. Classic recipes do not always provide the right solution to new problems. We will have to be quite innovative in this. We need to find out where there are new flows, how smugglers are innovative and how we can combat them. There are lots of balloons, from different angles, both by NGOs and think tanks as well as by governments. However, they should not be measures. They must not be used to show that something is being done, and then two years later, to find that they have not paid anything. Any action in this area must be results-oriented and not effort-oriented, which is why I am concerned. Especially when a new measure is proposed, we need to look not only at the potential positive effects, but also at the possible negative effects. For example, a new measure must not lead to a new suction effect or a head start for smugglers, who would then be richer again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u18	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Of course people ask for questions when they put something on Twitter. As you can see, we are very attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u20	If they don't want to talk about it, don't put it on Twitter. My big problem is that yesterday I heard what is happening in Libya. Europe is pumping money into smugglers by making agreements with them. Europe is pumping money into the Libyan border guard, which is as corrupt as the smugglers. People from East Africa live in overcrowded detention centers. I partly understand your reasoning that you do not want to establish a European asylum office there, but we will have to do something: people will continue to come. There needs to be a much more fundamental debate in Europe on Africa's development. As far as the circular migration project with Tunisia is concerned, I know Tunisia a little bit. You know it or not, but when I was a minister, we started a project there on social dialogue with employers' and employees' organisations. We supported that and these people subsequently won the Nobel Prize. We should indeed support Tunisia, but I do not think Tunisia is a asking party to conclude agreements on migration. On the contrary, they now have legislation on migration that does not work and wants to maintain it for as long as possible, because they will not be involved throughout the discussion. Mr Secretary of State, I hope that within the European structures you really want to start the fundamental discussion about what we will do with Africa. I fear that the situation in Libya is highly explosive and that we will simply face those refugees, even in the medium term, whether we want it or not, whether we have borders or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, I wish to return to the European plan for the relocation of refugees, in particular the commitment of Belgium. We will remember the tragic events in the Mediterranean that had marked the minds, as the shipwreck of a trawler who had killed more than 700 people off Libya. How can we also forget, a few months later, the image of little Aylan, this young Syrian child found dead on a Turkish beach? According to Myria's report "2017. Migration in figures and rights", the European relocation decisions of September 2015 were taken at the height of the migration crisis: 160 000 asylum seekers were to be relocated by 2017, which was then reduced to 100 000. The relocation system was slow to start. The pace accelerated at the end of 2016, but by the end of February 2017, Member States had proposed only 25,721 relocation places and only 13,546 relocations had actually taken place (3,936 from Italy and 9,610 from Greece). Belgium was expected to relocate 3,812 people by September 2017. It made 30 places available in 2015 and 500 in the course of 2016 (100 in April, 100 in May and 300 in September). Six asylum seekers were relocated to Belgium from Italy in 2015. In 2016, there were about 200 (177 from Greece and 23 from Italy). They were mainly Syrian nationals (75 per cent). By the end of February 2017, Belgium had made available a total of 730 places out of 3,812, i.e. 19% of the Belgian quota (530 for Greece and 200 for Italy). Slightly more than six months before the end of the relocation period, 396 persons were actually insured, or 10% of the Belgian quota. Mr Secretary of State, the record seems to be weak. It is therefore questionable whether Belgium has fulfilled its commitment to the European plan for the relocation of refugees. My questions are pretty simple. Do you confirm the figures in Myria's report? Could you shed some light on the situation in Belgium to date, given that on 26 September last the relocation plan was coming to an end? I would like to hear your explanation of the delays in Belgium. Finally, last September, the Commission announced that it was initiating infringement proceedings against countries that did not comply with their obligations under relocation decisions. Do you have any idea of the nature of the possible sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, in September 2015, the European Union decided to set up a quota mechanism to better distribute migrants among Member States; my distinguished colleague, Emir Kir, has just mentioned this. The Union had given itself on Tuesday 26 September 2017 as the deadline for implementing this relocation policy. The European Union had planned a two-year programme to relocate thousands of migrants to Italy and Greece. It appears that the Member States have only achieved 28.7% of the initial target, i.e. 46,000 people relocated, but my question dates back to early October. The countries in question are those of the Visegrád group. Hungary and Slovakia even appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union to escape this obligation, but their application was rejected in early September 2017. Mr Secretary of State, what about these refugee quotas today? The date of September 26, 2017 is well overtaken. What was Belgium's objective with regard to these quotas? What is your position on Jean-Claude Juncker's statement that solidarity between Member States is not an à la carte dish? I would add that Denmark, which is a rich country, has just decided not to accept these quotas adopted by the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission had initially set the number of people to relocate from Italy and Greece at 160 000. It turns out that the number of persons whose nationality corresponds to an average protection percentage of more than 75 per cent and who are therefore considered for relocation is actually much lower, i.e. about 42,000. And that's the node of the whole discussion. The number of persons to be distributed has been set at 160,000, with a breakdown key per State. For Belgium, this key is 3%, i.e. 3,812 people. However, there has not been an influx of 160 000 people into Italy and Greece, thanks to the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. Therefore, this discussion is based on fiction. Mr Kir and Mr Flahaux, one may wonder why the European Commission has not adjusted the number of departures. Do you know why? The question is relevant. You are always asking me about this, but this is especially the case with Mr. De Vriendt, who accuses me every week of not having set up 3,800 places for refugees, even though it was my duty. I reply to him every time that only 42 000 people - not 160 000 - have entered Europe and are candidates for relocation. Do you know why the Commission has not changed the total number of candidates for relocation? Because other European states were very enthusiastic and reached the total they had set themselves in the first few months. For this reason, these countries, which are a little too enthusiastic, have not adapted their figures. They'd already shot too high.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u24	Was it Germany?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u25	No, not Germany, absolutely not. These are other small countries. These countries said stop, otherwise public opinion would have spoken of an exaggerated enthusiasm - for example accepting 200, when it could only be 50. All NGOs say that the target is not achieved, that only 13% or 20% of the target is achieved. Why? We can't do more because there are no candidates. I can't give a plane ticket to a ghost! There are no more candidates. It is the same for all countries, France and Germany. It's like this everywhere. Talk to colleagues about your political obedience in other European governments. They also say they haven't reached their numbers. No government has reached its figures, except for the two or three governments that were too enthusiastic at first. And that's why they didn't fit their numbers. Ask Mr Avramopoulos! Belgium does not receive a bad relocation report. The last report was positive. I speak a lot with my Italian and Greek colleagues, Messrs. Minniti and Mouzalas. If we can do more, I'll do it. In practice, we are in solidarity with Greece, but there are no more relocation files. Why? Because people arriving in Greece do not have a recognition rate of more than 75%. For the moment, it is only Syrians and Eritreans. It's only these two nationalities. A Nigerian is not a candidate for relocation, because Nigeria's recognition rate is only 20%. Nigerian nationality is the most represented among those currently arriving in Europe. They're not real refugees. I'm sorry, in 80 per cent of cases, they're not refugees, they're economic migrants. They are not candidates for relocation. That is the substance of the debate. Belgium is doing everything. You can interview my Italian and Greek colleagues. They are pleased with our solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, thank you, but some of my questions remain unanswered. I'm trying to understand your reasoning. You explain to us that the 160,000 departures were reviewed to 42,000 candidates for relocation. You're telling us that in reality, the candidates don't come here. We know, however, that the situation in Syria, in particular, is dramatic and that there are therefore candidates. Then you explain to us that some countries, which you have described as enthusiastic, have met the quota set by the European Commission. I don't understand why you're talking about enthusiasm. In fact, these countries have fulfilled their obligations under the European relocation plan. The question that we have to ask in this committee is this: how is it that there are no ghost candidates for them, that they receive refugee candidates and not the other countries? What do you think explains why these countries were able to fulfil their obligations under the European relocation plan? Why has Belgium not done so? Finally, I keep my second question. I recalled that the Commission has announced that it will initiate infringement proceedings against countries that do not comply with their obligations. I don't know if you gave an answer earlier, explaining that you have contacts and that things are going well. Does that mean that there is no infringement procedure against our country? Yes or no? Finally, I would like to hear from you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u27	The debate we have here seems to me to be quite interesting. I must confess, Mr. Secretary of State, that you have given me elements that I did not have. It is true that the image for the general public is that of a number of countries that fall short of their obligations. You explained well that it was actually as in the song "La Bonne du curé": "I would like to, but I can't!", Because there aren't enough candidates. In the press and in public opinion, this is not known. I think it is therefore interesting to have learned this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u28	I'll give the explanation again because I think it's very important. It is true that there is a lot of discussion about perception but not reality. We had the debate on relocation. We are not talking about UNHCR's Resettlement Programme, that is, people who are in Lebanon and Turkey. We are not talking about this because they are people who come with humanitarian visas when they fly. Our ambition has never been higher than this UNHCR Resettlement Program of neighbouring countries of conflict (Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey). We're talking relocation. Relocation concerns people who have already arrived in Europe, particularly in Greece and Italy. A European rule was established, for which I personally voted; I was present at the JHA Council. The Visegrád countries did not vote. This is the whole debate about Mr Orbán, in particular the fact that some countries do not want Muslims, migrants, etc. We voted for relocation. It is a system whereby asylum seekers are distributed to other European countries; indeed, it is unimaginable to believe that Italy and Greece will welcome everyone. That's impossible! When there is really a crisis situation and a very high rate of asylum seekers arriving by boat in the Schengen area, in Italy or in Greece, we must stand in solidarity with these two countries. We voted for a distribution key based on three or four conditions. One concerns the number of inhabitants of the country, the GDP. For Belgium, this, I believe, represents a key of 2.8%. I'm not sure of that figure. How many people was he talking about? We didn't know that. It dates back to September-October 2015. At the time, there was a crisis with the arrival of thousands of people every day. Some countries felt that there was a need for a figure, that there was a need to be able to communicate a figure to citizens, otherwise it would be tantamount to signing a blank cheque, which could not be done. Mr. Kir, we set a figure. According to this figure, 160,000 asylum-seekers were virtually candidates. It should be noted that relocation takes two years. In other words, the project covers two years. Subsequently, it was found that the figure of 160,000 asylum-seekers had never been reached. In this case, Belgium had to take care of 3,800 asylum seekers. But this has never been the case, given the crash in the number of asylum seekers arriving in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u30	That's the truth! In any case, 42,000 have arrived. In view of this number, Belgium has fulfilled its commitments. Why has the Commission not made an adaptation? Indeed, the rule of three was strict here. Instead of 160,000, it should have been 42,000. Normally, therefore, 3,800 asylum-seekers were not involved, but more or less 1,000 asylum-seekers. But the adjustment was not made because it was politically very delicate, since a few small countries had filled their quota on the basis of 160,000, a few weeks after the key votes. These small countries wanted to be the right students in the class and subsequently refused to allow the Commission to adjust the figures so that their citizens would not blame them for being too zealous. That's where the discussion was born. Belgium also intervened at the Court of Justice of the European Union to defend its point of view: for solidarity and against the position of MM. Orbán et al. We've won and the infringement proceedings are starting now. The European Commission must draw up a fine. It can take months. Sanctions are not yet defined. The Court of Justice of the European Union has been very clear: we are right and these countries are not right. We continue to offer places. When Italy has candidates, especially the MENA, who are more vulnerable, we can help it. We stand in solidarity with the countries bordering the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, you have reexplained what I knew, but it is always interesting to hear you on the merits. You mentioned the figure of 42,000 several times, so I guess it was validated. But where? The European Commission does not wish to put this figure forward so as not to put in difficulty some Member States which have already reached their quota from the 160 000. How is it that some Member States have managed to reach their quota from 160 000 and others have not? I heard you explained that we're starting from a potential of 42,000 people, not 160,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u32	These are countries that almost did not receive asylum applications in 2015. This is, for example, the case of Estonia. We had 50,000 that same year. The reception places were saturated. I couldn't take 3,000 more people. That is why the Commission has given us two years to carry out this task. We accepted its terms, but we would act when the crisis ended. The first few weeks were impossible. Mr. Kir, you asked me, "Why do people have to sleep there? Why are there no seats? What measures does Fedasil take to install beds?" In the immediate future, it was impossible. I promised to do it, but in two years. I repeat that these countries did not regularly receive asylum seekers. Seats were therefore available there. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, your explanation seems clear to me. I therefore understand why some countries had filled their quotas from the number of 160 000. As far as the infringement proceedings against those who do not comply with the plan are concerned, I imagine that we will come back to them in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, your answer seems to me quite satisfactory. However, I would argue in favour of a better explanation to the press and public opinion who believe that Belgium is in default. But you made it clear that this was not the true nature of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u35	Mrs Gabriels is not yet here. We'll see if she arrives later. My question No. 21104 was discussed during the discussion of the general policy paper last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u36	Mr Franken, during the budgetary discussions, we have already discussed legal migration. You have made two proposals; we will certainly come back to that in the coming weeks. Here, I am interested in an article published several weeks ago on the RTBF website, according to which the European Commission asks the Court of Justice of the European Union to impose a daily penalty payment of €70,828.80 on Belgium until the directive facilitating legal migration procedures, known as a'single permit', is fully transposed. The amount of the penalty applied for takes into account the seriousness, duration of the infringement, and wishes to have a 'dissuasive effect'. Among the objectives of this directive is to facilitate legal migration by introducing simplified procedures for workers from outside the European Union to obtain a residence and work permit. A common basis of rights in terms of working conditions, pensions, social security and access to public services has been set up to ensure that these foreign workers have the same rights, comparable to the rights of European citizens throughout the European Union. My questions are pretty simple, Mr. Franken. Could you give us some insight into the state of play and the timing of work on Belgium's transposition of this directive? Have the federal and regional governments ever met to resolve this issue? If so, on what date? Have different views emerged on this issue? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u37	Mr President, Mr Kir, Directive 2011/98/EU requires Member States to:- establish a single application procedure for admission to residence and work for third-country nationals wishing to work in their territory, leading to the issue of a single document attesting to the granting of the authorisations required for residence and work; - that the residence permit in accordance with the European Regulation, issued by Member States to third-country nationals who are staying in their territory for purposes other than work, includes a reference to access to the labour market; - a series of common rights for non-EU workers concerned by the Directive. These three aspects of the Directive fall under the respective responsibilities: federal and federated authorities. Only the first two points fall within my competence. Therefore, for further details, I would like to refer you to the other ministers responsible for the last aspect. After the sixth reform of the State, the Federal State remained competent to regulate the occupation of foreign workers who are admitted or allowed to stay in the territory for purposes other than work. The Federal State also remains competent, under its residual jurisdiction, to regulate access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens. It is the states that are competent, but the right of residence remains the responsibility of the federal level. It's a little complicated, but that's how it is. The consequence of this reform was that the transposition of the Directive had to be carried out jointly with the various federal and federated authorities responsible for granting a single permit. We're almost there. The competent authorities reached a consensus, with your party, at Brussels level on the procedure which was agreed in the Conciliation Committee on 25 November 2017. At this Committee, the Federal State, the Regions and the German-speaking Community undertook to make the legislative and regulatory amendments necessary for the transposition of the Directive. The texts of the various competent authorities which give effect to this procedure, together with the validation of the political agreement on the procedure, were submitted to the Council of State which will give its opinion on 27 December 2017. It will then be up to the various Belgian parliaments, in particular the Federal Parliament, to legislate this cooperation agreement. I hope that we will avoid a European fine. The amount at stake is important; I don't want to pay that. We work with the federated entities. I hope that we will achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, which is in the right direction. We see that the work has been done at the federal and federated levels, that the opinion of the Council of State has been requested and that we are approaching ratification by the various parliaments. This is the kind of case on which Belgium is expected. I think it is important to show that our federal model is working, and that we are able to get the federal government to work with the federated entities. I look forward to a forthcoming outcome in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, I read in the press that you have agreed to cooperate more closely with Germany, in order to better control refugees returning to the country they have fled, by signing a declaration of intention. I would therefore like to ask you two questions. What commitments have you made to Germany in this matter? Has a legal instrument more advanced than this declaration of intent provided the framework for this matter? How are your commitments monitored and evaluated? Have any decisions been taken in Belgium or Germany following the implementation of this declaration of intent? Since Tuesday, 2 May, Belgium's provinces, cities and municipalities have also been asked to follow up on these cases. Can you explain to us how, what is expected of them and on what legal or regulatory basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u40	Mr Kir, the Foreign Office and the Federal Airport Police have observed in recent years that a significant number of refugees who have obtained the same status in Belgium, apply for a passport from the embassy of their country of origin and then go there. Previous governments have not undertaken anything in relation to this issue. That is why I asked the Foreign Office and the Federal Airport Police in 2016 to develop a procedure to detect and combat this type of fraud more quickly. Since they are persons enjoying international protection status, they are not allowed to travel to their country of origin. This is clearly established as fraud by Article 3 of the Geneva Convention itself. Considering also that these people often use the airports of our neighbouring countries to avoid Belgian controls, I signed agreements with both the Netherlands on 9 December 2016 and Germany on 31 May 2017 to effectively tackle this issue and to exchange information in a structured manner. The Declaration of Intent signed with Germany refers to an exchange of information on persons enjoying international protection status and returning to their country of origin with a view to a possible request for withdrawal of that status. This withdrawal is based on Articles 14 and 19 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 and Article 55 of the Law of 15 December 1980. In order to ensure the optimal follow-up of requests for withdrawal or repeal of international protection, an International Protection Monitoring Unit has been set up within the Office of Foreigners. This unit is responsible for centralizing and harmonizing all applications and forwarding them to the Office of the Commissioner General (OCG). Where appropriate, the Commission shall also take the decision to terminate the stay and shall ensure the follow-up of any removal. Between 2016 and August 2017, including 122 cases in which Belgium had granted international protection status, were examined. In 46 cases, this review led to the withdrawal of protection status and 55 cases are still pending. In 30 of the 122 cases, the information came from Germany. That's a lot. A meeting is planned for the end of this year between the Foreign Office and the Federal Police, on the one hand, and the German Ministry of the Interior, on the other. Finally, on 2 May, I ordered my administration to invite all local authorities through the Gemcom platform to pay attention to this type of fraud, considering that as of 1 January 2018, the application for a refugee passport will no longer be made to the provincial administrations but via the municipal administrations. This issue deserves special attention at all levels. As mayor, Mr. Kir, I'm sure it's also important to your municipality. This will begin on 1 January. The municipalities will have to note applications for refugee passports. It'll be important. We raised awareness via the Gemcom platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u41	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament 21018 by Mrs Gabriels was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 21265 by Mrs Monica De Coninck is hereby withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 21315 and 21615 have already been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u43	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, among the people who were checked in September and afterwards in the Maximilian Park, there were a large number of unaccompanied minors. As you know, this is a very vulnerable group. Just like those of the adults who have been found, there are a lot of them who do not want to apply for asylum and are not even interested in a specific protection status. There are several reasons for this. The main reason is that many of them want to travel to the UK because they have family there. We note, however, that some of them do not know that they are legally eligible for family reunification with their family members across the Channel. This must be made clear to them through information campaigns. At the beginning of September I found in a number of conversations that they did not know this. Some want to be united with family, but it's often about distant family, an uncle or an aunt. However, this cannot be done without reason. Because it is about a vulnerable group, we should consider whether there is any possibility of allowing these young people to travel to the United Kingdom in a legal and safe way. In the past, France and the United Kingdom concluded an agreement to clean up the camp in Calais. This allowed several hundred unaccompanied minors to travel to the United Kingdom to be reunited with family members, even though it turned out to be about distant family. For this purpose, there was a deviation from the Dublin rules. One does not have to do this, but it may be when it is considered necessary. In addition, in our country there is also a smaller group of unaccompanied minors who are interested in a protection status or want to apply for asylum, but who have already had a fingerprint taken in another EU Member State, mostly Italy. We could provide for a derogation for this target group, and we could have these young people applying for protection status or asylum. I have just heard you say, in response to a question from Mr Kir, that you want to show solidarity with the countries at the external borders, especially when it comes to vulnerable groups such as unaccompanied minors. That's something our country can do. You are not obliged to do so, but you can see on a case-by-case basis whether it is useful to provide for a derogation from Dublin rules in some cases and to deal with a request from a young person, for example, who has fingerprints in Italy. We all know that a lot of refugees are flooded there. They're staying there in refugee camps. One can't handle it. I've been on the scene. The situation there is poignant. I have the following questions. How many unaccompanied minors were found in September, October and possibly November? How many of them asked for asylum and how much was the protection status? Are specific information campaigns being conducted? Will there also be an explanation of the existing possibility of family reunification? What do these information campaigns look like? If that does not happen, what is the reason for that? Is it possible to get in touch with the United Kingdom, in the example of France and the United Kingdom, to offer a limited group the opportunity to travel to the United Kingdom, to be reunited there with a distant relative? To this end, the United Kingdom must agree to a derogation from the Dublin rules, as was the case in Calais. Are you prepared to allow a derogation for unaccompanied minors who wish to apply for asylum or protection status in Belgium, but who cannot do so through a fingerprint? Is that happening today? I suppose so, because you have just said that you want to show solidarity with the countries at the external borders. If that happens, how often does it happen? How does it happen in practice? Without calling for a general derogation from all the rules, I believe that it should be possible to consider on a case-by-case basis whether it is necessary and useful to derogate from certain rules in the case of vulnerable unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u44	Mr President, Ms Lanjri, a total of 71 unaccompanied minors were found in September and October 2017. In total, from June to October 2017, 78 unaccompanied minors were foreigners. I give you an overview of the number of unaccompanied minors found in the Maximilian Park: 45 minors from Eritrea, 21 from Sudan, 5 from Syria, 2 from South Sudan, 1 from Ethiopia, 1 from Chad, 1 from Libya, 1 from Senegal and 1 from Algeria. No link can be established between the finding in the Maximilian Park and the question of asylum or subsidiary protection. It is therefore not possible to provide the requested figures. Twice a week, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Fedasil continue to raise awareness and inform the transit migrants in and around the Maximilian Park and in and around the North Station. The purpose of the information campaign is to make them aware of the possibility of applying for asylum in Belgium and of the procedure to be followed, of the possibility of voluntarily returning with the help of the competent services and of the risk of forced return if they do not wish to return voluntarily. They shall also be informed of the possibility of applying for international protection when they are held in a closed centre. Priority should be given to vulnerable persons, such as unaccompanied minors. All possibilities are explained to them. Together with the Minister of Justice, I have had all the necessary measures taken to systematically deal with unaccompanied minors. Research is currently under way to combat networks and any facts of human trafficking or trafficking in human beings. A great deal of effort is being made by the cooperation of the various services. They will continue for as long as necessary. Mrs Lanjri, as you know, the Voogdij service also has a very important role to play in this. For the NMBV with an ongoing procedure, looking at a family reunification could be a possible path in the search for a sustainable solution. Legal possibilities are provided for this. Where a person applies for asylum, the readmission may be requested by Dublin procedure to a Member State with a family member who is legally resident or with a family member who can take care of him. That's right. You can, and sometimes you do. I don't have any figures on that, but it could happen. A temporary deviation is not necessary. Unaccompanied minors are not sent back to Italy because they have been fingerprinted there. Since the Dublin III Regulation, there has been a major difference between the treatment of unaccompanied minors and an adult with a Dublin hit. NMVB debt securities shall not be returned to Italy through the Dublin procedure. That's not right. For an unaccompanied minor, a Dublin transfer may be made only if the father, mother, brother, sister or other family member, such as uncle, aunt or grandparent, is legally resident in another EU country and if the transfer to the family is in the best interests of the child according to the two Member States concerned. If there are no family members, the country in which the young person applied for asylum shall be the country responsible. For an unaccompanied minor, the responsible country is the country where legally resident family members are or Belgium. So that's already under review. We do not work according to the principle that, if there is a Dublin hit, we send the person back to Italy immediately. No, we're going to check if there's a family that's legally resident. That's not about a brother or sister staying illegally in Italy. A structural, sustainable solution is sought together with the Voogdij service, with the guardian, and then we try to find a solution. In Dublin III, this is already the case. One cannot compare an unaccompanied minor with an adult when it comes to Dublin. That procedure is different. There is no need for an anomaly. I think the current application is as it should be. Dublin is only mentioned if the father, mother, brother, sister or family member, including uncles, aunts or grandparents, reside legally in another EU country and if the transfer to the family is in the best interests of the child. Therefore, the importance of the child is always considered. This must be in the best interests of the child, according to the two Member States concerned, both for the Voogdij service and for the authorities in the country of origin. If there is no family, the country where the younger person applied for asylum is responsible. One always seeks the most humane solution for the unaccompanied minor, together with the people of Justice or the Voogdij department.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, this clarifies a lot. Not only me but also people from NGOs who are active in the field assumed that, if there is a hit in Italy, they will be returned. That is why I asked for this derogation, but it is not, unless family is legally resident in the country. I understand. I urge you to ask DVZ to clarify the information they provide every two weeks. The adults will be sent back when there's a hit. The young people hear this and think that this also applies to them, but they dare not ask. They'd like to ask for asylum, but they're registered in Italy. They do not know that the rule is different for the unaccompanied minor. That's the rule. Explain that to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u46	That's what we do. Our people on the ground explain that. However, there are several unaccompanied minors who do not listen at all. The smugglers tell them not to believe anyone except the smugglers. Often they are very young, impressionable, naive young people, sometimes hardened by the journey. They're totally confused and they just want to see their families in the UK. They don't take what our people say. That's frustrating for our people, too, sometimes. It is therefore explained to them that the Dublin scheme does not apply to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u47	Is there not a need for a temporary derogation for family reunification in the United Kingdom, as has happened in the case of Calais? Perhaps it is possible to set up something similar between Belgium and the United Kingdom, following the example of what happened in Calais. Why isn't that necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u48	The point is that the younger can prove that he or she has family in the UK. The young person in Italy applies for asylum under the Dublin scheme and says that he has family in the United Kingdom. The best possible solution for family reunification will then be explored. If the best possible solution is for the young person to go to the United Kingdom, it will be applied. This is then covered by the Ministry of Voogdij, under a guardian. Of course, the United Kingdom must also agree. That makes sense. That's how it always works. France was also only able to reach an agreement with the United Kingdom when the United Kingdom agreed. The current application already allows this, and that is of course what we are pursuing. Clearly, an unaccompanied minor, whom we know his parents are staying in London, is not supposed to stay here. Of course, it's the best thing for him to unite with his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u49	That's what I'm talking about. I would argue that we should make it clear to those young people that they do not have to pay people smugglers to arrange the crossing because they can simply go through legal channels to their parents or family, as provided for in the legislation. However, young people do not take that advice. Do I understand correctly when I think that the agreement between France and the United Kingdom also concerned people who were legally resident in the United Kingdom and were not wider, so it did not apply to other young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u50	Mrs Lanjri, the questions take an awfully long time. It's the last questions this year. I hope we can get it all done, because I have to go to Ghent right away. I do not know the technical regulation correctly in the UK or in France. Excuse me, but I'm not a Secretary of State in France or the UK. I don't know the technical details of that, so don't take my word for it. I cannot answer that, but that is certainly something for the study department, yours or mine, to find out more. In any case, my administration says what I have just said and that it is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, it is for this reason that I asked the question so that it could be checked. I have already been clarified on one point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u52	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 21556, 21563, 21565, 21566, 21567, 21606, 21607, 21608, 21609 and 21610 of Mrs Monica De Coninck are hereby repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u53	Mr President, Secretary of State, on 8 October last, the European Commission announced additional humanitarian aid of EUR 4 million for Serbia in the context of the reception of refugees and asylum seekers from the European Union's Regional Trust Fund. Serbia registered more than 4,000 refugees and asylum-seekers, close to the number in 2016 during the same period. Mr Secretary of State, Belgium has welcomed more asylum seekers. What resources are allocated by the European Union in the context of relocation? What logistical means are in place to inform migrants and refugees of their rights and duties on Belgian territory? Does the European Union contribute to a refugee-specific information programme? What are the resources allocated to the recruitment of translators in this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u54	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, since the beginning of the asylum crisis in the second half of 2015, the European Union and its Member States have offered assistance of more than €80 million to help this country manage migration flows, in addition to the funds Serbia can use as a candidate to become a Member State. Here we are talking about no less than EUR 1.5 billion for a period from 2014 to 2020. Important resources are allocated by the European Union to carry out relocation and resettlement projects. In 2016, €2.2 million was spent on these projects. Only part of the planned budget was used, mainly due to the small number of persons relocated compared to the initial planned number. The European Union is contributing to various projects in Belgium, including resettlement, relocation and return. The support provided by the various services involved (Fedasil and partners) of course includes information on the rights and duties of the target audience. In the conduct of these various projects, the services of interpreters are used. For resettlement and relocation projects, for example, €6,000 was spent in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u55	Mr Van der Maelen's question was addressed to Minister Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u56	Mr President, for the record, I have not withdrawn all these other questions because I am being paid for them. The administration simply asked which questions were actually answered during the discussion of the policy letter. That's why such a selection has been made. Mr Secretary of State, I come to my questions about the deported Sudanese. To a previous question from colleague Van der Maelen about the succession of the evicted Sudanese via the embassies, Minister Reynders replied that you always have the opportunity to ask for cooperation with our embassy in Cairo. Minister Reynders said you only had to ask. When you were questioned about this in the Committee on the Interior, you said that there has been contact in the meantime. We felt it necessary for this follow-up to start immediately, even on arrival at Khartoum Airport, in view of the disturbing reports in previous reports following expulsions from other European countries. Hence the following specific questions. Did you or did DVZ already provide the embassy with names and coordinates of the Sudanese people to be followed? If so, of all or only of some deportees? Has the follow-up already started? Do you have any news on these Sudanese people? What happened to the evicted Sudanese as soon as they arrived at Khartoum Airport? Reports after deportation to Sudan by other European countries reported abuse immediately after arrival at the airport. Is it not possible that this also happened for the Sudanese evicted from Belgium? Did you find out if the embassy has a network in Sudan, including Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile to ensure such succession? How is the follow-up going in concrete terms? Has DVZ in the past organised similar successions in other countries in other expulsions? If so, for which countries? How did this work out in concrete terms? How many persons were eventually deported to Sudan through identification by the identification mission? If I understand correctly, it's also on the blog. How many of them were from Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile? What was and is the policy on deportations to these Sudanese regions? Was additional caution shown on expulsions to these regions? How many people were not eventually deported to these regions because their safety could not be guaranteed? As far as the return to Afghanistan is concerned, please refer to the regional differences. To what extent does this also apply to Sudan? What is the status of judicial proceedings? How many people can still be deported depending on their outcome? How many of them are involved in a Dublin case? How many of them are directly possible deportations to Sudan? I asked you a number of times whether it was sufficient for the expulsions to Sudan to establish the Sudanese nationality or whether the entire identity of the person should have been established. I would like a clear and complete answer. Where does full identification, if any, take place in Belgium or Sudan? You referred last time to the statements made by the Prime Minister and Minister Jambon, but we only found, without mistake, that for some countries nationality control is sufficient, while for others full identification must be carried out. What's the deal specifically for Sudan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u57	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, you ask me a lot of questions at once. I'll try to answer that. In general, ad hoc monitoring is organised at the request of the person concerned, his lawyers, an NGO or on the initiative of DVZ. In the case of Sudan, DVZ has decided to activate the ERIN programme, European Reintegration Network, which includes reintegration support and monitoring after forced return. ERIN is a joint initiative of several European countries funded by the European Commission to enable reintegration aid in the countries of origin. DVZ has been ERIN partner for a long time and provides reintegration support and monitoring opportunities after forced return to Pakistan and Afghanistan. DVZ activated the ERIN module for Sudan in October 2017, so that persons who have returned are entitled to reintegration support and on-site monitoring. This support offers opportunities such as airport pick-up, travel guidance, training, accommodation, facilities, social assistance, etc. and is provided in Sudan by the International Organisation for Migration (IOM). Sudanese eligible for the ERIN programme shall be informed in advance in the closed centre and shall receive a personal letter to present themselves to the IOM Sudan, near the airport. To date, there are no indications of possible abuses after arrival in Khartoum. DVZ continues to closely monitor the situation, Mrs De Coninck. Let me give you some figures. 10 Sudanese people were repatriated to Sudan until 4 December. They were identified by the identification mission and received a travel document. Five of them left voluntarily, 1 via the IOM and there were 4 DEPUs. DEPU stands for persons who have returned without police supervision. Then there's a police escort, so DEPAS. Secondly, all removals to Sudan had Khartoum as their destination, so it was not removed to other regions. DVZ doesn't have any data from where exactly the data subjects come from. In total there are 17 files in which a legal procedure still needs to be completed before a disposal can be provided for. So there are 17 files in which there is still a legal issue. 54 people considered to be Sudanese are in the closed centres today. They are all eligible for expulsion. 15 of them were removed to Sudan, 39 were removed from Dublin. These figures can change all the time. The identification shall be carried out in Sudan on the basis of all information obtained in Belgium, either via the embassy or via a delegation. For the laissez-passers delivered by the identification delegation, outside the information contained in the interview, the internal population register was also used, in which a large proportion of the population is registered. The identification missions shall seek to identify the persons as accurately as possible and not only to identify the nationality. The laissez-passers were delivered in the name of the Sudanese people concerned. In order to identify the region from which the persons concerned originate, each individual dossier should be examined. Not everyone, however, has explained where he comes from. If so, it is also not clear whether this information could be confirmed. This information cannot therefore continue to disseminate statistics. In some laissez-passers there is a village at address, in others not. We therefore have no systematic data on regional origin. That also depends on their cooperation. Of course, if they refuse to say that, it is not obvious. That is the state of play. At the moment, the procedure is fairly good. In connection with Vottem, a judge said we shouldn't send anyone to Sudan and we shouldn't do Dublin removals, even from Sudanese. These people are still trapped in Vottem. I expect a ruling on this in the next few weeks, perhaps on 22 or 23 December. After all, we appealed to the Court of Appeal in Liège. We'll see how that goes. For the rest, we have already gained a lot of legal procedures, procedures relating to Article 3. We're doing what we said and we're winning most of the cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u58	I would urge you, if you do that identification, to make additional efforts to find out which regions they come from. That is a policy that is applied to Afghanistan too. I think this is relevant. Secondly, I did not quite understand your answer. The identification here is about whether they are Sudanese but the full identification then happens in Sudan. Is that correct or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u59	The identification is done by the embassy and now by the identification mission. We also do everything we can to know which region they come from, but sometimes they just don't cooperate. That's a big difference. We do that, we are absolutely trying to find out from which region and even from which village they come. It's not obvious if they don't cooperate. One can't force anyone to say where he's from. That's the whole problem with removals, but you know it yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u60	Just so we're clear, the embassy here is doing full identification? [[Assent]] I would like to stress that the embassy must also be asked to see which region one comes from, if the full identification is done. This must therefore be taken into account when possible expulsions and decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u61	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Van Hoof's two-thirds and two-thirds are deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, prior to repatriation, people in illegal residence can be put into detention for a short time. Some conditions are attached to this. For example, no other less restrictive measures should be applied and effective expulsion should be envisaged in the short term. In principle one cannot be held for more than two months, but this is renewable several times. Firstly, since there is not yet a KB that regulates the so-called preventive measures or alternatives to detention, what are the criteria used specifically to put people in detention? Isn't detention the last means used? This seems to contradict reality: some people without legal residence are placed in detention without alternatives being applied first. Secondly, can you formally confirm that minors have not so far been placed in detention? We have received signals from the opposite. In what cases could this have happened? Thirdly, are pregnant women, sick people, people with mental problems and the like also being placed in detention in our country? So these are vulnerable profiles. Fourthly, what is your policy on vulnerable persons in detention? Is vulnerability a criterion for placing a person in illegal residence in detention or not? Who evaluates this vulnerability? What are the criteria for this? Fifthly, if certain profiles are systematically not placed in detention, what will happen to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u63	Mr De Vriendt, as regards your comment on the preventive measures, I refer to the answer given to question No. 1024 by Mrs Monica De Coninck, on preventive measures to combat disappearances. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that both measures, as set out in Articles 7414, §2 of the Foreigner's Act and 110m of the Foreigner's Decision, are not currently being applied as such. I can still tell you that, as far as reporting is concerned, there was a project for families in 2008. They had to register with DVZ on invitation to prepare their identification and removal, together with DVZ. Given the very poor results, only 10% of the invited families volunteered, two families volunteered for voluntary return, and one family has finally returned voluntarily, and the project was negatively evaluated and stopped. To some extent this is used for the return of families from their own home. Families can be accompanied, under certain conditions, to return from their own home by an accompanying DVZ official. In 2016, 129 families were invited to such home coaching and 87 families volunteered for a return call. As far as depositing a guarantee is concerned, the effect in practice does not appear to be easy. A working group within DVZ will examine alternatives to detention, including a thorough analysis of the feasibility of the guarantee. We are almost done with the KB on alternatives to detention. We have already experimented before, but that notification was not really a success. Of the 150 families who were invited, 15 have offered and one family has finally returned. In addition to that, it does not appear to be so obvious what it has cost. If one can no longer stay on Belgian territory, one will initially be given an order to leave the territory. The foreigner will be informed of his rights and obligations upon service of GVV. The foreigner will also be reminded of the importance of a voluntary or independent departure. It is voluntary with support while it is self-sufficient with own resources. It is primarily up to the person concerned to follow the order independently. If it is established, at an address check or after an interception, that the FGM has not been followed, one can be held in a closed centre. The legislation in force, namely Article 7 of the Foreigner's Act, which provides that the alien may be detained where there is a risk of hiding or where the alien avoids or impedes the preparation of the return or removal procedure, is, of course, the case in the event of failure to comply with an order to leave the territory. A stranger who systematically withdraws from the Belgian authorities by, for example, not reporting his or her presence or not passing on his or her address may also be detained on the basis of risk of absconding. Whether or not the alien is detained is also determined by the available places in the closed centres at the time of interception. If there is no place, the person concerned will be ordered to leave the territory or the order already received will be confirmed and the person concerned will have to leave the territory. It is not true that certain profiles are systematically not held. I repeat that, in the first instance, it is up to the person concerned to comply with the order to leave the territory. In principle, unaccompanied minors are not forced to be removed through the Foreign Affairs Office and therefore not held in a closed centre. A certified unaccompanied minor identified by the Voogdij as an unaccompanied minor or a person for whom there is no doubt as to his minority shall be placed in one of the Orientation and Observation (OOC) centres by order of the guardianship service. It happens that a person whose detention is not clear whether or not he is a minor at the time of the interception in the interior or when he arrives at the border is detained, after which the person concerned declares that he is a minor in the closed centre. The person concerned will then remain in the centre until the results of the minor examination are known. If the person concerned proves to be an effective minor, he shall be immediately released from the closed centre and transferred to the custody service. So it is not true that people who claim to be underage are always released immediately, because if that rule were to apply, everyone would declare that he or she is underage and then we would have to take a bone scan with everyone. We're running bone scans now where someone turns out to be more than 30 years old. The record is someone who claimed to be underage, whose bone scan showed him to be 36 years old. I can feel your reaction coming, but if we apply the rule from tomorrow that those who claim to be minors are released immediately, then the day after tomorrow no one will be in our closed centres. You may say that we must release those concerned until the results of the bone scan are known, so that we can be sure that the person concerned is underage, but then everyone will request a bone scan, including those who have been for 50 years. I'm not saying you say that, but I can hear you coming. I have therefore already answered that question. I come to your third and fourth questions. Persons subject to the expulsion measures but in a special situation, other than for financial or economic reasons, must also return to their country of origin, as provided for in Belgian legislation. It is therefore possible that pregnant women, sick people and persons with mental health problems may be kept in a closed centre, in so far as it is humanly possible and provided with an appropriate framework. You also know that the forced removal is not applied from three or four months of pregnancy. However, there is always a medical check. There must always be a doctor's fit to fly. There are rules for that, too. DVZ provides a multidisciplinary approach for vulnerable people. The detection is done as much as possible before the detention. On the basis of information in the file, measures can already be taken for the stay in the closed centre and/or support during the flight. In the centre vulnerable people are followed through the social team, the medical service, a psychologist, a resident attaché and so on. There is a priority handling of the file by the central services, through the coordinating psychologist. In order to better manage these persons, the staff of the centres shall be trained in the supervision of those target groups, in the handling of those persons and in the preparation for departure. On the basis of the experience of the staff, an analysis can be made of the needs of the persons concerned, if necessary in the country of origin. During the stay in the center it may be useful to provide specialist external assistance from psychiatrists, nurses and so on. In addition to the general framework mentioned above, there is also a special needs project, which provides tailored support for vulnerable people. The framework during the stay in the centre may consist of urgent psychiatric assistance, the purchase of specific medications or other medical devices. Staff are trained to detect vulnerable persons and deal with specific problems. During the return, the support may consist of a medical escort. Support after return is organised with local partners and may consist of reintegration support and medical follow-up. I believe that we are doing a great deal to detect this vulnerability. This is, of course, always difficult in the context of forced removals. Minors are absolutely avoided. It's not gonna be done. Of course, a bone scan is done first when there is doubt about age. If we see a manifesto that someone is underage, then we will never lock that person up. It may be that the evening before the scheduled flight from the LOIs, when the parents are locked up, the children are asked if they are going with us. So that's just before the flight. If the parents agree, the children may sleep with their mother, often in the Caricole or the center 127bis. If the flight is very early, for example at 6.00 a.m., they must be at the airport at 4.00 a.m. If the mother then asks if the children can sleep with her.It is a stressful situation.Then it happens in a closed center, but then it happens at the request of the mother. We have never received a complaint about this. In our extensive complaint procedures there are no complaints about it. It could occur virtually a few times a year. When I visit Mr Freddy Roosemont, I always ask what is the situation with regard to minors and what is the arrangement? There'll be no minors locked up. This can only be done in the event that a person is arrested, is questioned about his minority, does not say anything to the person concerned, but then suddenly in the centre claims that he or she is a minor. In that case, we will check whether the bone scan also shows that he or she is a minor. Mr De Vriendt, if he or she is arrested and declares that he or she is a minor, he or she will not be locked up. That only happens after a bone scan. When he or she is arrested and declares that he or she is a minor, he or she is not locked up. That only happens when he or she doesn't say anything when he or she is arrested, but suddenly in the center claims to be a minor. I also have no rules other than those used in the past. Those rules have been applied for decades. Nothing has changed, even since the time when purple green was the policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, that is a clear answer from you on the subject of minors. You reply that, in principle, unaccompanied minors are not placed in detention, except when there is confusion about age. In that case, there may be a certain detention period. When it comes to families with children, it may be possible to do so on the last night just before the return. We will, of course, follow that answer closely and carefully. If we get signals from the opposite, we will report it. At least you gave a clear answer. I'd like to encourage you to work on alternatives to detention. I can understand why this is not obvious. However, there are a number of possible alternatives, such as the guarantee scheme, the deposit of the identity card or a copy of it, home guidance and open centres. Our position is that alternatives must first be tried before someone is put into detention. However, I understand from your answer that this does not always happen. That's disturbing. It could be a nice arrangement to first use an alternative to detention. Detention is particularly profound and traumatic. We then come to the term "risk of hiding'. If that term is interpreted too widely or if it is found too easily that there is a risk of hiding and so someone is easily placed in detention, that is not the way we see the problem. Could you please comment briefly on that? Do you agree that an alternative to detention should always be tried first and that, if the alternative fails, detention will only be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u65	As I said, the KB is almost done. We will present it to the Council of State and then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, the situation in Myanmar is well known: ethnic cleansing, genocide, many people fleeing, extreme violence, extremely high deaths, extreme atrocities against women and children. The testimonies of refugees, who begin to seep through, speak for themselves. Pressure has been exerted, but there is no sustainable solution yet. Moreover, the situation in the refugee camps in Bangladesh is not good. Many refugees are severely traumatized and have to survive in these camps in very difficult conditions. It's about people who would qualify for protection status. Are you prepared to examine with the UN Refugee Organisation whether resettlement of the most vulnerable refugees from Myanmar is an option? What numbers are feasible or realistic? Are there European or international initiatives in favour of the refugees from Myanmar? Is Belgium taking part in this? How many Rohingya or Burmese have applied for asylum in Belgium in the past year? How many were there in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u67	Mr De Vriendt, at the moment resettlement of the Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh does not seem to be an option. Bangladesh has not allowed resettlement of Rohingya refugees since 2010 for fear of a pull effect, with more Rohingya refugees coming to Bangladesh in the hope of being resettled from there. The UNHCR is already in favour of the recent refugee crisis in order to unblock the situation and re-establish it from Bangladesh, but so far without success. The question is best addressed to the Foreign and Development Ministers. Belgium remains a major donor of UNHCR, the 21st donor worldwide with 20 million dollars in 2017. Last year four people from Myanmar applied for asylum in Belgium. Two persons submitted a first application for asylum and two others submitted a multiple application for asylum. In 2016 four people from Myanmar also applied for asylum in our country. There were then four multiple asylum applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, that is, of course, a very low number of asylum seekers. It shows that those refugees, who need protection, do not get here. If the situation there is unblocked and if a greater effort can be made by European countries to receive refugees, then I would ask that Belgium participate in it. I would also like to tell you that I also put the same question to Minister De Croo and Minister Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u69	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, if everything goes as planned, a new ferry line between Ramsgate and Ostend will be put into operation on 1 March next year. This activity will probably lead to an increase in the number of transit migrants, who will see an additional possibility of getting to Great Britain illegally. In the meantime, it has been over five years since the ferry service was still operating in Ostend, but even then the city was regularly confronted with a significant increase in illegals. Tine Wyns, the director of CAW North-West Flanders, even stated that there is already an increase in the number of transit migrants moving to Ostend. In Het Laatste Nieuws this month, she said that those involved, among other things, end up here via human smugglers. Mr. Secretary of State, is it true what the director says? Is there an increase in the number of illegal transit migrants in Ostend? If so, will checks on illegal residence in and around the coastal city be stepped up? How many illegals were arrested during these actions and were ordered to leave the territory? How many were transferred to a closed return centre for repatriation? What measures have already been taken by this government to prevent Ostend from re-applying the new ferry line with an increase in illegal immigrants? In De Standaard, mayor of Ostend Vande Lanotte said in November that the city council is in full consultation with your colleague from the Interior, with you, as well as with judicial circles and social organisations. Can you explain the outcome of this consultation to which the mayor refers? What agreements were made and what measures were taken? Mr Vande Lanotte stated in the same newspaper on the same date that it was not intended to keep the transit migrants away but to keep them out of the city and the terminal. Do you share this vision or are policies limited to combating illegal residence in the city? Finally, the director of the CAW Noord-West Flanders, for example, advocates setting up a reception centre outside the city where medical care, legal assistance and basic facilities such as food are provided. Have you won for such an initiative, for setting up such a centre, or do you share the fear that such a centre could have an effect on illegal transit migrants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u70	Mrs Pas, I can only base myself on the number of administrative reports from the foreign controls that the police services provide to DVZ. On this basis, there is no increase in the number of transit migrants in Ostend. If I look only at the numbers of the shipping police, which should give a good picture of transit migration, I even see a falling trend. As regards the overview of the number of administrative reports received in 2017 from the police and shipping police in Ostend, I will not read the figures in the table I have here. I'll have the table delivered to you. In any case, this number is not rising, it is falling. That is therefore contrary to what is being said. We do not see everything, but these are figures that come from the police and the shipping police. So I really don't know where you're getting that from. The DVZ liaison officer for West Flanders who, among other things, is responsible for the follow-up of transit migration in the coastal region from Ostend is not informed that there is a problem with transit migration. The social sector does report an increase, but there are no objective figures. As stated above, DVZ's information depends on the police's involvement and I refer you to the relevant Minister for the Interior to clarify these questions. The social sector reports that there would be an increase. But who is it about? Is it about washed-up people? As you know, Ostend is a terminus city. A lot of people are coming in Ostend. It is not always clear whether they are aiming for a transit towards the UK. Sometimes it's social, I'll put it this way. No additional actions are currently being organised by the Ostend local police in relation to transit migration. In the context of Medusa, however, actions are organized by the federal police on tram connections in other coastal cities that lead to and from Ostend. We continue to work on a multidisciplinary approach to transit migration in general. For this purpose, the various services concerned........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We also have a working group on transit migration, which meets very regularly and follows up on matters. When the problem is shifted, the focus is shifted to the problem areas and a plan of action is put in place. Even before the decision to re-establish a ferry line between Ostend and the United Kingdom, there was a consultation between the Jambon cabinet and my cabinet, the Ostend city administration and the port administration. The Mayor of Ostend was reminded of the significant risks of transit migration that a new ferry line to the United Kingdom would entail. He knew that. Mr Vande Lanotte is wise enough to know that, I should not tell him that, he knew that anyway. Yet that has happened. For your fifth question, please refer to Minister Jambon, who is responsible for the federal police. Then I come to your sixth and seventh questions. The transit migrants only see Ostend as a stopover to the United Kingdom. Supporting them would be to encourage illegal migration. I fear, therefore, that if we do not put an end to this, we will have an effect. As in dealing with the problem of closing the tent camp in Calais, the problem of transit migration in and around the Maximilian Park and the North Station, if problems arise, we will use a multidisciplinary approach to halt trafficking in human beings. The efforts of the police and the DVD to address the problem of transit migration will be continued as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, you say that this consultation with the port administration, the cabinet of your colleague Mr Jambon and the city administration has been pointed out the risks of transit migration which can result in a ferry line. My question was, however, whether there were any agreements or specific measures taken to combat these risks? Or is all this covered in the Working Party on Transit Migration, where we are looking at this not only for the ferry line from Ostend but for all transit migrants? I hope that people will be proactive. The numbers would be down. I'll take a closer look at the numbers you're going to get. However, with the introduction of that ferry line, they cannot be expected to rise rapidly. I hope that there will be a proactive effort to do something concrete about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u72	Mr Secretary of State, since I have been waiting about a year for the answer to my written question No. 957 on this issue, unfortunately, I am obliged to put the question orally. For each of the years 2008 to 2017, in so far as the figures for this year are available, please provide the following information. Firstly, how many temporary residence authorisations were granted under the Article 9b procedure, and in particular in how many cases were the subject of a first temporary authorisation? In how many cases were a first extension, in how many cases were a second extension, in how many cases were a third extension and in how many cases were a fourth extension? How many initial applications for temporary authorisation were refused on the substance, i.e. after the admissibility phase? How many first extensions, second, third and fourth extensions were refused? How many initial applications were declared inadmissible? How many first, second, third and fourth extensions were declared inadmissible? Secondly, how many permanent residence permits were granted in each of those years? In how many cases were an initial application for permanent residence authorisation, i.e. without the applicant having previously obtained a temporary stay authorisation? In how many cases had the applicant previously obtained a temporary stay authorisation? In how many cases had the applicant already obtained a first, second, third or fourth renewal of a temporary stay authorisation before obtaining his permanent residence authorisation? It is not obvious to put these questions orally. I wrote them all down over a year ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u73	The Foreign Office doesn't have detailed figures. The Rules of Procedure provide that you may convert written questions into oral questions if you have not received an answer within 30 days. I don't have a problem with that. It happens once that a question stays a long time. All other figures are published monthly on the website of the Foreign Office. So you can just go to the website to consult those figures. I've got the numbers on me again. You will find an overview of the number of temporary and permanent stays in the procedure, based on Article 9b of January 2008, until September 2017. However, it should be noted that in the period 2009 to 2012 the 9ter procedure was also regularised on grounds other than medical. That explains the high figures for those years. The data are published monthly on the DVZ website. DVZ does not have more detailed figures, as requested. I will give you the figures, Mr De Vriendt. You won't have to wait another year. After 30 days, you can convert your question into an oral question. I don't mind at all. I did nothing else with Mrs De Block and Mr Wathelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u74	When I see the answer, I do not think it is difficult to answer it within 30 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u75	I'll find out why.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, Lebanon has already received more than 1 million Syrian refugees since the outbreak of the Syrian civil war in 2011. Twenty-five percent of the population in Lebanon are Syrian refugees and eighty percent of them are women and children. The living conditions in Lebanon are significantly worse than those in Turkey. Seven out of ten Syrian refugees in Lebanon live in extreme poverty. The often already poor local population receiving them sees the living conditions in their neighbourhoods deteriorate. Belgium could help relieve the pressure in Lebanon through the resettlement of Syrian refugees. It seems to us that in Lebanon there is an equally great, if not greater, need for resettlement of refugees than in Turkey. Do you agree with this? How many Syrian refugees has Belgium specifically re-established from Lebanon in recent years compared to the number of re-established from Turkey, including the 1-to-1 mechanism? I am therefore asking for comparative figures. How many of the 1 050 refugees that Belgium will resettle next year are provided from Lebanon? Are you prepared to step up the resettlement efforts from Lebanon unilaterally? Is there also room for a European initiative in this respect? What is your policy on humanitarian visas in Lebanon? How many applications for a humanitarian visa took place at the Beirut Embassy in the years 2014 to 2017? How many of these have been approved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u78	Mr De Vriendt, I am certainly aware of the problematic situation of Syrian refugees in Lebanon. In the beginning of September, I was in the country. I also visited refugee camps, including in the Beka Valley, where I spoke with refugees, so I am certainly well aware of that. From the start of Belgium's participation in the Syrian refugee resettlement programme in 2015, Belgium has invested most in resettlement from Lebanon. In 2015, Belgium re-established 141 Syrian refugees from Lebanon, in 2016 298, and in 2017 to date 293. The total number of refugees resettled from Turkey in 2015 was 43, in 2016 102 and in 2017 to date 721. 578 of the Syrians re-established from Turkey were re-established in the framework of the EU-Turkey deal. So that's another thing. Following the September visit, I increased our resettlement efforts from Lebanon, from 300 in 2017 to 350 in 2018 and 2019. Belgium thus follows the recommendations of the European Commission, which in 2017 called on its Member States to increase resettlement efforts to 50 000 in 2018 and 2019. In concrete terms, the Commission is asking to focus on Syrians relocating from Turkey under the 1-to-1 programme, the successor of the Voluntary Humanitarian Admission Scheme, as well as Syrians residing in Lebanon or Jordan. Belgium is doing more than its share with its pledges for 2018 and 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u79	The answer went pretty fast. I'll read it. Did you say anything about the humanitarian visa?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u80	In 2017 I granted 160 visas-D to Syrian refugees in Lebanon for humanitarian reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of November the case became known of a family with two children, 1 and 5 years old, who were expelled by Fedasil after submitting a second asylum application. They were received for 16 days by volunteers as good and as angry as can be. Eventually, Fedasil returned to his decision, including a letter from the Federal Ombudsman. It is true that, in the event of abuse, the Reception Act allows asylum seekers to be deprived of the right to receive asylum in the event of a subsequent application for asylum, and this until the new application has been declared admissible. Until some time ago, Fedasil did so without individual justification and without investigation. This goes against the law. Refugee work Flanders rightly addressed this problem earlier this year. Since then, the situation would have improved and Fedasil would individually examine the vulnerability of those concerned before taking care of them. When it comes to minors, this vulnerability seems fairly obvious to us. How do you explain that, despite the individual assessment by Fedasil, a family with two very young children can still end up on the streets? How do you explain that it took Fedasil two weeks to come to the conclusion that there was vulnerability in this case? Do you confirm that Fedasil has recently assessed individually whether there is abuse in every decision to take care of the care? Do you confirm that this is the only criterion for taking care of the child? Does Fedasil also take into account factors such as the vulnerability of the asylum seeker and the greater importance of the child? Do you recognise that these may be factors that justify continued reception? In what cases do you consider it justified to take care of minors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u82	Mr De Vriendt, I am not communicating about the content of individual files. The Federal Ombudsman's application was received on 10 November. The response of the Director-General of Fedasil was sent on 17 November. Fedasil shall examine the situation on the basis of the information available to it. Fedasil's checking for abuse. Fedasil takes into account factors such as vulnerability and the greater importance of the minor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, that is a very brief answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u84	Last week my policy paper was debated in committee. Your presence was expected on another committee, so you were apologized. I found it very disrespectful of your colleagues to come here only at 09.45 hours, while an important committee on foreign missions already took place at 09.00 hours. We have been on that committee together for years and I know that you have always been present and I very much appreciate that aspect of your work as a Member of Parliament. You asked your questions in the previous sitting and then you apologized. You couldn't hear the answers because you had to go to another committee meeting. However, you may ask your staff member and any other member of the committee present: I have been addressing questions about multiple asylum applications and reception for a very long time. I have dealt with this issue very extensively. Now you are suggesting that I give a very brief answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u85	Mr Secretary of State, it is clear that there are problems in this area. Many of the multiple applicants have a vulnerable profile. There are many complaints and signals that those involved, often children, are being thrown out without any care. We are opposed to this, and we ask you to deal with it together with Fedasil, so that the right to housing remains guaranteed. It is not a question of families with children having to appeal to volunteers who have to jump in head-on when they find that someone is being evicted from an asylum centre. So there's something going wrong after all. I'd like to ask you to investigate that and remedy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u86	Mr Secretary of State, this is another question that was first put in writing on 28 September. I have not received an answer within 30 days. In the meantime, the private asylum centres are closed. Evaluations or audits were carried out by Fedasil. Those audits were carried out about four months after the opening of the centres concerned. Following negative comments in the audit reports, were new audits or evaluations carried out in order to follow up the negative points? If so, can you give me a copy or give me access to all the reports and reports of these new checks for each asylum centre separately? Were there any consequences of the negative comments in the first reports, for example on compensation or subsidies to the companies that were responsible for the organisation of the care? If so, which one? Can you give an overview per asylum centre and company?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u87	Each audit report was followed up. Monitoring visits were made on the following days: at Zwijndrecht Senior Assist on 7 June 2016 and 5 July 2016. I'll give you all the dates. I also have some additional information. Medical training took place on 24 May 2016 for all medical staff. That's a basic formation, mandatory for all private operators. The floor day for all private operators took place on March 13th and May 24th 2016. The multidisciplinary coaching takes place daily, via mail and telephone permanence. There are bimonthly meetings between the municipal administration, the police services, the operators and Fedasil, mainly in Binche and Walcourt. There are regular visits in reception centres, several times a year. There was no need to send formal notice, impose sanctions or withdraw subsidies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u88	Thank you, but I had also asked for a copy of the reports on the new controls. Or at least inspection, as was done for the first audit reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u89	All private initiatives are closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u90	They are closed, but you said that there has been follow-up to a number of negative findings in the first audit reports. I would like to see the written impact of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u91	There have been audits. Then there were follow-up monitoring visits. There may be reports of that, I don't know. I'll have to look into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u92	Do you understand why I'm asking that question? The first audits included a number of negative points.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u93	I read that in the paper. That's odd, because those audits were confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u94	I want to know if those points have been remediated or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u95	I read that in the paper. I didn't mean to, I mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u96	In the paper? That didn't appear in the paper?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u97	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u98	In any case, as a Member of this House, I would like to know whether those negative points have been remediated. So I'd like to look at those reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u99	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u100	You'll be able to prove that again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u101	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u102	I will look into the new reports with great interest, possibly here at the committee secretariat. However, I really insist that they be made available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u103	We will examine how the reports can be viewed: in the manner you have mentioned or by electronic means of distribution or with inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u104	Mr President, of course we prefer to have a copy. That would be a sign of even more transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u105	That will depend on the author and on the extent to which they are confidential or not confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u106	Mr President, what I would like to know, for the sake of clarity, is whether we can get a written record of the extent to which all the negative points per asylum centre were remediated. Did you do that by visiting the premises or by consulting them? I would like to have access to the written proof of that. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u107	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u108	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, they are already closed, but it is always useful to learn lessons. Of course, I'm interested in the data. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u109	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we were all moved to learn on Saturday night that a university professor invited to Belgium by the Free University of Brussels had been placed in a closed centre following border checks. Since this information has been relayed by the press, I cannot understand that we can come to such a situation. How was it not envisaged to verify that this university vice-president was actually invited by the ULB? How was it that he was not given the opportunity to call his colleagues, who could have provided the requested documents? Is it because of the zeal of a customs officer? More personally, I think this is, unfortunately, the result of the climate that you impose on the reception of foreigners. Mr Franken, how is it possible to give such a disastrous picture of our country, even at the academic level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u110	Mr President, Secretary of State, Professor Hakkou travelled to Belgium on Friday because he has a research project at the French-speaking University of ULB. His passport and visa already gave him several times access to Belgian territory, but on Friday it went wrong. After border control he was locked up in the closed center of Steenokkerzeel. However, Mr Hakkou was invited as part of a university cooperation project financed by the federal government. Mr Secretary of State, why didn't Professor Hakkou get a chance to make a phone call to his colleagues from the ULB? Why didn't the border police verify his invitation from the ULB? How can this be avoided in the future? Should a professor from Leuven be received in this way where you would probably be close by in Morocco, there would probably be a whole riot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u111	If that professor isn't okay with his visa conditions, he won't be able to get into Morocco either. The person concerned offered himself at border control at Gosselies airport on 1 December, coming from a flight from Morocco. The Schengen Borders Code, EU Regulation 2016/399, sets the entry conditions for third-country nationals. These conditions must be fulfilled by all third-country nationals when they present at the external border. These entry conditions in Belgium are verified by the federal police. So you're asking the wrong question, but I'll answer where I can. One of the entry conditions is to provide proof of sufficient means of subsistence for the duration of the intended stay. It is up to the third-country national himself to prove this. The interested party wished to make a stay until 9 December 2017 inclusive. On his arrival on 1 December, he had only 85 euros on him and was in possession of neither a bank card nor a credit card. Per day of stay, the foreigner must be in possession of 95 euros for hotel accommodation and 85 euros for accommodation with an individual or credit card. As I just said, he had no cash, no bank card or credit card. Nor was he in possession of a valid and legalized certificate of care for his stay in Belgium. That's a second problem. Consequently, the person concerned did not comply with one of the conditions of entry and was denied access. That was completely correct. Sorry, the rules apply to everyone, professor or not. Like any person detained in a closed centre, the person concerned had the opportunity to telephone a gsm of the centre which was made available to him. As far as the situation of the border police is concerned, I refer you to the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for the matter. Just to be clear, when he arrived at the center, he was able to make an immediate phone call. What happened at the border when he was still in Gosselies, I don't know. You must ask Mr Jambon. Then there's the question of whether he didn't meet the entry conditions. I can assume, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and Mrs De Coninck, that these conditions apply to everyone and that they must be met. If you arrive at the Moroccan border with 80 or 85 euros, without a bank or credit card, you will not enter. Same for the States of Algeria. These are conditions set out in the European Schengen Visa Code. You may be in favour of a more flexible interpretation. I would very much like to hear you say that this must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The police must then know exactly who they are dealing with and then decide in each case whether or not the conditions are met. I read the report on Sunday. In my view, the police have done nothing wrong. I don't know if anyone should have let that guy on the phone with anyone. I am not speaking on that point. You must ask Mr Jambon. As soon as he was in the closed center of 170bis, he could immediately call because he immediately got a cell phone at his disposal. This also applies to any person being locked up there. He arrived in the closed center Saturday morning. He was able to make a phone call. I don't know who he just called. I find it bizarre that instead of calling us, the ULB immediately put this in the media. I don't know what that was supposed to mean. At least they haven't contacted the Foreign Office. In itself, this is a strange way of working. The blame was placed on us, but we are not to blame. There's been a first contact on Saturday night. This contact did not go through the ULB, but through the Moroccan ambassador. We have very good contacts with the ambassador. In the course of Sunday, around 12 noon, Mr Roosemont contacted me. He didn't dare do that Saturday night late, I guess. I also consulted with him, as well as with the embassy. We released him on Sunday afternoon because the charges were in order and the hotel and so on turned out to be in order. You should know he didn't have any evidence of the hotel reservation. That was just not right, dear people. That really wasn't right. I'm sticking with it. I will not say that the border police and our services never make a mistake, that is absolutely true. They're just people, and sometimes mistakes happen at the border. However, in this case I have read the reports and I believe that no mistake was made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u112	Secretary of State, I thought you were going to explain to us that this was an excess of zeal on the part of a person. You didn't do it, you do it. I recognize that you fully assume your policy. I suppose the university professor – who speaks French, I think – had to explain that he was on a mission as part of an academic collaboration. I think he had to explain that his colleagues were there and that they could provide all the documentation. I understand that federal agents are human beings who make mistakes, but I am almost embarrassed to remind you that the people who arrive, even if they are strangers, are human beings too! I think we're still seeing foreign criminalization here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u113	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u114	This will be the next step: Members of Parliament will be cut off. Over time, the dynamics and steps have been the same. We're going after the most fragile, we're doing propaganda. It used to be on posters, and today it's on Twitter. We're spreading his filthy propaganda! Secretary of State, with your policy, you become impoverished every day. You have succeeded in insidiously inserting into the minds of people and federal agents that the foreigner is a criminal. That's not right! It is unworthy of a country like Belgium, it is unworthy of a democracy, it is unworthy of a rule of law, it is unworthy of a member of government. All over the world, petitions are being signed and outraged when intellectuals and university professors are locked up in Turkey because they represent freedom and freedom of thought. You managed to do the same in Belgium! And the worst is that you justify these positions in front of parliamentarians! I'm sorry to have to tell you, Mr. Franken, that this is unworthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic774x.u115	Mr Secretary of State, I have been to Morocco a few times and I have never been asked how much money I had or asked for a credit card. Just so we're clear, I've never been there before and I've been there a few times. I didn't even book a hotel; I was with someone private. I don't think that's a fairly normal procedure or that's often controlled. I will, of course, also put the question to Minister Jambon. Here's what I don't understand. Why hasn't border control contacted the ULB? If there is a charge, if a hotel had already been booked, they knew it was someone who came here and would go back. He has already been to Belgium a few times with his passport and visa. I suspect that's also visible on his international passport. In that sense, the story still raises a lot of questions.
