ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u2	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2864: Peter De Roover, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael - 819: Benoît Dispa, Benoît Lutgen, Catherine Fonck, Vanessa Matz. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Crusnière and Mr Van de Velde.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u4	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u5	Mr President, you have given me the floor. Then I can say something, can't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u6	With great pleasure, colleague Van de Velde.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u7	Mr President, I am pleased to refer to the written report, but I would like to add that it has been due to an improbable commitment of the services of the Chamber that this report, also in writing, is available today. I would like to thank the services for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Van de Velde. As I said, the general discussion has been opened. Ladies and gentlemen, for the time being, only two speakers have been registered, but I imagine that other members will not fail to register.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of the start of our marathon, which will continue throughout next year to discuss the reform of corporate tax. Having said that, it is difficult not to mention the political context in which things are going on, namely a summer agreement in Tomorowland, but which, in the end, will have been without success, since half of the projects covered by the agreement are postponed when we were told that the projects formed a coherent political whole and that they had to be debated and voted on in their entirety. However, we are far from the point, since this totally absurd and unbudgetable project, which provides for an exemption of 500 euros for so-called occasional work, is postponed until next year. Some members of the majority have, moreover, not failed to let me know that they were satisfied with it, proof of this is that this project is carried by only one party, namely the Open Vld, which is thus undressed. But it's not for lack of warning. Indeed, we told them that their project was not on the road, that it had been drawn up without social consultation, without consultation of the other levels of power, that it was out of step from a legal point of view and that it had to take time to examine it calmly. More surprisingly, another case is being carried over to next year, namely the one relating to the tax on securities accounts. So that's very strange, because I don't think this case is intrinsically linked to the other plan for the 500 euro exemption per month. But he was deliberately and politically bound by the majority for reasons which are obviously due to a problem of cohesion within the majority government, so that this dossier, which was perfectly in a position to be voted on, is also sent back sine die. It is in my opinion and more than likely the beginning of a long saga. All this, of course, in terms of policy, does not give your government and your majority a flattering image! You claim to provide solutions when you are not able to solve your own problems. This is the first observation which is the introduction and general framework in which we will have our discussion of corporate tax reform. So today you have a majority that is disunited, that produces political DIY, legal DIY and, in the end, legal insecurity. Because this climate that you create yourself is not conducive to developing a policy that can claim economic efficiency and legal stability. In concrete terms, this means that the expectations of the population, with regard to their standard of living, well-being, social protection; the expectations of the economic world, which wants measures to promote employment and investment in a secure environment, today, reflect their concerns. They let us know, they mobilize tens of thousands in relation to pensions. They let us know by means of press releases, requests for hearings, which are unfortunately organised in haste! It was necessary to convince you – but forceps – to hear from all the social partners, but also from the voluntary sector, the Union of Middle Classes, UNIZO, the FGTB, the CSC, the CGSLB, the FEB, in the framework of your draft law on the 500 euros, on casual work and it was really only at the last minute that you agreed to carry out these hearings. In the same way, as far as corporate tax is concerned, the Union of the Middle Classes, as early as October, was sending you this message: you are making a reform of corporate tax in the trompe l'oeil, we want to be heard. Here too, end of non-receiving. It took courage, but also the determination of the opposition, in particular the Socialist Group, to demand and obtain these hearings in a particularly difficult context. In short, you are not making every effort to develop a policy worthy of the name, which pursues both general interests but also aims at efficiency. We're a long way from it. Therefore, the instability of your government also produces instability in general, and in particular, with regard to the economic and social fabric. Government work has been sloppy, improvised. Moreover, strangely, it took you six months, between July and today, to table these pieces of legislation. What did you do for six months? It took you all this time to be able to transpose, formalize in bills, agreements for which you sabbed champagne at the Tomorrowland festival, with many photos, as if to better narrate those who do not expect you to go to this festival but rather to take care of their situation by trying to find solutions. We're really a long way from it. Then we have to tell you how much you missed everything you had to succeed in your methodology. First of all, you had to ensure, for a text as fundamental as the corporate tax reform project, its legal reliability. You had to be able to carry out a work which, from the point of view of law, is rigorous, in other words, which leaves no room for approximation, which ensures that the areas of dispute are resolved, which will prevent you from finding yourself tomorrow with problems both with the European Commission, which could blame you for non-compliance with European law, and with a whole series of actors who, considering that they are discriminated against, could quarrel with your texts before the Constitutional Court. And for that, one thing had to be done: to consult the legislative section of the Council of State. Of course, you did, but by asking him, for such a large file of more than 700 pages, to answer within thirty days. The Council of State explicitly blames you for this. The Council of State tells you that it has not been able, in 30 days, to provide a serious and sufficient analysis of such a vast and complex text, implying that there are certain points on which it will not decide, for lack of time! And, even though he pronounces himself, he finds that there are problems in different places. So you took six months to formalize your corporate tax reform project, but you left only thirty to the Council of State to give you an opinion that might have avoided some problems. Second false step, your relationship with the economic and social fabric. You tell us that you have consulted and associated a number of actors – indeed, FEB, UNIZO. Next, we learn that the UCM as well as Brussels and Francophone SMEs have not received sufficient attention from you. Minister, you have claimed the opposite in committee. But yesterday, we heard the UCM president say and recall that, of course, there had been informal exchanges between advisers but no real discussion with the official representatives of the UCM under conditions allowing the contradictory debate to be heard on certain points, to clarify the figures, the simulations and to clarify the issues of timeliness. Because it's not all about numbers. To match your announcement of a 14% decline in ISOC while they find that there are sometimes only a few hundred euros won, when in some cases they do not lose there, this is the real problem! In doing so, we discover that not only has the UCM not been properly heard, but it is also gathering insults, insults, I am saying, from a number of members of the majority; it is totally unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u10	Do I understand the discussion as follows? According to the Union des Classes Moyennes, a company that pays at least 45 000 euros to the manager can benefit from the reduced rate. Its argument is that in Brussels and Wallonia the amounts will be lower as they pay less. The logical consequence would be to bring that figure down: no more 45 000, but from 30 000, or 20 000, or 15 000. Then one must confess colour in the discussion. A lot of time is devoted to the argument of the Union des Classes Moyennes. Is the PS in favour of using 45 000 instead of 40 000 or 35 000, at least a lower amount than currently proposed? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u11	Mr Laaouej, what is important is that, throughout the legislative process, the 50% rule is quite clear. Annex to Mr Bogaert's question, I would like to ask you if you would like a reduction. If you want a reduction, what will you do with the 50/50 ratio between profit and remuneration manager, which allows the general principle as an exception? The economic situation is not the same for a self-employed and a small enterprise every year, and I can imagine that managers pay a different salary one year than the other. That seems logical to me. Then why do you think a reduction is good and why do you not mention that 50/50 ratio?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u12	This question is a little strange. Who spoke of reducing the amount by 36,000 euros? I read the report in extenso last night, which took me a few hours. I challenge you to find in this report, from the exchanges we had in committee, a single sentence indicating that any member of the opposition would have said that this amount should be reduced by EUR 36,000. I am talking about the remuneration of business leaders, for those who follow our debates and wonder what the subject is. I'm answering Mr. Bogaert. He wasn't there, but I don't use that kind of argument. Mr. Maybe Van Rompuy can give him his file. No one has asked to reduce the current amount to 36 000 euros. For the rest, the 50/50 rule already exists. If, in fact, you pay at least the same amount as the taxable result of the exercise, you are entitled to the reduced rate. No one says otherwise and no one wants to question that. Mr Bogaert, if you haven't read it, I'll tell you. It is strange that you have deleted a provision, the famous 13% rule. Do you know her, Mr. Van Biesen? Who knows her? Mr. Van de Velde knows her, Mr Piedboeuf knows her, like everyone else. I'll repeat it anyway. To qualify for the reduced rate, no more than 13% of dividends must be distributed in relation to capital. What is the purpose of this measure? The aim is to avoid undercapitalisation of companies and to encourage them to keep money within them to strengthen their solvency and prospects for sustainable growth. In fact, this is what the President of the Union of Middle Classes said: "Our figures and simulations do not show that you are honouring your commitment to reduce corporate taxes for SMEs by 14%. This may be true for large companies, but not for SMEs. On the other hand, we looked at the sociology of our Brussels and Walloon companies. We note that a majority of people do not give 45,000 euros. We're much lower. We are actually closer to the 36 000 euros, no more or less. We're not saying anything else. Mr Van de Velde and Mr Bogaert, a little before 10 a.m., I received an email – I think other opposition groups have received it – reporting on an exchange of e-mails between the Union of Middle Classes and the cabinet of the Minister of Finance, with considerations on the figures. That's the problem! It's a methodological problem. You have not given the possibility of an adversarial debate with the Union of the Middle Classes. Mr Piedboeuf, I regret that someone like you is not sensitive to the fact that the representatives of the Middle Class Union, in other words Brussels and Walloon SMEs, say to you: "We can exchange arguments, you can tell us that we are right or that we are wrong. But give us the opportunity to be heard!" It's obviously too late! You left the middle class, Mr. Piedboeuf. That is the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Laaouej for his very clear answer. He says he doesn't want the PS to lower the threshold of 36 000. That is exactly what the Union des Classes Moyennes is asking for. That is the point of the whole political debate. Mr Laaouej, the way in which the interaction has taken place can be discussed, but the point of the whole political debate is that the Union des Classes Moyennes says that 36 000 is too high for French-speaking companies in Wallonia, because profits are lower there. You answer by saying that you do not want to change that threshold at all. What exactly is your political point? You are suing that the Union des Classes Moyennes is not heard and not followed, but at the same time you state that you do not want to lower the threshold.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u14	Mr President, I am obviously totally wrong about what Mr Laaouej is saying. Moreover, after the hearing of the UCM, the minister's chief of staff reminded him of the dates of communication of all the information that the UCM did not respond to or did not respond to. I am sorry to say that the UCM has been consulted; it has even been consulted several times, in the same way as UNIZO. The UCM president even acknowledged the fact that what the related companies were asking for was well understood, i.e. a reduction of 90,000 to 70,000 euros. The Minister of Finance can give you the dates of communications between his firm and the UCM. So to say that there was no contact with the UCM is to lie!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u15	Mr Laaouej, I cannot accept that you claim that we have abandoned the SMEs with this reform. That goes against reality. You take one measure out of it and you insist on the measures relating to the ceiling on the remuneration of the manager. However, that is one measure in the package of corporate tax reforms. However, I do not hear you speak, although you know that, about a number of other measures included in the reform, all of which are aimed at making the reform just for SMEs in relation to large companies. We have always raised this issue of justice and one of the objectives of the reform. Firstly, there will be a large overall reduction in the rate for SMEs, also an objective of this reform. SMEs have also always asked for a lower rate and to reduce the complexity of corporate taxes by, among other things, reducing deductions and introducing exemptions. That's the deal in the corporate tax reform. Secondly, it has also been established for SMEs that an increased investment deduction is being pursued, also of great importance for SMEs, in order to provide the necessary space to invest. There are also additional incentives for research and development. You are also aware that enormous efforts are being made in this area in the current corporate tax reform, in order to give more oxygen to investment, research and development. The next point is also important. You claim that we have given up the SMEs. I suppose you also consider self-employed natural persons important in entrepreneurship. The reform includes a whole package of measures to promote self-employed natural persons in order to eliminate the difference between working under corporate taxation and working under self-employed natural persons and to increase oxygenation for those self-employed natural persons. All these elements, perhaps consciously, you will forget in your speech. However, these are all elements that make this reform truly SME-friendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u16	Mr Laaouej, concerning your remarks and those of Mr Piedboeuf, I can give you the dates that will show you that we have communicated in an exhaustive manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u17	Minister, can we receive a copy of your exchanges?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u18	We sent our messages on February 17, May 18, September 18, October 12 and 19. First point. Secondly, with regard to the cash for car (mobility) file, we cooperated correctly with the UCM. We certainly have not set up any barriers. On the contrary, as I have just said, several other files can prove to you that we have consulted him. Finally, but I will come back to this in more detail in my reply, nothing changes for companies with a taxable income of EUR 72 000 or less, and which are therefore affected by the words of the President of the UCM. If I count correctly, when we divide this number by two, it gives 36,000 euros. Here we go. That's why I don't understand his argument. It is normal for many small businesses, with a narrow profit margin, to be members of its organisation – and this applies to UNIZO as well. But, I repeat, nothing changes for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u19	Minister, could we receive your e-mail exchanges with the Union des Classes Moyennes? I'm talking about the content, not the calendar. Mr President, is it possible to copy them so that the members can see them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u20	Yeah, that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u21	I will react after Mr. Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u22	Mr Laaouej, I understand that Mr Vanden Burre wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u23	Mr President, I would like to react because this debate still occupied much of yesterday's afternoon. I am referring not only to the hearing of the UCM, which we had called for and finally obtained, but also to its possible inclusion in the discussion. Colleague Piedboeuf – you confirm it, minister – claims that the UCM has been incorporated into it. Really, so much the better! But why, at yesterday's meeting, did the UCM president say the opposite? I don't think his interest is to come to an audition – as he has long been asking, just like us – to make inconsistent statements, or even to tell lies. Mr Piedboeuf, you accused him yesterday of lying in committee. He did say, textually, that he had not been consulted. Mr. Laaouej refers to a message we received this morning from the UCM. I read: "We would have liked to have been contacted in advance of all this debate which is held in urgency and haste." You have to be correct and consistent. What really happened? What kind of meetings have taken place or not? Indeed, one of the main comments of yesterday and of completely unacceptable incomprehension is that the UCM was not involved in the discussions and debates, that they could not have their point of view. Everyone discovered yesterday afternoon in committee, during the debates on the figures, which is right, in which case, etc. But excuse us, we take everything backwards! And you're telling us today that there's no problem, that we've been seeing each other since February. Who are we laughing at? I'd like to understand something here, it's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u24	Minister, I would like to ask you a question. You're reporting electronic exchanges. Every day, even between opposition groups, the majority comes into being. That doesn't mean we're negotiating, we're negotiating. That means we're trading. So I have a simple question for you. As you know, the UCM is one of the social partners. Have you personally received the Union of Middle Classes in the case of corporate tax reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u25	I have not personally received any of the social partners. But my collaborators have seen them regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u26	All right. We have our answer. There was no consultation or discussion with UCM representatives! If you want emails that exchange between collaborators, I'm shoveled! That doesn't mean we're starting a negotiation or a consultation. It's not a concertation! When there is consultation, decision-makers meet. Among the decision-makers are the members of the government and the representatives of the management bodies, not the collaborators!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u27	We have done the same with all the social partners. They were sent the texts and the status of the file as they progressed. They reacted, except for the UCM. On the basis of these reactions, there was a consultation at my cabinet level with all the social partners. As I just said, Mr. Laaouej, in other cases, the UCM had reacted. I therefore do not explain why the UCM did not react within the framework of ISOC.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u28	I have another question for you. You introduced the corporate tax reform to the FEB. Would you mind reminding us when it was, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u29	Excusez-moi?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u30	When did you go to the FEB premises to present the corporate tax reform? When did this meeting take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u31	It was a few weeks ago. I don't remember the exact date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u32	It will be recalled that this was before the bill was tabled in Parliament. Could we know when you intend to present your corporate tax reform to the Middle Class Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u33	If they invite me, I'm still going today. I was invited by the FEB. The presentation I made there was that of the ISOC text which, at that time, had already been available on my firm's website for at least two weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u34	I don't disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u35	I have made it clear that the legislative process has yet to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u36	Are any other members still asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u37	Mr Laaouej, the debate we had yesterday was already curly, but I have to say that it is unfortunately not much better today. First of all, in all these relationships it takes two to tango. When a cabinet, especially in this type of important reform, makes its data available and makes itself vulnerable and calls for a response, pointing to certain trends and evolutions, I dare to assume that the great interest organisation you are referring to is doing its job properly. I do not think it is a question of looking at how the cabinet and the UCM have reacted. I have 100% confidence in the way in which the cabinet has made its data available. The essence, however, is what comes out of it. What is the substance of the criticism and does it continue today? I pointed out yesterday that we want to go to this rational debate. With great pleasure we will compare the figures. You know, like me, that somewhere we'll find a company that's a little less advanced. We will find them, I believe, but the essence is, of course, that a total economic profile has been established which will benefit 99% of companies and will benefit the entire economic fabric. That is the essence of what we are doing today. I get a very uncomfortable feeling, both yesterday and today, because we focus very strongly on some kind of conflict of interest or defence, based on one single statement from one figure. It may well say that he has the whole organization behind him, but if I see what the efforts are in the proposal for the benefit of all self-employed and small entrepreneurs, then I think that the substantive comments made yesterday are simply à côté de la plaque. They're just not right. So the essence of the story is not who said what, but whether or not it is true. Well, I'm telling you, it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have heard the Minister of Finance in committee say that the rate of corporate tax must be reduced, because multinationals want to invest in our country and are waiting for a sign. It is clear that this sign – the reduction in the corporate tax rate – was addressed to multinationals. Then I was going to say the same thing as Mr. Laaouej. He was faster than I was. I did not note that the Minister of Finance was invited to a luncheon discussion at the UCM. On the other hand, he participated in a lunch-discussion at the FEB. And the FEB was well heard. The initial corporate tax reform project did not provide for 100% RTD (revenues definitively taxed). The FEB said: "We want RTD to increase from 95 % to 100 %." And what did the minister do? It has increased RTD from 95 % to 100 %. The FEB was therefore perfectly heard. Capital gains on shares also rise to 100%, as the existing tax is removed. On the other hand, RTD conditions are introduced in order to be able to deduct capital gains on shares. Who's going to be hit? Who, in many cases, will no longer be able to deduct their capital gains on shares because they do not meet the RTD conditions? SMEs! It is clear that this project is tailor-made for large companies. To sell the goods, it was said that SMEs would benefit from it. I will demonstrate earlier in my presentation that SMEs are not the winners of this reform. This reform has been tailor-made for large companies. The FEB thanks you, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u39	Mrs Smaers, you mentioned the investment deduction. When does it end? That's a question I'm asking you. You said there are good measurements. The investment deduction is a very good measure. It already existed. It's been increased. But until when, Mrs. Smaers? When does the largest investment deduction start and when does it end?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u40	This doesn't happen immediately. Some measures will not enter into force until 2020 and will have an effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u41	No, that's not my question. When does it end?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u43	Here you go, Mr. Van Biesen answers for you. You refer to the increase in the investment deduction, except that it ends in 2020. Bravo! Your vous remerce, Madame Smaers. Mr Bogaert, what is the rate of the penalty for insufficiency of pay?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u44	It is not a quiz, Mr Laaouej!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u45	Yes, it's a quiz. It's exactly a quiz, Mr Bogaert! You question me, you ask me specific questions, to which I answer you. Are you able to answer me? You can't answer me! What does that mean? That once again, Mr Bogaert – and I am targeting you in particular – you do not participate in the work, you come once in a while and you distribute good points by telling anything. Even MM. Van Biesen and Van de Velde did not tell me that we had asked for the reduction of the 36,000 euros No one ever asked. And, as far as you're concerned, you're coming up with some crazy ideas and questions, which is why I'm allowing myself to tease you a little bit. When you want to give lessons, Mr. Bogaert, you have to be able to do it. This is not given to everyone. Yet this is not the first time you have done so. I still want to tell you! Mr Pieboeuf, you say that the UCM is lying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u46	No, it's you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u47	No, I'm telling you what the UCM is saying. Indeed, many of us heard the UCM President's statement that the UCM had not been coordinated. You say the UCM is lying. Bravo! Not only do you not see her, but you also call her a liar. With you, it's the double penalty. You exclude the middle classes from the reduced rate and impose an additional tax penalty. Not only do you not consult them, but you also call them a liar. In other words, with you, it's always a double sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u48	Mr Laaouej, if I may, I shall give the floor to Mr Bogaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u49	Mr President, I'm not finished answering everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u50	In that case, I invite you to continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u51	Mr Minister, in my opinion, when we do a 5 billion euro corporate tax reform that will impact several hundred thousand companies, when we know how sensitive this subject is to SMEs, we take the time to call people to let them know that we want to work and discuss with them how to do this. It is not the great law firms or the tax experts of your firm or your administration, for whom I have respect, who will tell you what is appropriate or not from an economic point of view, it is the economic and social actors. In my opinion, you should even have consulted the organisations representing the staff. Indeed, if companies bring capital, it is also the case of workers, who also have the right to know within which legal, social and fiscal framework their company will evolve. As Minister of Finance, you should have consulted with everyone. For the rest, you're compiling an inventory of electronic exchanges. I asked the Union of Middle Classes to check this morning. Two of their e-mails, once the decision on the draft was formally taken, remained unanswered, while they contained a request for a hearing on the last chance. I ask you to check with your services, but we will also produce UCM exchanges with the members of your firm. They show that there has been no consultation and discussion on their last request, which concerns only two or three measures, but these are very important to them. We cannot, on the other hand, sweep them away on the pretext that they are only a few thousand euros. I'll come back if I'm allowed to elaborate on what I'm saying. For a very small company, a few thousand euros count. SMEs are not multinationals. They are people who have difficulty getting out of it, who are dependent on order books that do not follow, late suppliers, a bank that refuses them a credit card and sometimes a difficult environment. Small subcontractors must also be considered. For the rest, I had committed myself to you, Mr Van de Velde: we will not begin to look at things in the gallery, column by column. That would be surreal. I asked for a simple thing. What you did during the adversarial debate is respectable. The UCM has provided figures. You brought more. That is the reason for our Parliament and our democratic debate: the contradictory aspect. This is true in one parliamentary institution, and in others, such as the judicial institution. The adversarial debate must be able to take place in good conditions, not between two doors. Not at a late meeting, after a plenary session, at which we do not have time to go into the matter. The adversarial debate takes time. Certainly, not many weeks, but time. We have not had this adversarial debate. You'll tell me it could have happened next week. For various and varied reasons that I will not come back to, it was considered necessary, in order to avoid any difficulty, to shorten things a little. However, we could have voted next week. From the moment we asked for the hearing, in this interval – remember, Mr Van de Velde: I asked for it at the first reading. You are witness to this – the majority opposed a niet. No, the hearing of the middle classes is not necessary! We only got it yesterday or the day before yesterday. What does that mean? That you did not understand how important it was to organise the adversarial debate with the Union of the Middle Classes! It could also take place with UNIZO and even with FEB. I can hold an adversarial debate with the FEB. But you refused that. This is a methodological problem that we are treating you with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u52	I will not go into the ad hominem arguments. They're usually a sign of weakness. I remember that, in a previous discussion, the argument suddenly fell that someone was wearing a costume and a tie. That was the most important input at the time. I note that you are wearing a tie and a costume yourself today, but let us have a political debate. Isn't that right, Mr Gilkinet? I challenge you, Mr Laaouej...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u53	Colleagues, perhaps we can just limit the debate to what it is about, in particular corporate tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u54	Exactly. That is my point, Mr President. Let's discuss politics. I challenge the PS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u55	You got off to a good start!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u56	We'll discuss politics. I know you've had a conference. You yourself may have thought it was a little too left-wing and too revolutionary, and that is why you want to draw the map of the pmes and the SMEs here today. I dare you. Put in an amendment. Follow the UCM, which you've been so passionately defending for half an hour. Submit an amendment to reduce the EUR 36 000 we are discussing to, for example, EUR 24 000. You wouldn't dare! I do not think it is that amendment that you will be tabling. The proof of the pudding is in the eating . If you want to move from 36 000 to 24 000, please submit the amendment. We will then see who is politically on which side.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u57	Mr President, I would like to reply to my colleague, Ahmed Laaouej. I didn't say the UCM was lying. I said that to say that we did not coordinate the UCM – these are your words – is to lie. In fact, at the end of the hearing, when the minister's chief of staff went to see Mr. Nyst to tell him what the dates of communication of the information were, he said without microphone: "that I cannot deny it". He acknowledged that he had indeed been contacted. And I add that, on November 15, 2017, a little over a month ago, I participated in a one-day seminar organized by the Belgian Fiscal Letter, which you know. The seminar was co-organized by the UCM and aimed to present the entire corporate tax reform project. There was therefore a perfect knowledge of this reform, already at least two months before. There were exchanges but no reaction. It's still weird! Like most of us, I received reactions from the UCM, about ten days ago. On the one hand, I do not understand that we have not received one before. On the other hand, in committee, the president of the UCM thanked us for having taken into account the remark on related companies. If she thanked the politicians for taking something into consideration, it meant that the UCM had been heard on that point. Maybe she wasn't on everything. I said it myself. It is true that we do not like all the measures, but they are part of a global balance. That's right! The three remarks of the UCM, which was also present on 15 November 2017 during the presentation of the Fiscal Letter, are part of a coherent set that takes into account the financial and budgetary reality of our country. You can't slam fingers and say you have to do this or that. No, we must first honour our international commitments, take into account the state of our budget and make a major reform. And, in fact, lowering the rate to 20% is a major reform. It's a first step. The others will be done next. I regret to have to tell you that there has been a dialogue which, unfortunately, has been one-sided. Reactions occurred only a few days ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u58	Mr Laaouej, you are trying to provoke us to comment on the timing of the entry into force of a number of measures. What was said earlier is true, a number of measures are intended to be introduced gradually. It is, of course, also a reform of corporate taxation in the medium and long term. We can't do everything in a year. I think it is quite a punishment, on the one hand, for you to blame us for not going fast enough with the tax reduction and the increase in investment deductions, while at the other hand you are criticising and saying that the reform of corporation tax must be budget-neutral. Of course, it's two things one. The budget neutrality is also important to us. I assume this is less the case for the PS. For us, budget neutrality is of great importance in terms of the prosperity of citizens and businesses. This was also one of the starting points of the corporate tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u59	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Piedboeuf that, of course, we can be distracted by talking about e-mail exchanges, seminars, discussions, etc. There is one question that I clearly asked yesterday to the President of the UCM at his hearing: were you received by the finance firm? He said "no." How can we imagine a concertation worthy of this name without having a capacity to listen, to dialogue and thus to meet? There was no meeting. So there was no consultation! On the other hand, Mr. Piedboeuf, you say that the UCM is satisfied with the decision that was finally made by the government regarding the related companies. Yes, but why was this decision made? Because it was a UNIZO claim. The difference between the government's attitude to this demand and the UCM's claim to the minimum income of managers is that, in one case, it benefits UNIZO, in the other case, it is a demand from Walloon companies. And that's the problem! It is that in the decisions of the government, you have not taken into account the specificity of Walloon SMEs. In conclusion, Mr President, I really regret that the so-called "reformist" movement can lead such an important reform in this way, turning its back on objective allies and beneficiaries of this reform who were actually calling for their own characteristics to be taken into account. Instead, you swept them away with a back of your hand!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u60	Mr President, the problem of this government – it became very clear yesterday – is that its conception of social consultation is a bit "still a problem, you're interested in me!" It is the minimum service before the hour, in terms of consultation, and the conduct of the majority, including Mr Piedboeuf, with regard to the UCM was unacceptable yesterday! So yes, Mrs Smaers, the ambition of this tax reform, which we have called for in order to facilitate entrepreneurship in our country, must be fiscal neutrality. You're far from it! I will come back to that earlier and other colleagues too, I suppose. But as far as SMEs themselves are concerned, it is not up to them to pay tax reductions for the benefit of SMEs. That is what is happening in your reform. All the more so since it is not just any SME that you are calling for to pay: it is those that start, those that are in difficulty, those that are not in a position to grant their managers a level of pay beyond 45 000 euros. If you wanted this budgetary neutrality, some measures were to be avoided. You increase the deductibility of permanently taxed income from 95 to 100%. Please quote me an SME that will benefit from this measure, which will cost tens of millions of euros! You are transposing the European directive against tax evasion. Please quote me a tax evasion SME! You have, in this text, taken new measures for the benefit of actors who do not need them - because achieving already very important benefits and which will transform them into dividends rather than jobs - and you penalise the smallest players. But what a missed opportunity, in your head, and I will come back to it later!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u61	I propose that the interruptions be limited to one to return to the speaker in the rostrum. In addition, as agreed in other debates, there are no more than two minutes' interruptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u62	Mr Bogaert had asked me that if we were to support SMEs, we only had to table an amendment. We tabled it in committee but it was rejected by the majority. Our amendment was intended to meet the demand for minimum remuneration. [[Brouhahaha]] Mr Bogaert, you told me to table an amendment if we supported SMEs. We have tabled an amendment in the Finance Committee on the remuneration of leaders. You weren't there. I can understand you didn't know, but I'll let you know. It was rejected by the majority as well as by your party as well. I will table it again today in plenary. Mr Piedboeuf, without epilogue, consultation is to receive people, to open a discussion, to open a timetable. Consultation is not limited to electronic exchanges between collaborators. The minister was supposed to sit at the table with them from the moment, as early as October, they considered it to be a trompe l'oeil reform for SMEs. I'm sorry, Mr. Piedboeuf, the MR has abandoned Brussels and Walloon SMEs. Mevrouw Smaers, yes, there are compensatory measures, and that is the problem. I say to the analysis that this reform is not SME-oriented: yes, there is a reduction in the rate, but in exchange for what? In addition, there are measures penalising SMEs. You'll see just now that I've drawn up a rather eloquent list of them. I think I have responded to the various comments, and I will now be able to talk to you about the reform of corporate tax. I explained that because of the general context, you had forgotten the consultations, that the Council of State unfortunately had to work under impossible conditions, and then Parliament, which you did not respect. The opposition has shown you that, when you seek force, it has a number of rights, derived from the Rules of the House. I therefore invite you to reflect, for the next few months, on enabling Parliament to work in good conditions. We have shown that we do not want to block for the pleasure of blocking. The proof is that we are here today to debate, which will not prevent me from voting against corporate tax reform. At the same time, what is particularly inconvenient and makes it impossible for Parliament to work will never have the support of my group or other opposition groups: to work sloppyly, in spite of common sense, by sitting down on the fundamental principles, neglecting the remarks of the Council of State and avoiding any form of consultation with the sectors concerned. I hope you remember the lesson. We have a problem of divergence on the general approach to this corporate tax reform. You consider the Grail to be a linear reduction in tax rates. You repeated that, minister, in reply: the government's goal is to create a climate. You do climatology, "fiscal weather." With this climate, in your opinion, there will naturally be economic dynamism. We have mentioned the fact that there are a number of studies, particularly in the English and American literature, which show that there is no direct link between reductions in corporate tax rates and economic dynamism. Economic dynamism is fundamentally linked, in a decisive way, to a number of other parameters: the quality of the economic fabric, the international environment, legal security, social peace, but also investment in research and development, training and the quality of workers, in terms of their training and qualification. In short, all these parameters contradict "fiscalocentrism", which consists of believing that fiscal policy alone can solve the issues of economic recovery. However, we are far from the point, as the most serious studies show. This does not, of course, mean that there is no need to think about tax reform. Rates are one of these – but one among many. We have proposed that you think differently and continue to develop an incentive tax policy – this criterion being one of the four main functions of tax policy – to link tax cuts to specific economic choices: investment, job creation, research and development. In other words, all these endogenous parameters contribute to an improvement of the economic fabric with the support of the public authorities. Moreover, this is what you do in several sectors through the famous wage subsidies. This has even motivated other policies. However, in the field of taxation, you say that you are going to reduce the rates and thus the machine will be relaunched. We have proposed that you be much more subtle and develop a differentiated approach. Your corporate tax reform, as has been said, lowers rates – 5 billion euros – and provides for budgetary compensation through the removal of various deductions, exemptions, etc. The problem is that, in this way, you also delete sensible provisions. I am thinking, for example, of the extra staff exemption. This measure applies to FTEs and provides for a tax reduction in the event of a commitment. The TPEs, with whom we had the opportunity to discuss, explained to us that this provision was right for them. Moreover, it has some meaning at a relatively marginal budgetary cost. Well, you decided to repeal it. Similarly, the investment deduction was the subject of a trompe l'oeil, since you updated it before deleting it. However, it also stems from an approach which aims to link the tax deduction to a concrete act: productive investment, which itself generates value and provides jobs. You have also decided not to take this into account. We also invited you to pursue research and development. Unfortunately, once again, you have retreated. You have transposed Nexus, which consists of a renewal of the taxation of patent revenues. But, you have to go much further, put the package in order precisely to allow our companies to increase their added value and gain, Mr Bogaert, export shares. Indeed, it is through the quality of our products that we will help companies in this respect. It is also through the excellent training of staff in companies, to put it in a dynamic of research and development, that we will be able to create future jobs. Beyond jobs directly related to research and development, there are all indirect jobs. Look, for example, in the pharmaceutical sector or in a whole range of other sectors! The key is here! Let's support research and development. You have levers to do it, minister. Unfortunately, you will remain from this point of view still timid and that is a shame. There is, of course, the field of budgetary neutrality. This is a particularly important land. As we know, the National Bank keeps repeating, you have made the choice not to finance the tax shift in its entirety. This, moreover, distorts the National Bank's forecasts. The non-financing of the tax shift artificially inflates the National Bank's forecasts. She says in a note from August 2017: "From the moment that there is still 4.7 billion euros in funding of the tax shift, I am not able to tell you that my analyses are not biased." She says, "My analyses are biased." Basically, the budget bubble artificially inflates the National Bank's forecasts on the labour market, disposable income, whatever you want. We are also being attacked by the European Commission, which says: "You are missing 2 billion in the budget". The opposition tells you that: "To these 2 billion, we must add certain measures, whose estimates of budgetary performance are not sufficiently substantiated, for more than 1 billion euros". While you are aware that you are missing €3 billion, you are committed to a 5 billion corporate tax reform. You tell us, "No problem, it's funded." Let's look at the funding! For notional interests, you expect, at cruising speed, €2.3 billion. You are taking a bet, certainly based on forecasts, but a bet, with the fact that in three years, the rate of borrowing at 10 years will rise. If I'm talking about the 10-year loan rate, it's the rate on which the notional interest rate is backed. So you tell us: "I know what the European Central Bank is going to do". And to the question you are asked, you answer: "It is not unreasonable to think that the rates will rise." What a risky bet! If the stake in this bet was for a few tens of millions of euros, or even 100 million euros, on a 5 billion wheel, we would say that you will find a new measure. For example, an increase of 75 million in the soda tax to fill the gap. You've used us to that since the beginning of the legislature. In terms of creativity for household taxation or for social security savings, you are not sluggish. For that, we can trust you. But out of 2.3 billion euros, if you get caught, even if only half – a billion – where are you going to get it? We know that. In the social security budget that became your cash drawer. That's when once again, you're going to get the money you miss. Basically, if we have to retain something from your policy, it is about making unfunded reforms and then we find ourselves in a budgetary conclave with the fact that there are billions missing. "What are we going to do? I've even heard people, not you, considering a meat tax. I imagine there are also people in your party to say that you have to do it! In short, taxes on people, public services and social security. The problem is there. And that's why we don't want to join your corporate tax reform project, which is based on bets, speculation, prophecy. When you manage public accounts, you don't have the right to be so unsightly and unwise. We know what is likely to wait for our fellow citizens if you do not finally find your funding. If it turns out, in the analysis of the results, that you're missing a few billion, we know where you'll be looking for them. That is why we do not trust your budget figures. The facts make me right. On ATAD, you're expecting $1.2 billion. I really call on all observers to go back to Mr Vanvelthoven's speech on the question of ATAD, that is to say, the directive which aims to limit the tax erosion of taxable bases, in particular the phenomena of tax evasion. You're waiting for $1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u63	Mr Laaouej, I give the floor to Mr. Van de Velde.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u64	Mr Laaouej, allow me to comment on the financial situation you are referring to. You are assuming that we will not make it at budgetary level. I have a few comments to make. Firstly, the National Bank has done its homework very thoroughly and has shown that there is absolutely no difference between the assumptions of the government and those of the National Bank. This means that the current corporate tax reform will be budget neutral. Moreover, the hearings in which you were present showed the following in relation to the ratio of corporation tax to gross national product, and I had that history explicitly included. The reduction in corporation tax in 2002 under the purple government, which was accompanied by so-called payback effects, which were probably; I dare not say it out loud, partly built on loose sand, was fully recovered in a year and a half. The dips in corporation tax are indeed purely cyclical, i.e. very little technical or structural in nature. Finally, I do not think it is unimportant to mention that the history of the government is also right. A first tax shift was introduced, resulting in all kinds of economic effects. Now we see that our revenues are simply rising, despite the fact that our tax burden has fallen from 52.7 % in 2013 to 50.1 % today. You do not like to hear this, but it is true: despite the falling tax burden, our revenues have increased, even faster than expected. You're saying we found a pot of money in social security. However, I dare to say that we are still exceeding the limits of the permissible expenditure. So we certainly need to look again at expenditure in the future, but certainly not at revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u65	Mr President, I would just like to point out to my colleague Van de Velde that with regard to the so-called budgetary neutrality of corporate tax reform, his own party president has said that corporate tax reform is aimed at reducing taxes. It even made the front page of the Trends. In my view, if there is a tax reduction, by definition there is no budgetary neutrality. In doing so, I believe that Mr. Van de Velde must respect a little more the remarks made by his party president.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u66	Mr President, in order to avoid any ambiguity, I simply wish to be able to reply to Mr. Van de Velde, otherwise I'll still occupy the gallery for an hour. However, I imagine that no one wants the speakers to go on for a while. Mr Van de Velde, I am not going to reopen the debate on the development of disposable income. I mentioned this during our budget work. For the 2.7% planned for 2019, according to the National Bank, this percentage should already be subtracted from 1.1% due to a series of government decisions on taxation, consumption, due to cuts in certain health care. In short, there has been a deterioration of 1.1% which annihilates the increase in disposable income. With regard to good results, etc., I refer you to the statements of the Director of the National Bank, Mrs De Wachter, according to which only a few thousand jobs - there is no question of tens or a few hundred jobs - can find an identifiable cause in the tax shift. In a particularly difficult budgetary context, one cannot afford to base a budget pattern on medium- or long-term forecasts. This is not serious! This is, in any case, not what we did in 2002, for example. In that year, the corporate tax rate was reduced with compensatory measures and margins. It had been suggested that attention should be paid and that it might be prudent to provide for compensatory measures in excess of the cost of reducing the rate. Finally, the facts gave us reason. We were pretty much at balance, maybe even a little above it. Here, with only two measures, you finance three-quarters of your corporate tax reform. That's not right! This is the transposition of a directive. But the Court of Auditors and the National Bank together say that you will only reach 1.2 billion if you transpose perfectly, totally and ambitiously, by choosing the widest and best options, the famous directive. We're a long way from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u67	You say that the National Bank has made the study and the compensatory measures are linked to the notional interest of EUR 2 billion, and to ATAD for EUR 1.3 billion. You say that we are making a very optimistic hypothesis with regard to the theoretical-intelligence foot. The National Bank says: "As far as the interest hypothesis for determining the rate of the notional interest deduction is concerned, the medium-term prospects of the Federal Planning Office of June 2017 were worked out, which is highly justifiable. On the other hand, the assumption of a 2% interest rate at cruising speed can clearly be regarded as cautious." This is also explained by the Governor of the National Bank in the context of the objectives of the European Central Bank, which wanted inflation to be kept at a minimum of 2%. With regard to the ATAD Directive, it is not about the directive as such but about its application. The Minister also talked about this. The National Bank says: "It is also expected that the application of the ATAD Directive will lead to a significant increase in revenue. The estimates used in this respect are in line with the European Commission's estimates of potential additional revenue in the European Union, if there were no more profit shifts, which requires that the ATAD Directive is indeed rigorously transposed into the tax legislation of all Member States." You are right, but the Minister has also said a few times that he will use the most strict interpretation in this transposition, which is also stated in the texts. You're right to doubt it. I have also read a number of articles on this in the press. I also had big questions about the funding. You know that too, Mr Laaouej. It is about financing the whole reform. In relation to the hypothesis of the notional interest and the ATAD Directive, the National Bank says that there are a number of guarantees, although uncertainty in these cases is always an element.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u68	Mr President of the Finance Committee, we can have respect for the work and analysis of the National Bank and nevertheless be critical, which we are. We found this analysis particularly complacent with regard to the government for various elements, including the two elements you have just mentioned: the approximation of the future cost of notional interest, which finances 50% of the cost of this reform of EUR 5 billion – with a hypothetical future tax expenditure, we finance a real cost – and on the transposition of the ATAD directive against tax evasion. On this second element, I would like to develop my reasoning quickly. I did it in committee and I'm going to do it again because I feel like you didn't listen. Europe proposes two ways for states to transpose this directive: a minimalist path and an ambitious one. Almost all European countries have chosen the ambitious path. Belgium has chosen the minimalist path, with a reversal of the burden of proof, i.e. it is the tax services of the Belgian State which must prove that there has been a desire in the head of the companies concerned for tax evasion, for non-payment of tax where they have made profits. It is often the pot of earth against the iron port, you will admit. Why not choose the full version, with a requirement for the companies concerned to justify their choices? There, there would be a real capacity of our services to ensure that they actually pay the tax due. There is a trick to transpose a minima and to consider the revenue to the maximum. This is one of the extraordinary weaknesses of your text, especially since, according to your budget tables, the transposition of this directive – which is in any case mandatory – will bring about a fifth of the cost of transposition. Many very serious analyses show that the way you do it will allow tax evasion over and over again. There is hypocrisy about this element.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u69	Mr Van Rompuy, the National Bank also told us that it had worked on a static model from the Finance FPS. It is not a reproach, but it is not for the FPS Finances to make major macroeconomic projections. There is also a problem with the way in which you bring this corporate tax reform project to us. Would it not have been useful to put in place a macroeconomic simulation model worthy of this name that would allow us to measure the effects of your reform on the budgetary aspects and on the redistribution aspects within the economic fabric between small and large enterprises, between the different sectors of activity? You didn't. Would it not have been necessary for a simulator to integrate, on the basis of analyses and parameters, changes in the behaviour of economic actors, i.e. to measure the sensitivity of economic actors between tax increases, tax reductions and certain types of investment? German studies, for example, show that there is a very special sensitivity for intangible assets, even from a 1% reduction or increase in taxes. You can have intangible asset relocations, in other words, anything that produces high added value in research and development. The National Bank is not talking about this. Could you not have given the National Bank or the Planning Office the means to put together an evaluation model? You didn't. Why? Because you didn't spontaneously ask for the advice of the National Bank. You asked because at some point, the opposition put the problem on the table. It must be remembered and I can find you all the traces of our debates. Basically, what concerns the National Bank is true for your entire methodology. You're moving on until someone says, "Be careful! You should think about this or that." You have therefore made it impossible for the National Bank, for lack of time and resources, to carry out all its estimates. She's talking about plausible assumptions. Even though they would be plausible, they are still hypotheses. On a $5 billion steering wheel, it is not satisfactory to work only on assumptions. Moreover, as I said earlier, there is no consideration of the change in economic actors. I mentioned a case on intangible assets. I can read what the Court of Auditors also said on page 25 of its report. She says, "Be careful, your budget estimates are based on 2014 figures." We're almost in 2018! So you're already four years late. When we know how the corporate tax base works – it is particularly linked to the economic situation and dependent on the international environment (economic, fiscal, legal or even geopolitical, because an increase in raw materials has a direct impact on the decline) – you do not take sufficient account of these parameters which would have led you to present us with a more serious and a little less sloppy work. I pointed at the National Bank, but she didn't answer. It makes international comparisons between Belgium, where corporate tax is equivalent to a certain percentage of GDP, and Germany, where it is more. Except that in Germany there are many companies which are not subject to corporate tax but subject to personal tax. Comparisons are therefore biased. For all these reasons, the opinion of the National Bank will be taken for what it is: a formulation of assumptions. It tells you, however, implicitly to pay attention. Beyond the National Bank, whose business is neither taxation nor even budgetary control, there are other opinions such as that of the Court of Auditors, for example, which tells you to pay attention to your corporate tax reform and which points out, in particular, that on ATAD, the 1.2 billion you expect will only be verified if you optimally transpose all the measures in the directive, which is far from the case. Some will return. As far as legal certainty is concerned, the opinions of the Council of State tell you that there are explicit spaces for redress – some of the players you have neglected, such as the UCM, will benefit – and then there is Europe. I asked you, Minister, whether, prior to the adoption by the government, you had notified some of the measures related to European law to the European Commission to ensure that there were no difficulties? We mentioned the case of RTD (deductible dividends) linked to your new deduction basket. You told us that you had exchanged with the European Commission and that you had not received a negative signal. Once again, electronic exchanges with certain members of your cabinet and with the European Commission will not exempt you from a reaction from the European Commission if it considers ex post that in the implementation of your reform and in some cases some European directives are not respected. I am thinking in particular of the parent-subsidiary directive, just to take this example. Here too, caution would have been necessary. Another point we are deeply concerned about. We believe that it can be the cause of a bottomless budget hole. This is tax consolidation. These are again only assumptions and forecasts, which suggest that you have perfect control over the financial statements of all the companies that fall within the scope of tax consolidation. You indicate a cost of 500 million euros. Is there anyone serious enough to consider that this figure can be taken for cash, if I can afford that expression? No one is aware of the financial statements of all corporations within the scope of the tax consolidation. On the other hand, fiscal consolidation, which is a great demand, not for SMEs, but for the FEB, is a new toy in the hands of tax advisers of all kinds, and in particular those who operate in major international groups. You give them a new tax steering wheel to plan the status of their taxable base. These groups will be able to make sure to pay less taxes this year, by locating optimally, here the profits, here the losses. You've created a new tax engineering space. Tax consolidation calls for a second remark.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u70	Mr. Van de Velde asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u71	Mr Laaouej, I find it extremely strange that you make it appear that the FEB, which this government is trying to do, is a dirty thing. On the contrary, it seems to me. I believe that the government is making efforts for the whole economic field. This government also provides for a company law that is transparent and at the same time weighs all actors in a normal way against each other. It is also making a very important effort for the smaller entrepreneurs. In addition, I would like to remind you of the following. You took the word hypocrisy in your mouth. I'm doing the same thing now, even though I wouldn't if you hadn't. The hypocrisy of your obedience is that you have been the inventor of excess profit rulings. You wanted to break through the hypocrisy of the high rates by giving the big companies a kind of escape clause. Mr Laaouej, you are talking about hypocrisy, but I think this is a sign of very serious hypocrisy. This government is not part of that. Here, a full field of company tariffs is constructed in a logical way. That's much more neat than anything that's ever happened in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u72	I don't feel like I called you a hypocrite, Mr. Van de Velde. On the contrary, I find that you express yourself with great sincerity, that you always clearly display your opinions and even the interests that you defend. It is not a reproach, but you have the merit of frankness. Beyond that, you're talking to me about a number of measures, and I'm going to talk to you about another: fairness tax, minimum tax. What did you do with it? Why didn't you keep it? You're telling me the trash will have the same effect. We're not sure. A number of calculations have been made to show that, here too, it is a new driving force for tax engineering and, from now on, tax experts are at work to be able to make optimal use of it. You have created new tricks, which already allow tax advisors to see how best they will adapt to pay as little tax as possible. You have presented this corporate tax reform in this way: we will lower rates and in exchange we will remove tax niches and tax deductions. Except you've created a series of measures that will allow you to re-engineer. In addition, with regard to fiscal consolidation, I was told by a staff member of the National Bank that there was no risk. Yet, that is my reasoning. The transposition of the ATAD Directive, which contains some elements of the so-called BEPS measures, makes it possible to reduce the taxable base in Belgium according to the principle that it is necessary to tax where wealth is produced. We don't think you're going far enough, but we'll come back later. With tax consolidation, you bring the tax base back to Belgium and, therefore, the basis you have transferred will certainly produce a loss of accounting or tax nature elsewhere. Well, by consolidation, you're going to be able to re-impose these losses on the taxable basis you brought back to Belgium. Anyway, it's a white operation. In other words, what you earn on one side, you make it lose on the other with tax consolidation. That's my prognosis. I admit it's just a prognosis. That is why I urge you, on your entire corporate tax reform, to set up a monitoring: five billion euros, that deserves monitoring! Mr Minister, it is up to you, together with your budget colleagues, with other members of the government and administrations, the Supreme Council of Finance, the tax administration, perhaps the Court of Auditors, to set up a monitoring of the assessment of the positive and negative budgetary implications of your corporate tax reform. This would allow us to see what is happening every year. And every year – I make an appointment with you – we do the point again. It seems to me to be a way of making good policy. Can you make this commitment to Parliament today? Minister, this is an explicit and specific question. There would still be a lot to be said about, among other things, provisions for risks and charges and their fiscalization in principle. That is something I do not understand at all! This is an accounting reality, which means that in the face of certain expenses which cannot yet be estimated, companies, and in particular SMEs, are organizing themselves to deal with them: "not this year but next year" and provisions are built from year to year, and then once the charge has arrived, we have provided, we have kept internal financing, we use it. And at that time, indeed, the charge is incurred. And now you're taxing right now. Incomprehensible! Again, it is an anti-SME measure! That's it, ladies and gentlemen. I won't be any longer. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u73	I thought maybe I'd read the report of the National Bank again! Colleagues, you are driving the country into a new fiscal adventure – one more – even though you have created the conditions of fiscal insecurity! We're talking about five billion, you're telling us it's funded, we don't believe it! We consider that you have not put in place everything that is necessary in terms of consultation with the actors concerned. We have had to wait for the request of the PS group, supported by the other opposition parties, to obtain the hearing of the Union of the Middle Classes under the conditions we know where, rather than being heard and respected, the speakers were insulted. I repeat, this is unacceptable! You have also not allowed Parliament to work under the best possible conditions. All right! We worked day and night to be able to analyse the various elements properly. I want to thank all colleagues, both the majority and the opposition – I mean that Members of Parliament are not responsible, even those of the majority, for the government's improvised work! But of course we have more freedoms to tell him than you do – and I am convinced that I am speaking here for many of you. We consider that we lack estimates of the macroeconomic effects of this corporate tax reform sector by sector in order to see who wins and who loses. When such a reform is undertaken, we must be able to learn about it. We also believe that you have decided to break with the incentive of taxation, which allows it to function as an instrument of precision in helping certain economic behaviors. Whether it is productive investment or job creation, you are developing a new approach. Furthermore, in our view, you are insufficiently ambitious in transposing European directives to counter the erosion of tax bases. In short, for all these reasons, we cannot support your corporate tax reform project. It was not undertaken in a manner that would help us measure the relevance of your choices. That is why we will vote against your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to be here today in this Christmas atmosphere. I would like to thank all the colleagues, both from the opposition and from the majority, who have made this possible. After all, let us not forget that an important part of the work had to be done effectively in Parliament. Despite the hard work done by the government to prepare all the documents, which were certainly there in good time, it has come to a fight in Parliament. I don't mind either. From the outset, I have indicated that such an important change in our legislation requires a thorough debate. Ladies and gentlemen, although I do not take the floor easily, what we are doing here today is historic. The change in corporate tax that this government is implementing, the way we simplify at the same time and make ourselves more competitive, is unseen. If we take a look at what this government has achieved in a few years, I must say that this is already an important step forward. This government has brought far more than it could have promised itself. I am thinking not only of the tax shift I and the tax shift II that we are going to approve today, but also of the reform of justice. Furthermore, this government has carried out incredibly severe reforms in the area of employment and pensions. Mr Laaouej, it is true that such an agreement strikes a delicate balance here and there. This leads to discussions in which everyone tries to defend themselves in the best possible way. At least what we are experiencing here today is a victory for Parliament. Let all the acid spawns of the past few weeks and months do, this Parliament has debated very thoroughly and in depth about very important innovations and reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to remind you of the context. I want to start with a black period, 2008-2013, marked by a deep financial and economic crisis that could have been the perfect catalyst for necessary reforms. However, that did not happen. The government at the time chose to tax more heavily. While Di Rupo didn't know his classics, never washed a good crisis, this government knows them. The government is fully concerned with the story of the cricket and the ant, because when things go well, they also need to be repaired. Then one must think and reform. That is what we are doing today. The taxshift 1, including the courageous index jump that was made then, resulted in phenomenal results. Purchasing power has increased. Moreover, once all the measures in the tax shift have been fully implemented, we will increase the net salary of the lowest wages by EUR 170 per month. I know that this is a very difficult situation for the left-wing opposition. That is an unlikely step forward that we have taken for the lowest wages in this country. All indicators were deep red in the period 2012-2013. A number of fellow Members will be pleased to hear that all these indicators are bright green today. Growth is not expected to be high, the balance of payments shows spectacular export growth, growth in investment which will be slightly higher next year if possible than this year and above all a tax reduction of 52.7% in 2013 to currently 50.1%. This country is economically in blazing health. However, let us not forget that there are also a number of alarm signals, for example on the international field. International competition is tough. The shift to e-commerce will also have an impact on what we are experiencing in corporate tax in the coming years. We must be prepared for the shift to consumption, which will have to be made. This reform provides a perfect response to this. During the various debates I heard a number of colleagues talking about the race to the bottom. Now, this race to the bottom, ladies and gentlemen, is not a wish of governments. The race to the bottom in the field of company tariffs is an exogenously driven process that is to be watched over as a government. This is due to the fact that a number of countries are organising themselves today. In view of the Brexit, the United Kingdom is reducing its company rates very dramatically and strongly. The United States is currently looking for all possible exceptions in different countries, such as the notional interest deduction in our country, because they want to arm themselves more competitively and to ensure that capital and investment at local level take place in their region. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform provides answers to international issues such as the theoretical deduction. I am convinced that the new form of notional income deduction in which we will work on the basis of capital growth is much more correct than the present form. At the same time, this reform also makes our companies more competitive internationally. Let us not forget that we are an export-driven, small economy that depends on what is happening outside us. If we do not make ourselves more interesting as a location today, we will simply be overlooked. In this respect, this transparent and stable taxation is a major step forward. She was much needed, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the budgetary element. We've already talked about this. So I can skip that point pretty quickly. I am pleased that Mr Van Rompuy has explained in a very erudite way that according to the National Bank of Belgium, the government has based its change in corporate taxes on a very conservative model. The financing of the tax shift as an example has never been and proved problematic. In this respect, we must also stress that the current government has not incorporated any payback effects into its model, which has happened several times in the past. In fact, I believe that the largest measure introduced in 2002 at the time of the previous reduction in company taxation was flagged back by the Constitutional Court after two years. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also had a very interesting debate on who is winning and who is paying. That debate was mainly a search for a political weapon. Everyone here in the Chamber is convinced that the change in corporate taxes was necessary. As a highlight, there was the gloomy display at the hearing we held yesterday with UCM. She was gloomy, not because people say business or because an interest organization would defend its interests. She was particularly saddened by the misunderstandings and the lack of substantive debate, which in my view was unjustified. Colleagues, the increase in the 36 000 rule is not new. UCM is allowed to defend its members on a pro-domo basis. However, we do not believe that it is socially beneficial that only for tax reasons self-employed activities carried on as sole proprietorship should be carried out. In this respect, Mr Laaouej, I find your discourse quite surprising, because you are actually in favour of the joint venture. In fact, you say that we need to maintain today's situation, in which people have opted for a company form for tax reasons. You are incredibly flexible about this in your reasoning. Apparently, socialist has become almost a flexi job these days. The government therefore takes an initiative so that self-employed people can build up a supplementary pension, such as company managers. That is much more sensible than continuing to argue for the joint venture. The company, its legal form, is there for certain reasons. It is not there to seek a tax advantage. In this respect, we have to make a double argument. Of course, the burden on personal taxation should also be reduced and the only way to do so is to make effective savings. Then we don't need a flight to a company. On the contrary, one is pleased that one can work and that one can be paid in a normal way. We therefore call for a reduction in personal taxation rather than the avoidance of corporate behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u75	Mr President, are some companies set up or are they incorporated from a strictly fiscal point of view, excluding any other consideration? Yes, the problem is not new. There are ways of doing this that are particularly aggressive. People create completely fictitious societies, which make fictitious interposition of people. We're in tax evasion. There, the tax administration has to do its job. If it considers that a company is fictitious, it has at its disposal different possibilities, such as simulation. Simulation is a legal figure that can be mobilised by the tax administration. It does so on a regular basis and considers that it is not bound by the fact that it is a member, that it can take a direct interest in people and tax income in person. There are all the provisions on tax abuse. There, we are no longer necessarily in fraud, but we are in tax avoidance, in tax abuse. A whole range of other provisions are used to combat the abuse of companies when fraudulently done. In other cases of people who decide to enter society, considering that the first parameter is tax, it is a mistake. It is wrong to say that! The first reason, when we talk with practitioners, when we observe, when we know the economic realities, I obviously talk about small businesses, is to protect the heritage or to create a legal vehicle that will allow a capitalization with partners who, each, will put logs in the company to make it work. It is also for this reason that some create societies: to protect the heritage and to create a structure for financing. For the rest, Mr Van de Velde, I am sorry, but the legislator did not wait for you to ensure that the use of companies could only be used for tax purposes. The EUR 36,000 rule for obtaining the reduced rate was already a particularly important form of constraint on incorporation. The 4x4 rule taxes a portion of the surplus value of an assignment when a person who exercises in a natural person decides to set up a company and bring his customers and a whole series of assets that he owns in a natural person. It was considered that if valuation exceeded a certain amount, there was taxation. All of this exists. And I can go on. A wide range of measures have been taken to avoid the formation of companies solely for tax purposes. As the UCM President has said, it is unfortunate that you are saying that any small business is made for tax reasons. You suspect everyone. No, I don't! If there are abuses, the tax administration can trigger certain mechanisms. The suspicious approach you're developing is quite strange. I don't adhere to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u76	I think the discussion will be over. In fact, we say the same thing: there should be no incentive to work together. It is not necessary in corporate taxation, but it must also be removed from personal taxation. As soon as we think forward-looking and possibly take a number of steps in personal taxation, as in the Netherlands, that stimulus will be completely gone, I think. The EUR 36 000 rule is absolutely not new, as you rightly say. It was introduced in 1992. The amount can be discussed. I only see that during the period 2002-2018 both the minimum remuneration reduced rate of corporation tax and the 50% tax base in the personal income tax were always indexed. The current government does not index more or less than the amount. We can then discuss the level of this, but it is purely an indexation, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u77	It's not an indexing you're doing, it's an indexing catch-up of several years. How many years, Mr. Van Biesen? Ten years, ten years of indexing catching up, it's brutal! If you had said, "From now on, we're indexing to allow SMEs to adapt," we would have understood. But in this case, you're catching up with ten years of indexing, it's amazing! I'm starting to understand the logic. Your argument is to make an indexing catch-up of an amount that has not been indexed in ten years. Can you imagine the brutality for people? From one day to the next, you ask them to completely change the management, not fiscal but financial, of their business. This was also recalled by SMEs. Company owners and small managers do not pay or pay low wages. They don't do it out of joy of heart. They prefer to leave their money in their company to be able to ensure its development. They give up a large amount of remuneration to leave liquidity in the company because it will need it. And then you say, "No, no, no! You must allocate at least 45,000 euros. Otherwise, you will lose the reduced rate and a penalty will be applied to you." I understand the logic better, but imagine the brutality of catching up over ten years! Index from now on!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u78	It was indeed an indexation. You refer to brutality, I refer to the hypocrisy of not including that 50/50 ratio in the discussion every time. The critics, the critics of the 45 000, forget, of course, that the law states that if less than 45 000 can be paid, the ratio of 50/50 between the profit and the remuneration of the manager remains and also gives entitlement to the reduced rate. If you don't make a profit, you don't have to do anything. In this respect, all the balances that need to be respected have been respected. It is not the case that small and medium-sized enterprises will suffer from this. What no one has noticed, until you have just said it, is the removal of the maximum limit, the payment of 13% dividend as a condition for the favourable rate. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be very clear, the SMEs and pmes are not paying for this reform. SMEs and pme's are just getting better. We should not organise a kind of avenue des misérables on the basis of a single testimonial, so to speak. No, this reform is there to help our companies move forward. I found the discussion we had with the UCM almost hallucinating. Now suppose there is such a big difference between the fabric in Wallonia, and Brussels and Flanders, let's just split the corporation tax. Then arrange it yourself. Then arrange it your way. Then proceed with your higher rates. Go ahead. I assume that this is a favourable situation for all companies, both in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. We must look at the statistics and studies: 87% of the companies in Wallonia support this reform. So, Mr Laaouej, you should do your homework. Ladies and gentlemen, this global relance reform is, of course, far more than what we have heard from the opposition so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u79	Mr Van de Velde, you refer to a survey of an independent organization. You compare this organisation to the Union of the middle classes, which is one of the social partners, and which is the most important representative of Brussels and Walloon small and medium-sized enterprises. The latter told you that he considered that Brussels and Walloon companies had not been placed on the same footing as Flemish companies. This means that he asked you to take into account the Brussels and Walloon realities. You're making it a community problem. I take note of that. Tomorrow, you may explain to us that there is a little more rain in Wallonia than in Flanders, and that the weather needs to be regionalized. Your obsession is a little that: any problem must have as a solution a regionalization, even carried out in the most absurd way. At European level, we are debating European tax harmonisation. Common tax bases and common rates are being sought to achieve convergence and avoid tax competition within Europe. You then put forward considerations of this nature, which basically reflect your lack of a vision of taxation. I explained earlier in the gallery: your corporate tax reform does not take place by considering all economic parameters, such as the tax base, the international environment, practices at European level. Instead, you introduce us each time to the little bit of the lorgnette. You're producing figures that don't represent anything. The problem is there, Mr. Van de Velde. We ask you to think a little bit before you carry out this corporate tax reform project, but you continue with your narrow policy arguments, which are not up to the stakes. You attended the Middle Class Union hearings yesterday, like me. You've heard his responsibles. I still think you don't want to hear them or listen to them. I am not talking about the tables of figures, on which the debate will continue. They have said, with heart, things that should concern you, economic realities. You know, Walloon and Brussels companies also have as customers, and above all as suppliers, other companies, whether in Flanders or elsewhere in Europe. Can you imagine we're in a vacuum? Do you imagine that flows and economic circuits stop at the linguistic border? I can refer you to the study of the Iweps, an institute of Walloon prospective studies, which shows how much Flemish companies derive from their wealth and added value from what they sell and operate in Wallonia. Do I have to remind you how interdependent the different regions of the country are? Brussels is a pool of jobs of more than 700,000 people, in which many Flemish workers come to work. Mr. Van de Velde, take a little height and don't be a prisoner...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u80	Mr Laaouej, you have far exceeded the agreed two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u81	I believe that communitarianizing the debate as you do is really missing out on the issues and discussions we have had. This fundamental debate concerns all entrepreneurs in this country. It is a shame to make it a Community issue because it is not appropriate to do so. Who is the UCM? It represents all the TPEs, SMEs and independents in this country. In Belgium today there are 899,223 SMEs, more than 80% of which do not employ employees and 14% one to four. It is for these companies that we fight. It is for these companies that we take the floor to tell you that UCM and UNIZO have long been calling for tax reform, a reduction in corporate tax, a reduction in the nominal rate. This is also the case with Ecolo-Groen. But that does not mean that the reform that is being submitted to us delights them. Indeed, through a whole series of devices that you are planning – I am thinking in particular of all those companies that employ fewer than five employees – you are making them pay the reduction in corporate tax. It is this question that is being debated. The UCM tried to show it by graphs yesterday, in committee, demonstration that you swept away with a back of your hand saying that the calculations were false. Then show us more calculations! That is what the debate is about. It does not concern all companies in the country, but the focus of our SMEs and self-employed. One figure seems particularly interesting to me when we try, like you, in vain, to dilute the Community smoke screen. Today, there are 79 SMEs per 1 000 inhabitants in Belgium, 84 in Brussels, 83 in Flanders and 66 in Wallonia. The SME fabric is the strength of this country. And there is no question of saying that a measure should be drawn up for Flemish SMEs, a measure for Brussels SMEs and a measure for Walloon SMEs. No one asked, except you now! By doing so, you miss out on the issue of how to make effective tax reform that encourages the small structures that are the vast majority of our SMEs, our SMEs and our self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u82	Mr Van de Velde, if I have heard you correctly, you have assimilated the hearing of the UCM to a boulevard of the wretched. Yesterday, another prominent member of the majority called them communists. In short, for the Flemish parties of the majority, the UCM is the union of the wretched communists. I really regret that, in this majority, there is no French-speaking party to defend the legitimate interests of Walloon and Brussels-based companies!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I find this whole debate very strange. I think that a number of parties will still have to eat some sandwiches before they can pose as a credible business party, especially when they do so on the basis of data that are not correct. Mr. Dispa, you put your finger on the wound. What's it about? Of course, it's not about the boulevard des misérables. Of course, we are not saying that they are. No, it's about the way this left-wing opposition tries to imagine it as the boulevard des misérables, but that's obviously not the case. If you are putting up someone who has to come up with figures to prove that what we are doing for small and medium-sized enterprises is not working, make sure that he has good figures and that he can prove his right, rather than telling a totally wrong story. Your politics is the disinformation that you try to steam through from all sides and which makes you think you are entrepreneurial. You're not at all. That's bullshit. I thought the discussion we had with Mr Laaouej was the right one. You must make sure that you do so with substantiated figures and tables. We are happy to enter into the discussion, but we continue to say that it is the small companies that will pay for this story is wrong. That's a lie. That's not right. You may continue to do so, but that is pure disinformation, and that is the way you do politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u84	Yesterday afternoon, there was a numerical demonstration, a table in support. You yourself said, "Go sit down with the Van Overtveldt firm, so you can compare the numbers." Where are these numbers, where are these calculations? The important part of this reform is in relation to this public, the very small structures, which often find it difficult to make ends meet. It is this public, which creates sustainable and non-relocable employment, that must be encouraged. After yesterday's hearing, there are doubts as to the effectiveness of the measures taken for part of this public. Doubts do not weigh on rates but on compensatory measures. You can say it's fake news, you can say it's disinformation, it's a smokescreen when you don't have any more arguments. I'm telling you this on the basis of yesterday's afternoon audition. The UCM proposed a numerical table. I'm not saying it's absolute truth, but it's an important basis for discussion. You are saying that the UCM is the last of the idiots, which presents false figures and practices misinformation. There is apparently no one in this government to defend SMEs and the self-employed, and that is regrettable. We can consult the written report to find out what has been said, but that is not what you are talking about, Mr Van de Velde! Let us be serious, let us have a clear debate on the figures instead of making smoke screens that do not serve the public debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u85	Mr President, I will put a very simple question to Mr Laaouej. Mr Vanden Burre was also present in committee, but he lies here that he sees black. Mr Laaouej, have we provided tables that contradict what the UCM has said?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u86	You provided us with tables that were sent to us by e-mail and that we sent to...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u87	He's lying!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u88	No ping-pong! I'm trying to run this debate. It's not Mr. Van de Velde to ask questions. It is not Mr Van de Velde who asks questions to other Members who then have to answer them. That's not how we're gonna do it, because that's still a ping-pong game. No, Mr Van de Velde is now continuing his speech. If you ask me to speak, Mr. Laaouej, you have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u89	Dear colleague, you cut me off before I finished answering. Mr. Van de Velde transmitted a number of tables yesterday in committee, which came from him or from the N-VA group or from the firm, that is difficult to say. I asked for them to be sent to the UCM by e-mail. It was done between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m., I think. This, in order to allow the UCM and the Finance Office to have an adversarial debate. I think I said it quite often, we need an adversarial debate. This debate is still ongoing since around 10 a.m., the UCM responded to the Finance Office and we were in copy. Discussions have not been completed and the partners in the discussion disagree. This is the current state of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u90	Mr President, I find it particularly painful that this debate should be reduced to a case in which a company makes a profit of EUR 86 000 and pays itself EUR 36 000. This example has been discussed for a long time between majority and opposition in order to be right. I can only tell you that I have looked carefully at both Mr Van de Velde's figures and the UCM's figures, and that they are both right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u91	So he's not lying? (To Mr Vanden Burre)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u92	He's lying because he says the numbers aren't given, while the numbers are given. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u93	Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Mr President, I would like to return to the essence of the draft, in particular the reform of corporate taxation, without fixing ourselves on one document or at what point in time would have said or expressed something that would have shown that we would have favoured one or the other. Let us return to the essence of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u94	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u95	Mr Van de Velde, calling someone a liar does not serve the public debate. What I said and what appears in the speeches and in this morning's e-mail is that a discussion is under way. A painting was shown yesterday by the UCM, tables were exchanged by the firm and then? It's version A against version B. Things need to be clarified. I would like you to withdraw your accusations, and I find this a shame in the discussion of a fundamental bill. Secondly, the UCM, Mr Van Biesen, is not just a case. It represents the vast majority of SMEs, TPEs and independents in this country. The UCM conducted a survey, before coming to the hearing yesterday, with their social secretariat, covering all their members. Don't say it's a small case. This is a very concrete survey, for which they gave the averages of remuneration, which oscillate around 35 000 euros for Walloon and Brussels entrepreneurs. They are representative. Denying it is completely incorrect. It's time for the government to get back on track. If we did this at UNIZO, Mr. Van de Velde, you wouldn't call each other liars. Be respectful of the interlocutors who have presented themselves and have a substantive debate on the figures! We are also asking for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u96	Mr President, I am not asking you for a favor. I ask you to speak in the usual and customary ways. This is not a favor, I just ask to speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u97	Mr Laaouej, do we have an agreement which limits any interruption to two minutes, which can only be interrupted once and then we go back to the speaker? Either we made that agreement or we didn't. If it isn't, I don't care. But if there's an agreement, I'll stick to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u98	Mr President, between my speech and that of Mr. Van de Velde, there were others. You will understand that I am perfectly in line with the rules that we improvised together this morning. Let's say things as they are! I'm doing nothing but taking the floor again. It's not a favor you're giving. I'm somewhat irritated by this way of doing things, I'm not hiding it from you. In short, Mr. President, everything that is happening here is symptomatic of the sloppy work of the government. That's what we pay here today. If we had worked in good conditions, given the time to carry out the necessary hearings, analysed this dossier in depth, compared the figures, we would not now, in plenary, be busy sending tables to each other's figures. For the rest, the truth has its rights. The UCM considers that the figures used by the majority and the cabinet of the Minister of Finance are cases that may be contradicted by other cases. That's where they are! That is not the way to pursue a tax policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u99	Mr Van de Velde, please return to corporate tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u100	Yes, Mr President. I am glad that this sitting is being recorded so that all my fellow Members can look at what has really been said afterwards, isn't it, Mr Vanden Burre? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this reform and relance are much more important and go much wider than the discourse we have been conducting here for some time under the impetus of a somewhat unhindered opposition in my view. This reform is green in terms of car use and future investment. This reform is also more social. That part's still on. For example, I mention the allowance for childcare for single parents who are having a hard time getting a job. This reform stimulates the economic fabric in our country and, above all, this reform is forward-looking, because the relay also offers some opportunities for deduction of investment for future technologies. Finally, there is now a corporate tax to set aside its coffers, which is transparent and unambiguous for all economic operators. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a fine five-piece of this government. The history of the first tax shift already confirms this government today: more economy by less burdens. Minister, I will repeat once more: you are the best refund guarantee for all those who work and have worked in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u101	Colleagues, I intend to continue the debate without a lunch break at noon. We shall continue the debate without interruption unless we are prevented from proceeding for technical reasons. Please bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u102	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since 2015, the government has embarked on a strategy to boost our economy. Corporate tax reform was initially part of the broader stimulus law, within which the government is taking a number of other measures to stimulate employment, purchasing power and social cohesion. However, we are pleased to have reached an agreement between the majority and the opposition to put into practice, before the end of the year, an important part of the draft law on economic recovery and social cohesion: that of corporate tax, which is the subject of our debate this morning. This agreement is proof - if it were necessary - of the will of all to reform corporate tax, beyond speeches, otherwise how would we have reached an agreement? The other measures that complement this coherent recovery package of our economy will follow very soon. We will have an opportunity to discuss this in January. Corporate tax reform is a significant and ambitious reform that helps make our economy stronger. By implementing the measures included in this law, we send a clear message and strengthen Belgium's stability in the economic field. With the reform of corporate tax, we are implementing a second major tax reform after the tax shift. It is historical and necessary. This reform is primarily part of changes at European and international level. Today, we could no longer ignore the pressure on these two levels. The government's strategic approach is to lower rates and broaden the taxable base. This approach was welcomed by the National Bank. On the one hand, this reform is part of a European framework where neighbouring countries reduce their tax rates or plan to do so. With a nominal rate of 33.99%, Belgium applied the third highest tax rate after Malta and France. It was imperative to send a strong signal. The government has therefore decided to lower the corporate tax rate from 33 to 25 per cent by 2020, with particular attention for SMEs – be they Flemish, Brussels or Walloon – which will benefit more rapidly from a further reduction in the rate. Indeed, as of 2018, a rate of 20% will apply. By reducing rates, we are approaching the European average of 21.9% and increasing our attractiveness. On the other hand, the OECD and the European Union are increasingly aggressive towards niche strategies. It is important to stress that, in the proposed reform, most tax niches have been directly or indirectly affected. Only the most important niches have been preserved. This will gradually lead to more tax justice between large companies and SMEs. For the MR, this is an essential point. In addition to lowering rates, other measures are important: the additional crisis contribution, which will be reduced to 2% in 2018 before completely disappearing in 2020; the investment deduction, which will increase from 8% to 20% in 2018 and 2019; the gradual extension of the exemption from the professional discount for scientific research to bachelors; tax consolidation, as well as the transposition of the ATAD Directive. Some measures appear to be less favourable overall for SMEs, but a balance was needed to reduce the tax rate to 20%. It should be added that many other measures are being taken for the self-employed and SMEs. Among these, the lifetime exemption from employer contributions for the first job created by an SME between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2020; the additional reductions from the second to the sixth job created within an SME; the establishment of the second pillar of an individual pension. All these measures are bearing fruit since 22,188 new jobs were created thanks to the zero contribution measure. Of the criticisms of 20 or so corporate tax measures, three are major. I will not go back to the dialogue with the UCM, which has already been discussed extensively earlier. I find it a pity to situate these debates at Community level, because our Walloon and Brussels SMEs certainly deserve much more encouragement and attention and they certainly have nothing to envy to their neighbours. In general, it is not constructive to take every step in isolation. It is necessary to adopt a comprehensive vision, as is the tax declaration, and to take into account the context in which this reform is taking place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u103	Mr Piedboeuf, I am pleased to hear that you are partly undressing your colleague, Mr. Van de Velde, on the communautarisation of the debate. I would like to hear from you about the comments made by your colleague from the majority, Mr. Van de Velde, when he spoke of the untruths and lies allegedly uttered by the UCM. I ask for your opinion because the debate held yesterday afternoon in committee on the representativeness of the social partners, and of the UCM in particular, is important. Your colleague yesterday claimed that the UCM does not represent much and that they came to tell stories. However, we know that the UCM is the main association that defends SMEs, TPEs and independents in French-speaking Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u104	It is obvious that we know the importance of the UCM. We have been in contact with them many times. I told Mr. Nys, after the hearing, that we had to meet again to talk about it. I am referring to what Mr. Van de Velde. He was talking about the paintings. Yesterday, tables were presented by the UCM. We then considered the possibility of studying the issue more broadly. Several tables have been distributed and I have reviewed them. They show income brackets and distributions. It is noted that in all cases presented, a tax gain is realized. The situation of the company must be optimised, as I pointed out to the UCM at the hearing, in front of the table presented. I was brought to trial, and I was wrong: I said that we had to change our tax advisor because, on this table, we can optimize. Anyone, faced with such a table, will consider that adjustments are likely possible. Mr. Van de Velde talked about a lie. You said no pictures were distributed. There were some, and we saw them. I am learning that there is a concertation on this subject and I welcome it, even if it is late.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u106	No, it's not late, Mr. Laaouej! We will vote for 20% for SMEs, and that is important. I'm coming to the community. This subject was raised yesterday in committee. It is said that Walloon and Brussels SMEs have lower income rates. The economic fabric should be properly studied. Some Walloon and Brussels SMEs are extremely efficient. It is possible that there are more small independents, small companies, but we must defend our fabric and refrain from miserabilism. To bow to this element is to show miserabilism. We must defend our regions, both Brussels and Wallonia, with strength. All the measures we are taking to defend SMEs are in this direction. We must be proud of our fabric and fight for it. It is true that more and more Flemish companies are moving to Wallonia, in the province of Luxembourg. I'm one of the defenders. They come because the fabric is favorable, the land is cheaper and it is possible to develop a suitable economic activity. Let's defend our heritage instead of making miserabilism!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u107	That's exactly what we're doing! I applaud the last words you have spoken. I have no problem with that. All our proposals on this subject in recent years can only show this. I just wanted to intervene with regard to the credibility and representativeness of the UCM, which was called into question by your colleague. I find this, on the part of this majority, quite problematic. The UCM carried out a study, a survey, through its social secretariat, on its own members. It was on that basis that she proposed the table. We're not gonna turn around the pot for 200 years. What your colleague here, a member of the majority, says with you is that she has come to tell salads and that she is only one case and that she is – it has not been said literally but I translate – "not credible". With that, I have a real problem. She's credible! She conducted a survey of her members. I would still like someone, one day, in this majority, to be able to put things back in their place. I'd also like to hear from you about the commitments. You're talking about consultation. It is, of course, very late, but what is your commitment to this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u108	There is no doubt about the credibility of the UCM, as well as its foundation for Walloon and Brussels-based companies. But when we talk about the reform of corporate tax in relation to the minimum income of 45 000 euros and when I ask the question of what the UCM thinks of the 50/50 rule, which is obviously more favourable to SMEs, I have no answer. I take the example, to reason by the absurd, of a company which, if it gives its leader 10 000 euros and declares a profit of 10 000 euros, benefits from the reduced rate. So we're not in the 45,000 anymore. It is said that in this case, she benefits from the reduced rate. What's the answer? "Do you believe we can live with 10,000 euros?" That is not the reasoning! Reasoning is a reasoning by absurdity. Compared to the rest, we have opened the door to discussions. There are already, as you say, exchanges with the firm. We will of course go back to listening to the UCM, as we do very often in relation to a whole series of other measures. Then we'll see if we still have to change the legislation. It must also be said that in the programming there are deadlines 2018, 2019 and 2020. If we have made mistakes and if we see that there are mistakes, we can also make a difference. I'm coming back to what I was saying. In general, it is not constructive to take every step in isolation. It is necessary to adopt a comprehensive vision, as is the case with the tax declaration, and to take into account the context in which this reform takes place. With a careful study of all measures, the tax situation of SMEs is significantly improved. Very few will be those who might not find an interest in it. Transversally, the reform cuts rates and fights against tax niche strategies. As we know, the status quo would have been considerably negative. In a small country such as Belgium with a small open economy, this need has been mentioned many times in the Finance Committee by all parties. Without reform, we risked a considerable loss in terms of competitiveness, employment and investment. This reform will make our country more attractive and legally stable in terms of its economic model. Finally, at the budgetary level, it must be borne in mind that the return effects have not been taken into account, and we know that these will be largely positive for our economy. The National Bank has confirmed that we can expect positive dynamic effects. Taking into account the potential effects in the medium and long term, and therefore in general, on the recovery of our economy is essential. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for our group, it is essential that the government continue its structural reforms with a view to continuing to promote economic growth, employment, purchasing power and social cohesion. Corporate tax reform plays a key role in this regard. It is a reform that meets imperatives. We are fully aware that we need businesses that create jobs. With this reform, we are reinvigorating and maintaining significant economic activity in our country. The reform also allows, and above all, more tax justice between large companies and SMEs, which the MR fully supports. It is therefore with enthusiasm and conviction that our group supports corporate tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u109	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a CD&V group, we are very pleased that we can finally vote on the reform of corporate taxation. We have been asking for years, even before Minister Van Overtveldt took office, to make our corporate tax fairer for SMEs in relation to large companies. We wanted a broadening of the taxable base and fewer exemptions and deductions. We also wanted to make corporate tax more competitive and to give our companies more oxygen so that they can in turn create jobs and prosperity. Finally, we wanted to maximise the support for innovation and research provided by corporate taxation, always for growth and high-quality jobs in our region. Belgian corporate tax has been characterised by its niche taxism for years. It is historically built around a high nominal rate with different items, subtractions and systems to reduce the real tax rate. However, we have known for some years now that this system is under pressure, not least because of the European rules on state aid. Moreover, the rules are increasingly harmonised at European Union level. That is a good thing and we support it. Furthermore, there are increasingly recommendations from international bodies such as the OECD, such as the BEPS Action Plan. This evolution forces Belgium to partially revise the historical strategy of tax niches in corporation tax. The Belgian corporate tax rate is one of the highest in the European Union and the OECD. According to the government and also according to CD&V, this situation can no longer be maintained when several European countries are working to reduce the rate of their corporate tax, think of Ireland where this happens to an extreme extent, the United Kingdom and also the Netherlands, close to us. Without intervention, according to the government and CD&V, there is a risk of a loss of competitiveness and associated jobs and investments. Income for the public sector would be put under pressure not only directly through corporation tax but also indirectly through other sources of income. The aim of this reform is therefore to aim for a simplified system. It has been partly simplified, but not yet what we want to achieve, with greater legal certainty and justice. This objective is achieved by reducing the current rate and thus financing it through the broadening of the taxable base. Therefore, a number of specific regimes that have been built up in the past, such as certain deductions, will either reduce or eventually fade out. Finally, the few options left to reduce the real tax burden are more closely linked to what we call the economic substance or economic reality and business. To this extent, however, particular emphasis is placed on specific deductions that stimulate employment and innovation, including once again the extension of the exemption from the transfer of company tax to researchers, which we consider to be very positive. The Belgian government still has a budget deficit. This reform aims, through new investment and resulting employment, to contribute to the improvement of public finances. So it is actually also, internally, a tax shift in corporation tax. According to the Minister, budget neutrality was assessed and the achievement of that objective was measured. We have indeed requested the opinion of the National Bank in order to test this important reform in terms of budget neutrality. After all, we do not want to carry out the corporate tax reform, especially if it would create a risk to our future income and security of state finances. The National Bank's report, which was presented to and explained in the committee, has given the benefit of the doubt to this corporate tax reform in terms of budget neutrality and indeed stipulates that there are clearly upward but also downward risks associated with the present reform. In the view of the Minister, it was prudent not to take into account payback effects from new investments and jobs, and the likelihood that a standstill scenario would have significant negative effects on economic parameters and public finances. It is also true that for a number of years in a row we have seen an increasing trend in corporate tax revenue. Therefore, this is a good time to be able to implement the reform. Minister, as has already been pointed out in committee, CD&V will give confidence to the reform of corporate taxation. However, we also rely on monitoring the reform in terms of the impact on revenue and expenditure. It must not be the case that the reform will in the long term be a gap or an additional gap in public finances. The building blocks for a new corporate tax are now known. The nominal rate will fall from 33 % to 25 % in two phases from 2020. The additional crisis contribution will disappear: it will first be reduced to 2% in 2018, after which it will be abolished in 2020. We had a great deal of respect for small companies in the reform. For them, the rate will fall to 20% from 2018 for the taxable base of the first 100 000 euro. We also wanted to be able to apply a significant tariff reduction for small companies from 2018. Small companies would soon be able to benefit from a reduced rate of 20% on the first tranche of EUR 100 000. We therefore hope that, for small and medium-sized enterprises, the reform of corporate taxation can be an additional boost for us, always with a view to creating additional wealth, added value and jobs. This remains the motto of the current federal government and the motto on which CD&V entered the current federal government. Our motive is the creation of jobs, growth and prosperity. A number of special fiscal favors will disappear. However, some existing assets will be retained or strengthened. I refer once again to the regime for encouraging investment and innovation. I come from a city that counts a lot of biotech and pharmaceutical companies, think of Janssen Pharmaceutica and of Genzime. I can see, in my city and region, how important these regimes are for innovation and research, not only in terms of employment but also in terms of added value, added value in a city and employment. We are therefore very pleased that these regimes are being strengthened in the reform process. Tax support for the audiovisual and performing arts sector also remains because of the direct employment effects. I am not going to go into detail about the various measures. I conclude that, overall, this is a positive and reinforcing reform, which we can and must support. Moreover, in the margin of corporation tax, a number of measures are provided for in the Relance Bill, such as the introduction of the increased investment deduction for self-employed persons, the possibility for self-employed natural persons to obtain an increased occupational deduction. We note that a great deal of effort has been made in the self-employed natural persons sector, in order to combat even more company mergers at a reduced rate of corporation tax and also to give self-employed natural persons all the opportunities and oxygen they deserve to participate in the growth and creation of jobs. We therefore welcome this reform and hope for further recruitment and new prosperity in our country as soon as possible. Stand still is always deteriorating, Minister. With this reform we hope to work once again on the future of all of us. Finally, a special thank you to the services for the immense work they have done over the past few weeks, such as translation and support. I would also like to thank the chairman of the Finance Committee. The government could have put forward the draft laws more quickly, which would have given Parliament more room and more opportunity to deal with everything properly. Nevertheless, we have noted that, thanks to the chairman of the Finance Committee, this Parliament has had a reasonable amount of resilience and flexibility to deal with all these drafts and proposals in the committee in the very short term and ultimately to put them to the vote. That can also be said. I would also like to thank the opposition for their cooperation, which has made it possible for us to be where we are today. Finally, Mr Calvo, I had to look strange a few times earlier, because the blames flew back and forth, just before Christmas. I hope that this period may lead to peaceful days between opposition and majority, as well as to the majority and to pleasant end-of-year celebrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u110	Thank you, Mrs Smaers. I call Mr Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u111	Mr President, first of all I would like to echo Mrs Smaers' last words, albeit not in a Christmas spirit, but an end-of-year atmosphere. I would like to make one thing clear: we can only meet here today to reform corporate taxation thanks to the effort and willingness of all Members of Parliament in the hemisphere. I would therefore like to reiterate what Mrs Smaers said: I thank all Members of Parliament, from any group, for being prepared to deal with the reform in this way in the Chamber. The way in which the discussion took place was, in fact, du jamais vu in Parliament, or rarely seen. The discussion of such an important reform could have been completely different. As we always do, we could have taken a great deal of time to talk to all the actors in the field. After these talks, we could have adjusted the reform where necessary or at least perfected it. The Open Vld is exceptionally pleased with the reform of corporate tax. Just now, Mr Piedboeuf referred to the important table of the National Bank which states that our country has the third highest rate of corporation tax throughout Europe. This means that we must be competitive with our neighbouring countries and with the rest of the world. Of course, there was a need for a fundamental reduction in tariffs. What has not been discussed here today is the fact that the lowest rate is also taken on a much larger basis. In the past, the lowest rate applied only to EUR 25 000, now it is being extended to EUR 100 000. The 20% rate puts us at the back of the peloton, so on the better side of the tables as regards the competitive battle. The 20% is lower than in the neighbouring countries and has become competitive. That is the most important and fundamental reform before us today. The second important task we gave to the government two and a half years ago in this hemisphere was to reform this corporate tax, but to make sure that SMEs pay less and multinationals and large companies pay more. All the analyses show that there will indeed be a shift of 2 or 3 billion, 2 to 3 billion which SMEs will have to pay less and which large companies and multinationals will have to cough up. That's an important fact. The conditions for this reform, i.e. a shift in corporate taxation, less for SMEs and more for large companies and multinationals, that equity process, which has been implemented with this reform, has been implemented with tax equity. That's an important fact. We also argued that it should be budget-neutral. This reform took two years. Important measures have already been taken during this period, which have already increased a very large proportion of corporate tax. Just think of the reduced impact of the notional interest deduction, which many colleagues here said years ago was the biggest gift given to SMEs. I look mainly at the sp.a banks, where it was said to be a gift. The party programme referred to a gift of 12 billion to SMEs. Today, this notional income deduction is no longer of interest to companies. It is only a very low percentage, based on the OLO interest rate, which exists only for the part that grows own funds during that period. In other words, only an exceptionally small percentage will still make use of this. This is no longer the subject of discussion. It is said that this gift suddenly no longer exists, but in the end it has resulted in a significant increase in corporate tax revenue. The Minister will be able to confirm that. It has already been introduced, and it has already brought several million euros into the State Treasury. To some people's argument that corporate tax should be budget neutral today, I would suggest that it should be budget neutral over the whole period. The companies have already paid up billions more today. For us, there can be a small tax cut for companies in the future. That will be the result of this corporate tax reform. In other words, the companies have already made their contribution and will be able to recover a bit thanks to this reform. It will be SMEs and SMEs in particular who will reap the results of this. I'm coming to yesterday's hearing. I thought it was a missed opportunity, colleagues. I am of course very pleased that the people of the UCM have come here. I have also listened to them with all due attention, as I always listen. I can safely say here that I am almost the only representative in this House, perhaps together with Mr Piedboeuf, of that organisation. So we can be expected to know many of their views.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u112	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u113	You're a member of UNIZO? That's the UCM now. It is good that there are some of us. That is right, because Parliament must be the representative of the people, and in other words, of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u114	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u115	We have held a hearing with the UCM on a certain part, in which...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u116	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u117	I said: I thank all those who have taken the hearing... If I say thank you to everyone, it is against those who have taken the initiative. I told you that, Mrs. Kitir. I thank all those who have taken care of that. I just thought it was a missed opportunity for us not to have been able to do this more comprehensively and spontaneously a few weeks ago. Then we could have talked to other organisations, such as UNIZO, the VOKA and the VBO. We would have heard clearly that everyone is happy with this reduction in corporate tax. We would have heard clearly that every company in this country is asking for this. The only problem we have is some of the measures we have had to take in order to achieve budget neutrality. In our view, they have sometimes gone a little too far in this area. There are three main points of criticism. We hope that they can be reviewed in the future, not in total, but in certain areas. Firstly, the increase from EUR 36 000 to EUR 45 000. We are talking about an indexing and an index jump which must also be available for managers. The managers must now be given an index jump. They can't get an increase now. More than an index jump. For 10 years, they must be given an index jump. The story of the index jump lies in between. The indexing is, of course, an indexing in the field of indexes. You also know, an index is a health index. Wages have not evolved in this country in the same way. The EUR 36 000, in whatever way it is calculated, would be fair to index it as we have proposed at some point and always to index it in the future. An amount of EUR 45 000 has now been chosen. I think that next spring there will be some discussions to see whether the EUR 45 000 actually corresponds to what really lives on the ground. I think we can discuss that amount. This can be adjusted during the financial year. That's not a problem. Secondly, much worse is the introduction of penalisation. Sometimes a company is set up with an unpaid manager. Why? The purpose of the company is not to house a commercial activity in it, but rather to house houses, apartments, a business building, its own company. They always have unpaid businessmen there. In future, they will have to pay 5% of the margin of EUR 45 000 that they should have had as manager. This 5% will be increased to 10% in the future. I don't think that's true. I therefore call on the government to adapt to this and to submit this to Parliament next spring. A third important point with which we have a problem is that the reduction in capital has been implemented. A reduction in capital in a company is, of course, not taxed today, and it has been invested in it, but is being put forward in the future in respect of own funds. This means that if one has made a profit, this is requalified as a dividend and one pays 30%. It is, of course, unacceptable that shareholders who invest money in a company should not be allowed to withdraw that money without paying withholding tax. I do not understand why this could go wrong in the drafting of the text. I therefore call for a clear step by the government, an adjustment in this area. All these measures have been taken within a budget-neutral framework. It is therefore also appropriate to refer to the position of the National Bank which has confirmed that this whole reform is budget-neutral and furthermore does not take into account payback effects. It is a very good decision by Parliament to vote today on corporation tax, because I am convinced that tomorrow, if everyone in our country knows what the situation is, the economic effects of this fundamental reduction in tariffs will be visible fairly quickly. I hope that the designers of this text will therefore be inspired to make changes in the sense of the three elements I have just mentioned, namely the position of the 45 000, the penalisation and the reduction of capital. I really hope that we can make progress in these areas. Many colleagues have already mentioned the many other good measures. That's how I think about the investment deduction. Mr Laaouej, it is true that it is limited to 2019, but if that measure proved to be very good, no one in Parliament will feel prevented from extending it until the next financial year. By the way, I'm inviting you to do that on your own. Let us look at the payback effects of this measure. The payback effects of the corporate tax reduction will be fundamentally high, as everyone knows who has some connection with companies. This will also bring a lot of money to the State Treasury, as is often the case with reductions. We have already made reductions a few times. Liberals in governments do this a little faster than governments without liberals. The Liberal axis MR/Open Vld is still a very large axis in this government and the idea of tariff reductions that will increase the amount of money in the State treasury is in our liberal genes. We are therefore firmly convinced that the reduction in corporation tax will benefit the State Treasury. Mr President, for these reasons our group will vote in favour. We hope for sufficient corrections in the spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u118	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an important reform, a fundamental reform of our corporate tax, a reform that is of social, economic and budgetary importance. That is why it is a pity that the treatment has gone this way. I would like to hear the interpleans of the majority say that they are grateful to the opposition for its cooperation in getting this corporate tax reform, which we do have some fundamental reservations about, approved before the end of the year. However, I would also like to give you, Mr President, that Parliament is being put to the test. We have very quickly expressed our reservations about approving the proposed important reform, which I would like to stress on a point of order. That is also what colleagues from the majority said. I wrote it down. Mr Van Biesen said that he had never felt so little respect for his work as a Member of Parliament. Mr Van Rompuy spoke of misapprehension for Parliament. I just heard Mr Van de Velde speak of a victory for Parliament. I'm really looking at that differently. If even the Council of State, which is Parliament's fundamental partner in delivering good legislative work, concludes that the 30 days it has received are simply too little to look at such a reform in depth, that it has not been able to conduct a thorough investigation and that it regrets it, then the question arises whether we, as Members of Parliament, still take ourselves seriously enough. If, even for such an important reform, I would just like to stress how important it is to regard the opinion and our own discussion as subordinate in order to be able to work quickly, then we must look into our own minds. We have accepted it as an opposition, because it is particularly important for SMEs that the reform can start early next year. However, this method cannot be repeated, although it may have been said in the past. Perhaps, Mr President, it should be agreed at the Conference of Presidents that anything that has not been tabled in Parliament before the beginning of December will simply not be discussed before the end of the year. We must give serious thought to this idea, because it is not possible to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u119	Mr Vanvelthoven, I will come back to that later today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u120	Fine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the context of the corporate tax reform, I would like to express another frustration. Minister, you said nine months ago that the texts were ready. The texts of the Summer Agreement were also ready. I then put questions to the committee in September, as the chairman knows. You said at that time that you would prefer to discuss this at the time when the draft on this subject is being discussed in Parliament. So you did not reply to my comments. I repeated my question in October. You gave me the same reaction. I repeated my question in November. At that time, you repeated, I quote: 'I strongly urge that the debate on the subject be conducted in the context of the very exhaustive debate that we will have in the coming weeks following the reform of corporate taxation'. You added that, while you were addressing me: 'If you agree, we can all be more positive about this'. A very exhaustive debate for weeks... it hasn't come to pass. The fact that you did not enter into the debate with Parliament during September, October or November, Minister, if only on the main lines, is a missed opportunity. I have just heard you say, as a result of the whole discussion with the UCM, whether or not she was invited, that I am not going into more detail about the fact that the first mail had already been sent in February and that there would have been contacts by mail in September or October. I found that there was indeed an explanation given to the VBO. I've noticed over the past few months that tax offices have been giving paid lectures to their clients on corporate tax reform. Everyone was informed. But if a simple member of the opposition interrogates you three times in committee, it is not the time. I would also like to address you on this point, Minister. Don't do that anymore. If you think that you should inform the VBO, if you think that tax offices should be informed about this to their customers, then take the step to Parliament and start the discussion with us. Mr President, I would also like to say this: not only is the time now tight, which in itself is bad; Parliament is no longer valued. That should concern all of us. I don't want to make it a game against majority. But if our institution no longer considers it important for it to have the time to discuss it, if it no longer considers it important for the Council of State to have the time to give a thorough opinion, then our democracy almost becomes one in which the government decides everything. That is a democracy that I absolutely do not wish for. I'm gonna move on to the content. It is important here that there is strong support in our society to reform corporate taxation. This reform is based on a number of principles that have been addressed here. A first important principle, with which everyone agrees, is that we want to make our SMEs, the engine of our economy, pay less taxes, while the multinationals, the big opinions that pay too little today, pay more. That's an important tax shift. There is also great agreement on a second important objective, namely the simplification of our system. The third principle, which I would like to raise, is budget neutrality. It has already been discussed here, but you know that we have serious doubts about this. When we talk about the tax shift in corporation tax, which means that we tax SMEs less and larger companies more, it is strange that yesterday we heard an important representative of the SMEs on the basis of examples and we could discuss it and explain to them that the proposed reform is not interesting for them. The fact is that the UCM has come to Parliament to express its opinion on behalf of all the members she represents and said that their members were not waiting for the proposed reform, while the VBO, the representative of large companies, is particularly happy with this corporate tax reform. Once again, one can discuss the accuracy of the examples, but if one compares these two facts, one can see that those for whom the government claims to reform are not satisfied, while those who are said to pay more are satisfied. Logically, something's not right. Mr Minister, I will continue to do so immediately. I am convinced that the objective of this tax shift is far too little. That is also why, unfortunately, we cannot approve the tax reform. This is what we are talking about, and we have talked about it many times. While new international standards are being applied, the fiscal context has been completely changed and tax planning is being countered at international level, we see that the legislative proposal on corporate tax reform is reluctant and minimally international standards to prevent tax planning, why we should make international agreements, apply turnover and exceptions, if they are possible. I refer to the ATAD (Anti Tax Avoidance Directive). Someone just mentioned the National Bank in that connection. Well, according to the National Bank, the estimate of the budgetary impact of the corporate tax reform is indeed in line with the European Commission's estimate of revenue, if there were no more profit shifts, which requires that ATAD be rigorously transposed into the tax laws of all Member States. But that is not the case. Belgium is the exception. We are the country that has very minimal or almost no turnover of the ATAD. So we ourselves are undermining the proceeds that we buried. While we are seeing progress at international level, we see the opposite in the text. Some of the tax measures in this reform offer new opportunities for tax planning in our country. I am not going to go into it very deeply, but I would like to give you a few examples. The reform of the FBI deduction simply offers new opportunities for financial planning. We would like to see the notional interest deduction abolished at this time of low interest rates, but it is now being reformed to make tax planning even more possible. The group contribution is also a measure that is ideal for tax planning. In doing so, it is possible to transfer profits between companies without consideration. In other words, there are a lot of measures in the draft law that allow for the tax planning of large companies. I would like to mention one example, which is quite remarkable. It's about limiting the interest deduction. The ATAD Directive imposes an obligation on European Member States to introduce a limitation on the deductibility of interest. It is a good thing that we want to impose the problem internationally. The present draft law, which has meanwhile become a legislative proposal, chooses to make maximum use of an exception. This exception is that it concerns loans concluded before 17 June 2016. Interests of those loans prior to 17 June 2016 shall continue to be deductible. Colleagues, this means that these loans are excluded from the scope of the ATAD Directive and that companies that have made maximum excessive interest payments in the past may therefore retain those excessive interest deductions. We now have a chance to get rid of this for the future and for the past, but we do not. The Supreme Court of Finance issued a report on this issue in 2016. 123 companies have made excessive interest payments in the past in the context of existing loans, all of which we all state are no longer allowed to do so and will no longer be able to do so in the future. These 123 companies have made these payments in the past and may continue to do so with the legislative proposal of the current majority. In this way they avoid an annual amount of EUR 942 million in taxes in our country. That is what the current majority wants to maintain in the future. That is the disgrace that lies in the bill. In many words, we want to tackle large companies, but at the same time we want to work out exceptions, so that they can still do away with them as much as possible. What we want to impose for the future, we do not dare to impose for the past. Mr President, that is the shame that lies in many of the measures contained in this bill. That shame is enough for us not to approve the reform. I hear Mr Van Biesen say that the National Bank has said that the reform is budget-neutral, but that is not true at all. The National Bank didn't say that. She pointed out a lot of risks in the reform and certainly did not say that it was budget-neutral. The same applies to the Court of Auditors and the European Commission. I know that you would like the reform not to be budget-neutral. You have also said on several occasions that it is no problem that the reform costs money. The question is, of course, who will pay for it? The people on my right in the hemisphere say that the reform must be budget neutral, but we all know by now that this will not be the case. With the approval of the present proposal, we are today handing an uncovered cheque to the government. An uncovered check means that at some point someone has to pay the invoice. We fear that the bill will have to be paid by the families, by the ordinary man in the street, and that is a second reason why, given our experience with the first tax shift, we cannot approve this reform that is not covered. One last element is simplification, but it is not really there either, Minister. I have also given examples of this. A number of measures are made more difficult for SMEs, so the government is not responding to them either. However, the explanatory memorandum sets out as one of the objectives of the reform a simplification for companies. Mr President, we have tabled a number of amendments in committee with a view to offering an alternative. That alternative would mean that we would implement the European anti-avoidance directive in full, rigorous, without exceptions and thus limit international tax avoidance. We have proposed that the notional interest deduction should be completely abolished and that the FDI deduction should be retained for real direct investment, so that no deduction should be made for costs incurred purely in order to obtain tax-free income. That too has not been accepted. We have also asked for the group contribution scheme to be removed from the proposal for the time being, so that we can look at it quietly and introduce real fiscal consolidation. That too was voted down by the majority. Too bad, because in this way the reform could have become budget-neutral and fairer. We could have made the big companies contribute more to the corporate tax shift, but the majority did not want to know about it. Finally, I decided not to retable the amendments we tabled in committee. I see that Mr Van de Velde is no longer here, because he would take this to heart. I had also proposed yesterday to consider the transposition of another directive, the UBO directive on access to the UBO register, before the end of this year. After all, it was planned that this would start from 1 January 2018. That was in your design. The corporation tax has now been taken out of that. That stays in the design. Given the urgency, which is an important European directive in the context of tackling tax fraud, we have proposed that these three articles in your draft should be accepted as an amendment to this company reform. These are three articles which were unanimously adopted in the Committee on Finance when the draft was discussed. They were also recommendations of the Panama Commission. I therefore believe that there is no problem whatsoever that these three articles, as expressed in the amendment we tabled, are also accepted. Everyone agrees. It must be done before the end of the year. This is one small signal in the context of tackling international tax fraud. I think it would be good if Parliament were to approve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, what a waste! Both Ecolo and Groen were requesting parties for a tax reform of corporate tax. We were, indeed, seeking to do so several times in the long-standing forum for a corporate tax reform that simplifies the system, which removes tax niches that are both costly and inequitable. We are thinking here of the notional interests, that we are the only ones to have rejected in 2004, when they were put in place, since there was no condition for creating jobs for those who benefited from this measure, that it was not sufficiently targeted, that we already identified at the time its extremely costly character. Between 2004 and 2017, we removed notional interests, but they cost the state budget tens of billions of euros, without having had an impact on economic creation, job creation, the development of the endogenous economy, to the extent of the expenditure achieved. We wanted a tax reform that favours self-employed people and SMEs, which creates non-removable employment here in Belgium, and all in a neutral fiscal framework. Because the contribution of enterprises, like other economic actors such as natural persons, is important for the financing of the State, for the financing of social security, because they benefit from the services provided by the State, from educational services, from all the infrastructures that are paid for by the State budget. We're not like Mr. Van Biesen, to believe that the lower the tax rate, the higher the tax rate, the higher the tax rate. There must be a minimum of taxes, but this system had to be corrected. We asked you, you did. And you did it in a catastrophic way. What a waste! What have we had to see in the last few days and, more broadly, since July 27th? First of all, the obstinacy of the majority. Last Thursday, we received two bricks in session that corresponded to the entire transposition of the Zomerakkoord, of your famous Tomorrowland agreement. You wanted to impose on us the treatment, in haste, of all these measures, good and bad, in 72 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u122	We explained to you that it was impossible, and as early as Thursday, we had submitted a proposal. We were prepared to deal in isolation with corporate tax measures, even if we were critical. You then tried the coup de force, but you lost. Yet you would have been well inspired to listen to us more quickly. Your obstinacy is one of the reasons for this waste. The second reason for such a waste is the obvious division of the majority on these measures, as on other policies. I will not go back to yesterday's controversy with Mr Franken, although it is very serious in terms of respect for human rights, nor to the Energy Pact, even though it is indispensable and urgent with a view to the ecological transition of our economy and the safeguarding of the planet for future generations. I would just like to illustrate and denounce this bad play that the majority offered us this week. Only the CD&V supports the security account measure. The other coalition parties do not even conceal their hope that the Constitutional Court will break the text, if it is voted one day. Mr. Piedboeuf, you asked for a second reading to delay the implementation of the project. We were also ready to vote on this today. Only the Open Vld supports the provision aimed at the defiance of work. The MR counts the points. The Prime Minister goes to television sets to try to reassure public opinion, when he is not doing selfies in Paris or Tomorrowland. It's the N-VA laughing in her corner and pulling the browns out of the fire. This "kibbelcabinet", this divisional government gives a pitiful image of our country. The fourth characteristic is improvisation, particularly with regard to the order of business. Fortunately, the opposition has submitted a constructive proposal to you! Unfortunately, it had to be consistently repeated for you to seize her. I am also thinking of the last-minute amendments which have arrived and of the obligation to examine complex texts in time, of course, a little more reasonable than those which you originally imposed, but which do not in any case favour serious work. Finally, a second reading of this corporate tax reform was abandoned. However, it was fully justified in view of the complexity of the texts, as well as the importance of words and commas in tax provisions – for the devil nests in detail. That was not possible. There will certainly be a second and third round. You are already announcing a correcting law. Do not doubt, Minister of Finance, that many questions will be asked of you to verify compliance with the commitments you have made, including the budget commitments. As has been demanded by others, clearly, accurate and regular monitoring is necessary in view of the budgetary importance of the amounts concerned (EUR 5 billion) and the hypothetical nature of the compensatory measures you have imagined. I repeat, I have repeatedly denounced it, that the calculations you made and which the National Bank validated, a little too slightly to my liking, are based on the 2015 figures of corporate tax, that is, the 2014 economic year. No serious private economic operator would base its economic projections on such old data. It is a way of hiding the budgetary reality of your measures. We denounce him and we deplore him. Above all, what a waste in relations with the social partners! What contempt have you shown for an essential representative economic operator: the Union of the Middle Classes? We had to insist heavily on this interlocutor...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u123	Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and of the Minister. This is proof that a file like this cannot be processed under conditions that make it impossible to analyse in depth. In the new scheme that we are proposing to adopt, the comparison of the director's minimum remuneration will in the future be made not with the corporation's taxable income, as is currently the case, but with the corporation's tax income, a tax result which is defined in article 74 of the implementing decree of the Income Tax Code and which is obtained by subtractions from taxable income. This means that the minimum wage comparison term has changed. While today it is the taxable income of the business, tomorrow it will be the tax result of the business. This will, of course, make it more difficult to access the reduced rate, because you have reduced the comparison term from the company's income. It is no longer a question of taxable income, but of the tax result. Has everyone seen this well? This gives even more reason to the Union of the middle classes. This must lead you to review all the calculations, because the tables you have given us are completely wrong. This completely changes the discussion. In this regard, I would like to have clarifications as soon as possible and a new presentation of the tables that you have provided to us, taking into account what the tax results of companies are currently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u124	Mr Laaouej, thank you for supporting my remarks: obstinacy, division, improvisation, contempt. Disliked with regard to essential social partners. I'm doing a little parenthesis on Monday afternoon's episode. You have been able to recreate a common front from the social partners of the FEB to UNIZO, passing through the Union of the middle classes, the FGTB, the CSC and the liberal union against your measure of defiscalisation of 500 euros per month, 6 000 euros per year from work. It is a catastrophic measure in terms of unfair competition, the loss of rights for workers, the definancing of social security and the questioning of voluntary work. The hearing took place under conditions that were not optimal but could take place. The reports are explicit. We hope that this part of the text is definitely set aside. In any case, we'll be there to fight it as soon as we get back to school. What then is to be said about the conditions for the hearing on Thursday afternoon of the Union of the Middle Classes? This subject has already been discussed several times by my colleagues in this general discussion. My colleague Vanden Burre will return. We want to reaffirm, as ecologists, the Union's representativeness and expertise in SMEs and self-employed people in Wallonia and Brussels, and thus throughout the country. If this key interlocutor tells us that there is a problem in this amount of 45 000 euros minimum remuneration of the leader to have access to the reduced rate, it is that there is indeed a problem! Many of these companies will not be able to access the reduced rate. If they write to you on 26 October to report this problem and you don't answer them, then there is a problem in Parliament. If they come here to explain it – certainly at the beginning of an example – on the basis of their expertise and their knowledge of the ground and that you do not react any more, whatever the government party – but in particular the MR – there is an even more important problem. This dossier is a new illustration of the logic of this government in terms of social consultation: "Always I'm interested in you!" Minimum service! "You gave us your opinion, after we decide," no matter what the consequences. This is absolutely not the conception of environmentalists in terms of social consultation. If, for many years – this is one of our country's characteristics – governments have listened to the social partners, it is not to give them the keys to the budget and the legislation, but it is because they have the expertise to prevent the legislator from making bad decisions and it is also because once the decision is taken, they are on the ground to create economic activity and employment, which generate taxes and enable a state to function. You cannot indefinitely trample on social dialogue and consider those who are active in making our economy work while we are debating in Parliament as less than anything. You are taking enormous risks in the areas of pensions, health care and, in this case, corporate tax. This is really one of the most damaging features of this government. We can share the fact of removing tax niches, reducing the nominal corporate tax rate, especially for SMEs, but far from the stated intentions, this government is not fulfilling its ambitions. Your government is "doing what I say, not what I do" and this case is a new illustration of the difference between triumphant communication and concrete acts far removed from declared intentions. What a missed opportunity! A successful corporate tax reform could have provided a new impetus for our economy, Minister. It is not just about creating a climate, it is about concrete and credible measures. We need to restore confidence, we need a budgetary balance and a rebalancing of contributions between the powerful players, the big companies, and the actors more dependent on the economic context but much more anchored in our socio-economic terroir. It could have been social progress if, beyond the corporate tax reduction measure for the first EUR 100 000 of an SME's profits, you had not ensured that it was SMEs themselves and young workers who were responsible for financing this tax reduction. In your budget tables, in terms of revenue that partially offsets the cost of this EUR 5 billion reform, there is an amount in cruising speed of EUR 177.3 million of sanctions against company managers – this is the famous measure denounced by the UCM – and an amount of EUR 97.2 million – the other measure denounced by the UCM in relation to the capital cuts. It is a total of 270 million euros that are charged to those whom you say they will be the main beneficiaries of the measure. There's something that doesn't work. We have been explaining this to you for days, without reaction, without any commitment to correct this measure. It is possible, by going back to other measures which are absolutely not justified from an economic point of view – in particular the switch to 100% instead of 95% of the tax deductibility of permanently taxed income – to remain neutral in the theoretical budget by allowing the economic operators concerned by these RTDs to continue to contribute to the budget rather than give them a gift.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u125	(...) Do you rightly stress social dialogue, but does Green believe that taxation should also be discussed there? Social dialogue is often about wage conditions, labour law, social security. Taxation has never really been the subject of social dialogue. For example, you are in favour of a capital tax. In your program, there's a five billion-dollar capital tax. There is also the impact tax. Do we have to submit such things to the social partners? Are the middle class organisations, the employers' associations involved? Should taxation also be discussed there? That's new. Taxation has always been the privilege of the government and of Parliament. For example, the impact tax has never been presented to the middle class organisations. Do you really think that if you presented them to the middle class organizations, they would find them good or bad? I think you should be careful. If you turn taxation into a subject of social dialogue, you will be even further away from home, because it is often impossible to reach any consensus on this. At the beginning of the legislature, I read in your programme that you are in favour of introducing a five billion capital tax. Do you think it should be submitted to the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u126	It is a constant and common strategy of MM. Bogaert and Van Rompuy when questioned about the measures. I have a parenthesis: I know that you do not get along very well, but, nevertheless, you have a common strategy, that of diverting the shot by asking us about our own measures. I'm sending you a question. Because the effectaks, I understand, is a measure of the CD&V. I wonder if you've been working with him and who? In order to answer your question, it is true that a distinction must be made between social security and wage policy, which is clearly rooted in tradition - a tradition that is good because it brings cohesion and social consultation - and other tax measures which must not go so far in terms of consultation. But we believe, as ecologists, that the participation of citizens, from the communal level to the federal level, and listening to the interlocutors on the ground help to avoid mistakes. In this case, the hearing of the UCM, for which we had to fight, having been alerted by the actors on the ground, made it possible to identify errors, whether voluntary or not, in the balance of your tax reform of corporate tax. We denounce your blindness, the lack of listening and of taking into account remarks that we feel are totally justified. When the main representative organisation of SMEs and self-employed people in Wallonia warns us that, on the basis of the studies it has carried out and its knowledge of the ground, the limit of 45 000 euros that you have identified is too high, it deserves to be heard. This limit will ensure that most of the companies that the UCM represents do not have access to the reduced ISOC rate and that they will be penalized financially for this. Why don't you correct your text? Why does the MR remain silent about this reality? That's the question I wanted to ask. I was on missed economic, social and environmental opportunities. There are, of course, measures in the field of company cars, but they are millimetres in view of the enormous cost involved. You could have properly financed your tax reform by fundamentally reviewing the company car system. In an undifferentiated way, you are proposing an increase in the deductibility of investments, including investments in the carbon sectors, when we made very clear commitments to decarbonize our economy in various places, notably at the Paris COP 21. It is also a missed opportunity in budgetary terms. This reform is not as much for the benefit of SMEs as you are trying to make it seem. As I said, we support the nominal rate reduction measure for SMEs because in fact they largely escape the benefits of the tax niches that have been created over time. They have been only at the profit margin of the policy of notional interests which has mainly benefited large companies, including those which, after earning billions of profits, have disinvested our country by leaving a social desert. But above all, the measures that you have taken to limit access to this tax reduction penalise them and penalise them mainly the TPEs, the start-up SMEs, which have a limited turnover or those in difficulty and which, on the contrary, should be helped to overcome a difficult economic situation. There is therefore a mystification to claim that this new tax system for companies will mainly help SMEs and that it is directed to their advantage. Except, Mr. Piedboeuf, and there you still have work to do, to correct what needs to be done and which has been clearly identified. We have regularly asked ourselves who are the winners and who are the losers with an element that seemed to me of consensus: we had to correct the tax contributory system of companies by making a greater contribution to those companies that are more able to do so and generate the most profits, those that have benefited from the tax niches that the European Commission has today called into question. The work of Commissioner Vestager in relation to the excess profit ruling can be commended. For example, we can support the OECD's intentions to have a common tax base between the European states and, if possible, common rates tomorrow, this fight against secret rules which allow companies in different states and unfortunately also in Belgium to benefit from much too advantageous tax systems. We regret, therefore, that you have not been more severe towards these companies, and more ambitious, despite what your budget tables are trying to make believe. The way in which the majority envisages transposing the ATAD Directive against corporate tax evasion into Belgian law, which will ensure that taxes are paid where profits are made, is far too unambitious. The directive, I repeat, proposes two ways for the Member States: an ambitious path and a minimum path. You have consciously and voluntarily chosen the minimum path. You are trying to make us believe, through your budget tables, that it will produce maximum budgetary effects, estimated at 750 million euros at cruising speed. This does not stand up to any serious analysis. Why be one of the only European states to have chosen to transpose this directive in a minimalist way? What logical explanation do you give for this? How do you justify the large gap between minimum transposition and maximum budgetary effect? This is absolutely not credible. In the same way, why had the deductibility of permanently taxed income increased to 100%, whereas it was set at 95%? This 5% differential may seem small. However, the size of the amounts deducted by some companies in BEL 20 is known in this measure, and the choice is not economically justified, neither in terms of increased employment nor in terms of fair tax contributions. It's a gift you're making. What is the economic relevance of tax consolidation? What will its cost be? Again, we play with matches. We are announced a cost of 500 million euros. Is it justified in terms of economic efficiency? Will it be controlled? You are budget adventurers, as I said last week, as part of the budget analysis. And this not to mention the possibilities of bypassing the removal of notional interest, and the replacement of this removal by deductibility of new own funds, by a fictitious decrease in equity in 2017 and an increase in 2018, despite the rule of the average of the last five years. My main and final argument, after the one concerning the fact that SMEs are not the real beneficiaries of your measure and that large companies will not really be involved, is that relating to budgetary balance. The Chairman of the Finance Committee will probably remind me that the National Bank has validated your calculations. While I have a great deal of respect for this institution, I still have a capacity for reading, analysis and criticism, which I think is important in democracy. We do not believe, Mr Minister, in the budgetary balance of this reform. I would even say more: it is an intellectual deception.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u127	Minister, I am really asking you to take the time to have the paintings done again. I come back to SMEs because this is a fundamental issue. If the comparison term is no longer the taxable income of the business, but the tax result, it is important to know that the latter exists before the deduction is charged. In other words, the tax result is necessarily always higher than the taxable income. Today, however, in the law, the executive's remuneration is compared with the company's taxable income to determine whether or not the reduced rate is allowed. In the bill before us, the term "comparative" is no longer taxable income; but the tax result is always higher, by definition, than taxable income, since it is obtained by subtracting the result of the business from a series of deductions. I am therefore certain that the tables you have provided do not take into account the bill we are debating here. In doing so, it would be appropriate to have simulations carried out in a timely manner. You'll tell me that it's hard to know what the difference is between a taxable income and a business income before deduction. That's right. However, you may be able to take a number of typical cases considered reasonable to see whether or not there is a negative impact on SMEs. In my view, your tables do not provide a sufficient basis for discussion and evaluation as a result of the amendment of the legislation. In other words, you have submitted tables that do not match the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u128	Mr Laaouej, I would nevertheless like to make it clear that this reform does not alter the method of calculation. We are talking about the tax result before deducting the CEO's remuneration, precisely to determine the amount of it. The one on which the tax is due, therefore the tax result, is determined after deduction of this remuneration. This was already the case in the system in force so far and is maintained in the new system. It is therefore incorrect to claim that the method of calculation has changed. That's not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u129	Minister, you're talking to me about deducting the officer's income, but it's an accounting transaction. Yes, of course! Neither the tax result nor the taxable income of the business includes this remuneration. No one says that. You are told that there is a difference between taxable income and the "first transaction" result in the calculation of corporate tax. Between the two take place the deductions. Therefore, taxable income is always lower than the "first transaction" result. This means that you lowered your first comparison term. When I take back the tables that you provided to us, I find that your calculations relate to the pre-tax profit – therefore, the taxable profit. This is not what the bill is talking about, because it is interested in the result of the taxable period. This is in accordance with the definition in article 74 of the implementing decree of the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u130	But the paintings you have before you, Mr. Laaouej, clearly show that the same principle of calculation is used as is currently used.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u131	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u132	We're not changing the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u133	Yes, you've changed it. If you take section 215 as it currently exists, it says: "taxable income of the business". In your bill, it becomes: "result of the taxable period". These are not the same notions, minister. Since the terms of comparison are different, the calculations are no longer the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u134	No, I disagree. We don't change the method of calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u135	That's not the way to calculate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u136	We won't agree with you. I therefore give the floor to Mr Gilkinet to conclude his statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u137	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u138	Mr Van Biesen, Mr Gilkinet will conclude. The Minister has just responded to Mr Laaouej. It's okay!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u139	Mr President, this is typically a discussion that should have taken place in committee under good conditions in the context of a first or second reading. I would like to take this opportunity, at this stage, to apologize to the majority of the House and to thank the translators and the services who have had to work this week under absolutely unspeakable conditions so that this text can be voted on. Mr. Van Biesen, do you mean anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u140	Mr Gilkinet, I give the floor! But I'm not sure it amuses everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u141	Mr Frédéric, as President, you must give the floor if people are to ask for it. Is there a difference between current and future tax practices? The Minister clearly replied no to that. I want this to be very clear in the report, because that is very important for the accounting world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u142	Mr Van Biesen, I think everything that is said in this House is written word for word. There is no need to insist on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u143	Everyone has the text of the bill. Many of you have access to the Internet, including the Fisconetplus website, on which you can find the Income Tax Code. I invite you to compare the current article 215 of the Income Tax Code, which refers to "taxable income", with article 217, which refers to "the result of the taxable period". It's not the same thing. I told you in committee to be careful. A word in taxation can have great implications. I didn't say it at random. I was talking about deductible dividends. Here, I'm talking about the reduced rate. You've changed the notions. It's not the same thing anymore. I want you to do the legistical check, give you time to compare well. You're talking about "result of the taxable period". You have deleted the reference to the concept of "taxable income".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u144	Mr President, I hear the minister saying, "Nothing changes." I hear Mr. Laaouej saying, "It's different."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u145	We heard him, too, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u146	Mr President, if you will allow me to continue without being cut off: I refer to the texts. In the new text, I see "equal to or greater than the corporation's taxable income" and in the old text, "equal or higher..." (...): No, it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u147	It's the other way around.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u148	Are you done, Mr. Van Hees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u149	I ask the minister if there is a change.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u150	That was already the question that Mr. Laaouej had asked. He's already answered it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u151	No, no! Calm down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u152	Calm down? It is you who do not find yourself in your reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u153	I ask the minister if there is a difference between the articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u154	We understand that. Is there a difference, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u155	No, that's not my question! Excuse me, I can still express what I want to express.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u156	Yes, express yourself clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u157	I ask the minister if there is a difference, which is the reason for the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u158	I repeat, firstly, that there is no change in the calculation, that the result remains the same. Secondly, I refer, Mr Laaouej, to the explanatory memorandum on page 99, where this is well explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u159	Change the word, then!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u160	No. The result remains the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u161	No, I don't. A taxable period result is not taxable income. In between, there are deduction items. I'm sorry, but it's the ABC of taxation. You've done a messed-up job. That's not acceptable. We have to recognize him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u162	Non!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u163	That will be the conclusion of this exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u164	Obstinacy, division, improvisation, contempt! A profit for SMEs that is not the one you are announcing, a contribution from large companies that is not the one you are announcing and a budgetary result that is not there. It's a mathematical trick! You're removing niches, but not all of them. You are creating new ones: RTD, tax consolidation for businesses. You finance your reform with virtual savings, those relating to notional interests. When the rates were higher, much faster thought would have had to be given to the abolition of the system and its fundamental reform. And you're trying to make it look like – even to Mr. Van Rompuy, the chairman of the Finance Committee, the guarantor of this state's budgetary orthodoxy – that the result will be zero, that the expenditure will be balanced with the new revenue. This is absolutely not credible and I would be tempted to believe that this is the real agenda of this government or at least of some parts of this Parliament – Mr. Van Biesen agrees with me. This is really problematic in the budgetary situation that we are experiencing after making such a significant contribution to our fellow citizens, after having called into question the means of investment of the federal state. That is why, unfortunately, we will not be able to support a reform which we called for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u165	Mr President, I see that your patience has limits and will therefore try to be synthetic so as not to overextend the debate which the chairman of the committee hoped to complete at around 1 p.m. It is already a little later and we are not yet at the end. So I'm gonna try to get to the essentials.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u166	Five speakers are still planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u167	This moment was very anticipated for me! To be able to discuss a proposal for corporate tax reform, we have long been aspired to it. The cdH group, from the beginning of this legislature, tabled a text that I co-signed with Benoît Lutgen and Catherine Fonck. To my knowledge, this is the only text of parliamentary origin attached to the discussion, which is a sign of our willingness to reform corporate tax, which we saw well in the previous campaign in 2014, that it had reached its limits and that it had become untenable. Our tax reform, which was being carried out in this bill, was very clearly aimed at putting an end to an increasingly obvious anomaly, that is, the gap between corporate tax revenues below the amount of deductions granted to those same companies. There was therefore a growing divergence between the nominal rate and the rate actually paid by enterprises. We considered this complexity to be detrimental to the legibility of the tax system, to our competitiveness and to discrimination between companies. The proposal we had put forward aimed at reducing the tax rate to reach the European averages because we have always considered that our taxation should be integrated into a European approach. It could no longer be possible to suffer this handicap compared to the European average rate. We also proposed, in the text attached to the one we are looking at, to reduce the tax rate for SMEs to 20% up to EUR 150 000 of taxable income. Our proposal also contained mechanisms to stimulate business investment and innovation. Finally, we proposed the deletion of the risk capital deduction: notional interest. That is to say, we were not very far from what is being examined today. The philosophy behind this removal of the mechanism of notional interests and this reduction in the rate of corporate tax was to make taxation more legible and fairer, to remove tax niches and to avoid the multiplication of specific mechanisms that only the most experienced or the best advised will be able to take full advantage of. We must stop adding layers to the tax lasagna. This creates distortions, threshold effects, and windfall effects that encourage taxpayers to engage in financial and tax shopping strategies. Efficiency also depends on the transparency of the rule. The facial rate must be close to the actual rate. Through this proposal for tax reform, we also intended to put an end to a mechanism that had proved extraordinarily costly, that of notional interests. At the time of the presentation of this scheme – which, unless I am mistaken, is due to the then Minister of Finance, Didier Reynders – we were told a cost of between 400 and 500 million euros. Over time, the cost has risen to several billion euros, to a maximum of 6 billion, indicating that there was a failure to meet a budgetary commitment, to integrate and to ensure the necessary budgetary neutrality. I say this because it is on the basis of this experience that we say – in the speech, we join, but in reality, it is something else – that tax reform must now be imposed with true budgetary neutrality. Another element that we really wanted to change structurally is the fact that notional interests mainly benefited large companies. Studies have shown this on several occasions, including studies by the National Bank. The tax advantage of notional interests only benefited small and medium-sized enterprises up to just over 20% of the total cost. Other studies, such as those carried out by the University of Namur, also showed that in view of the geographical distribution of the tax advantage of notional interests, it was well understood that this advantage was mainly located in the head of large enterprises and not in the head of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, we know that it is small and medium-sized enterprises that make up the socio-economic fabric of our regions, particularly in the Walloon Region. Since they did not benefit from most of these notional interests, it seemed important to us to change the system in order to put in place a more advantageous mechanism for job creation. Finally, notional interests also had this characteristic of costing very much, without actually creating jobs, even if they had other advantages or objectives such as strengthening the capitalization of enterprises. Therefore, we want to analyse the reform that you are proposing on the basis of these two criteria. Is there real budgetary neutrality? Is there a preferential advantage in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises? We were determined to work towards corporate tax reform. We were encouraged later by reports that were added to our analyses. They have shown that the international environment is now prompting changes in the tax niche system. The implementation of the BEPS Action Plan and the European Commission's proposals have called into question the relevance of preferential schemes or tax niches. There was a need to examine new, more appropriate scenarios. For Belgium, this meant reconsidering the relevance of a strategy where tax competitiveness is based on preferential schemes rather than on a relatively attractive nominal rate. That's what the Supreme Council of Finance said in 2016. Our impatience to act was therefore great, beyond the proposals and reform intentions that the Minister had expressed. We wanted to look at a text to vote on it. That is why, at no time, we have used dilatory manoeuvres to delay the parliamentary process. We did not obstruct the government's proposal and its translation into a bill. We have even agreed, no later than yesterday, to vote for urgency, so as not to further penalise the economic world. I must confide in you: I was even prepared, on a personal basis, to plead with my colleagues that we should vote for corporate tax reform while in opposition. However, frankly, after analyzing the text that you tabled on Parliament's table, after hearing the various speakers, and after analyzing the documents, we cannot reasonably approve of your corporate tax reform. Why? For two or even three reasons. The first is this so-called budgetary neutrality. By hearing the views of the majority, it is clear that this neutrality is of varying geometry. If we look at the main sources of funding for your reform, we can only imagine doubts about the reliability of your estimates. The removal or adjustment of notional interests would bring about more than 40% of the total funding of the reform. This is an amount of two billion out of the five that represent the volume of the reform. Honestly, the assumptions you are working on are justified by certain elements. But scalded cat fears cold water. As a result of experience at the time of the introduction of notional interests, we are wary of forecasts based on assumptions about interest rates. We are, at the very least, very worried. The second element which leads to extreme caution is the transposition of the ATAD directive. We've talked a lot about it. On the basis of a macro estimate, you estimate that this could raise €1.2 billion. You finally agreed to anticipate somewhat the implementation of this directive. Unfortunately, on this directive as on many others, you have a somewhat chilly approach, not accepting to integrate it entirely, to apply it fully but on the contrary, a little à la carte with loopholes that have already been discussed. I'm not going back, but there's a missed opportunity here again. The third most important element on which your financing is based is the return on the basket, to use the formula, a return that you estimate at more than 500 million euros. There is also something that is not guaranteed since all the organizations that have been asked to examine your proposals have considered either that certain assumptions were plausible – this is the case with the National Bank – or, on the contrary, that there were really great concerns. I am thinking in particular of the Court of Auditors, which, in its report, revealed a number of difficulties: the fact that the data on which your calculations are based were outdated, the fact that changes in corporate behaviour could hardly be integrated, and the fact that the analysis carried out by the FPS Finances is a so-called static and non-dynamic analysis. All this has led the Court of Auditors to be particularly dubious. The European Commission itself has considered this to be a risk factor in the evolution of our public finances. There is therefore a real concern with regard to budgetary neutrality, especially since, Mr Minister, the debates in committee have not reassured me of your willingness to ensure that this mechanism is properly monitored. You've been interrogated several times. Mr Laaouej has done so earlier, and so far we have never heard a somewhat reliable answer, a little concrete, about the monitoring mechanism that you are going to put in place, I hope, to follow up on this corporate tax reform. We're looking forward to your response. So far, in any case, nothing has been heard about it. The experience we have had with the tax shift, honestly, does not encourage us to trust because, as we know, the tax shift is not fully funded at present, and therefore there is a real risk that this new tax reform will not be funded either unless you manage to put in place a mechanism that effectively ensures that the objectives will be achieved. At this stage, I do not consider that to be the case. The second criterion, which leads us to consider that the account is not there and that this reform cannot be approved, is this problem of winners and losers. On several occasions, we asked you who could benefit from this reform. You replied that it was difficult to answer this question and that it depended on the company profile, etc. Honestly, that answer is not satisfactory. It cannot be imagined for a single second that the FPS Finances cannot produce real, quantified, proven analyses of the gains that different categories of enterprises can gain from such a reform. You have not been able to show us that SMEs could actually win out of this reform. As the demonstration has not been made, we are obliged to consider that the reform will not bring what SMEs expected. To convince yourself of this, simply read the report of the National Bank, to which you regularly refer. On this issue, it is quite explicit and adheres to a philosophy that you cannot express clearly, but it states that "the preferential treatment of SMEs must be reassessed". I do not entirely agree with the wording. To date, particularly on the basis of the mechanism of notional interests, I consider that there is no preferential treatment of SMEs, but one should. This development, which is desirable to us, the National Bank wants to counteract it, because it considers that it is necessary to be extremely careful with regard to the encouragement given to SMEs. There is therefore an underlying preference for large enterprises, which are known to benefit as much as possible from the current regime. Beyond this discrimination between large companies and SMEs, it must be noted that yesterday, at the hearing of the Union of the Middle Classes, we had the demonstration that discrimination was present in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises in Walloon and Brussels. It is not for the pleasure of entering into a Community conflict to find, on the basis of figures provided by the UCM and which have not been contested, that indeed the average income of entrepreneurs is not equivalent in the north and south of the country and that this is an objective difference; the average of the UCM calculations for entrepreneurs is EUR 35 000 per year. It is known that the figures are higher in the north of the country, which led UNIZO not to dispute the raising of this minimum threshold. But there is clearly a discrimination that the Francophone economic fabric will suffer. I really regret that this finding could not be heard by all the parties of the majority, and in particular by the French-speaking party which is supposed to represent the interests of Walloon and Brussels-based companies. On the contrary, it was found that a number of mechanisms were being put in place. I am thinking in particular of the increase in the deduction of RTD. Mechanisms are in place to facilitate tax optimisation in the head of large companies. So there is really an imbalance that seems unacceptable to us and which leads me to consider that the gift you present to SMEs is in fact a poisoned gift; the UCM has not been mistaken. Secondly, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is one last element which, frankly, makes it impossible for us to approve this reform: the method used. You will all agree that within this parliamentary body, the method has been chaotic, rocky. I do not have long parliamentary experience, but I have the impression that the oldest of us have rarely experienced such a parliamentary process. The timing was reduced to a strict minimum simply because the government delayed tabling its texts. Amendments to its own texts have been tabled by the government. Subsequent texts were also announced to correct the texts submitted. Finally, the texts were taken up by the group leaders, wondering whether they had read the texts they assumed since they were not even in committee to present them, even though they were supposed to be the bearers of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u168	(…)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u169	Mrs Fonck, Mr Dispa has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u170	In any case, it is clear that group leaders will be seen as the fathers in charge of this reform and of all its contents, including, for example, the limitation of the possibilities of tax deduction for provisions for risks and charges. This is one example among others that will impact small and medium-sized enterprises that may not yet be fully aware of, but will eventually find out when transparency emerges. Objectively, the drafting of the text was chaotic and rocky. And then frankly, how not to denounce the absence of dialogue. I am not going to use the term 'concertation' since the chairman of the Finance Committee has pointed out that social consultation cannot, as such, be applied to tax reform. However, in the absence of social dialogue, at least mechanisms for dialogue should have been put in place. In fact, Mr Finance Minister, you yourself said in the preamble to your speech to defend reform in committee that the most important thing is the climate of trust. You said that, in economic terms, what is important is to create a climate of trust and to provide guarantees, in particular, on legal certainty and tax stability, to businesses. Honestly, Thursday afternoon, there was no feeling that there was a great climate of trust between the Minister of Finance and a player as important as the UCM. On the contrary, we realized that there had been no dialogue. Now, you're telling us that emails have been exchanged, that the reform was on your firm's website. I don't think that's what I call a dialogue. I would not like to repeat myself, but when we were in the Finance Committee to hear the UCM, the President of the House paid tribute to Philippe Maystadt. He stressed, as I did on the day of his death, the listening qualities and decision-making abilities of this statesman. He mentioned the title of a book of interviews that he published, Listen and then decide. It is a method of governance that I think is smart and that corresponds fairly well to our country's traditions. Although there is no social dialogue in tax matters, upstream dialogue with actors on the ground is always preferable. I told the Prime Minister here that I was a little offended, which I'm sorry about, that I felt he was doing the opposite. Deciding and then listening is what we had the brilliant demonstration this week, since you decided to reform it by refusing to change it. And then in extremis, you agreed to listen to the UCM, but without hearing it and giving a real follow-up to the problems raised. Listen and then decide: you do the opposite. Earlier, Mr. Piedboeuf stated that he was going to listen to the UCM. That's good, and I'm glad. Listen to the UCM. However, I honestly believe that this dialogue should have been established earlier, so that misunderstandings could have been dispelled. We might have been able here, not to build consensus, but to convince ourselves of our ability to respond, through corporate tax reform, to the problems of the country's economic actors, in particular representatives of SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u171	On the issue of consultation, the minister had asked for the floor, but that is no longer the case. Mr Piedboeuf, on the other hand, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u172	Mr President, I simply wanted to react to Mr Dispa's remarks. We are constantly on the ground, whether with the UCM, the Chambers of Commerce, associations, etc. All year round, we receive messages and comments. So we're always listening. As far as the reform of ISOC is concerned, and as I said earlier, while the information has been disseminated for months and months, about ten days ago we received an e-mail from the UCM, which drew our attention only to three aspects. I am sorry to repeat myself, but there have been consultations and we will continue them. When Mr.Nyst defended an option and tables by refraining, in particular, from referring to the 50/50 rule, this led to misunderstandings. I told him we were called to see each other again and we'll see each other again. The minister has already proposed that I come to the province of Luxembourg to meet the financial sector and the Chamber of Commerce to explain the reform. We are therefore going to develop all the necessary outreach, because there are so many aspects of this reform that need to be clarified. If measures are not included, we will take our pilgrim stick to that effect. A permanent monitoring was mentioned earlier. It is clear that it will be organised both in budgetary terms and in terms of the effectiveness of the provisions. When we have delivered this analysis - we discussed it again with Mr Van Biesen a few moments ago - if it appears that adjustments are necessary, we will make them. Only, to be able to adjust, it is first necessary to undertake reforms. We set foot in the door and have therefore launched reforms. It's fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u173	I give the floor to Mr Dispa. Meanwhile, the president is back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u174	I finish, gentlemen, the President and the Vice-President. Mr Piedboeuf's words are the perfect illustration of what I said. I proposed a method inspired by Mr Philippe Maystadt: listen and then decide. You're doing exactly the opposite! You decide and then you listen. "We'll talk to each other," you said! It is a method which I do not think is right and which puts us in difficulty today to assess the real impact of the proposed measures, particularly on Walloon SMEs. If you have heard correctly, a start of dialogue or listening started yesterday afternoon. The president of the UCM did not speak on his own behalf but on behalf of the entrepreneurs he represented: he expressed an insistent request to correct certain aspects of the reform. That is why an amendment has been tabled, co-signed by several parties who have heard this message and who are willing to correct, in the interests of Walloon and Brussels SMEs, the problem of minimum remuneration, the 10% contribution in the case of remuneration of less than 36 000 euros, the double penalty that you impose on them and also the personal discount on the reduction of capital. These are the reasonable requests made. An amendment will be put to the vote. If you have heard what the UCM has to say, you only have to vote for it. You did not co-sign the amendment, but you can still vote on it. If you do not, you will have demonstrated that this reform is a missed appointment for Brussels and Walloon SMEs. That is why, for our part, we will not vote for your text. We will abstain because we are convinced that the status quo is not a good solution. We need a good reform on this point, and then we can join. But not this reform, not with its cost, not with the effect it will have at the expense of SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u175	Mr President, I wanted to add one point which I believe is essential to what my colleague Georges Gilkinet has already explained in detail and in a very relevant way. There are several elements that cause us to have major concerns about this piece of legislation. I do not go back to what has been brilliantly demonstrated by Georges Gilkinet on the overall financing of the reform. I wanted to dwell for a moment on the target that we have missed in this text. That's a real regret. We would have liked to have taken part in a major reform of taxation, corporate tax with particular attention and encouragement for SMEs and self-employed people. As I said earlier, two categories of SMEs must be encouraged, according to the ecological vision. These are the smallest structures, between 1 and 4 people, which now account for between 80 and 85% of the 900,000 SMEs in Belgium. These are very fragile structures of up to four people, for which 1 000 euros or 500 euros difference, imprecise on a gross salary, on an equation can make a cash difference but also a difference in the sustainability of business and activity. For us, this category is the one that should be targeted as a priority by this type of measure. That is why we are concerned about the debate we had yesterday with the leaders of the UCM. For a TPE that employs one or two people, your baker, butcher, gardener, do you think it's easy to increase from 35,000 to 45,000 euros per year? Is this done in a slamming of fingers? There are order books to fill in, an economic context. All this is particularly complicated, especially for those companies that employ a small number of employees. Yet it is the vast majority of the entrepreneurial structure of this country: Flanders, Brussels, Wallonia. There may be some differences in pay, I don't disagree, but it's the same structure. The second target audience that is fundamental to us in an entrepreneurial and entrepreneurship policy is that of starters: those who start their business, who, by definition, are alone, or perhaps two or three, but this is usually no more. All policies, and in particular tax policy, really need to be targeted at these audiences. Think here that those who start up in this type of business do it for tax reasons! Think that those who engage in entrepreneurship do so in order to pay perhaps even a few thousand euros a month, but that is often not the case. I think – and many colleagues are familiar with the business world – that this is not the case. The UCM told us that often they pay less. We even have wages that sometimes range from 500 to 1,000 euros gross per month because they want to invest as much as possible in their business. With a measure that increases the threshold from 35,000 to 45,000 euros, they are likely to be disadvantaged. For us, it is against everything we carry in terms of political vision with regard to such audiences and the fact of encouraging them fiscally. I repeat again what has been said by my group on many occasions for many years: tax reform is absolutely necessary in this country, it is a tax justice measure in favour of SMEs, TPEs and independents in relation to a whole series of tax deductions, but it is essential that these measures focus primarily on small structures and especially starters, those who are embarking on an entrepreneurial project. At this level, apart from everything that has already been explained by my colleague Georges Gilkinet, we have enormous fears! We regret it. We will be able to support the articles that go towards a reduction, towards a tax incentive, but not the articles on compensatory measures in the current state of the debate, completely incomplete in our view. I remember the words of my colleagues Piedboeuf and Van Biesen who said: "We do indeed want to review these conditions, if necessary, and continue the debate." I hope that we can take you to the word in twelve months' time, when we make the assessment. We will see if it is effective for these companies that we target, in a vision of encouraging entrepreneurship and the development of activities in our regions. We have the greatest fears. We don't think so. But let's evaluate it together in twelve months. And above all, let us change the rules if we notice that they are not effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u176	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to the political conditions that led to the consideration of this bill. I'd rather stop at its content. I will make analyses of them, perhaps more technical, but I will also appreciate the political orientations behind them and the political choices that have been made to the detriment of certain sectors of activity. While some of the measures contained in the bill (since it has been transformed) deserve support, such as the reduction of the nominal rate – which was the subject of a proposal from my group – others cannot be validly supported. Firstly, with regard to the nominal rate of corporate tax, the eventual abolition of the supplementary crisis contribution. My group supports this reduction in the nominal rate, which will take place in two phases. In the long run, the total nominal rate will therefore be increased to 25 per cent for large enterprises. The reduced rate per 100 000 euros will be 20%. But as already mentioned, although the budgetary impact of such a reform is not negligible (over EUR 4,766 million), the desire to reduce the tax rate on corporate profits is a necessary measure, subject to verification of its budgetary neutrality. With regard to the reduced rate for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be set at 20% on the first tranche of EUR 100 000, the additional crisis contribution will also be abolished. These are two favourable measures. However, we also note that the conditions for access to this reduced rate of 20% have been changed. It is now apparent that in order to benefit from this rate, small and medium-sized enterprises will have to grant a minimum remuneration to their manager of at least 45 000 euros, instead of the 36 000 euros currently granted by the tax legislation. This measure is highly critical. In this regard, I would like to point out two points of criticism. Firstly, according to the information provided at the hearing of UCM representatives in the Finance Committee, the median remuneration of company managers in the Brussels Region and the Walloon Region is €30,540 per year. The average remuneration is just under 35,000 euros per year. The amount of 36 000 euros set by the legislation in force to benefit from the reduced rate therefore corresponds more to the reality of the figures than that of 45 000 euros retained in your reform. This information allows me to highlight one important point: the UCM represents almost 100 000 independents and nearly 32 000 companies located in Brussels and Wallonia. Therefore, I find it quite inappropriate that some members of the majority, who want to be close to the world of SMEs, dare to call the main French-speaking employers' organization a communist. I know that some in this House may be flattered, but it seems to me that it is totally indecent. Secondly, it cannot be denied that many small and medium-sized enterprises are going through or are going through financial and economic difficulties. They will therefore not be able to pay a remuneration of this magnitude, the minimum of which is set at EUR 45 000. These companies will not be eligible for the reduced tax rate. In other words, in addition to going through financial difficulties, they will be even harder taxed if they realize a profit. That is why my group has tabled an amendment aimed at maintaining – not even amending – the current remuneration threshold of EUR 36 000 per year, so that SMEs can benefit from the reduced tax rate under the conditions currently in force. The majority therefore intends to introduce a separate social contribution for companies which do not allocate a minimum remuneration of 45 000 euros to their managers. The rate of this separate contribution will be set at 5% of the taxable base during the first phase. It will be increased to 10 per cent in the second phase of the reform. Although this reassessment or tax is not applicable to small and medium-sized enterprises during the first four taxable periods from the date of their incorporation, it cannot be denied that many companies will one day experience or experience a difficult situation. The latter cannot therefore consider, at some point in their existence, paying a minimum remuneration of 45,000 euros to their leaders. Therefore, such a separate contribution amount should not be withheld. I'll take an example. A small company has a taxable base of €60,000 for the 2021 tax year (income 2020). She does not pay her manager for a variety of reasons and agrees to honour the penalty for lack of pay. In addition to being taxed 25 % of its profits, since it cannot claim the reduced rate of 20 %, it will also be charged a separate contribution of 4,500 euros. In other words, regardless of the numerical examples and other simulations, you will not disagree, Minister, that companies and especially SMEs will inevitably be prejudiced by your reform, will be penalized in terms of economic activity. If Mr Piedboeuf is listening, he can only support the amendment which aims to remove this separate contribution which has no serious economic objective, on the contrary, since it is a penalisation of the middle classes. Allow me to dwell for a moment on the government's reform of the capital reduction. The current regime provides that, where social capital is not constituted solely by paid-up capital, commonly referred to as "good capital", a reduction in capital may be made only on the paid-up capital. There was therefore freedom of choice in the imputation of the reduction of capital. In other words, in the past, the totality of the capital reduction could be attributed to the actual paid-up capital without being taxed. The proposed reform provides that, from now on, freedom of choice in the imputation of the capital reduction will no longer be allowed. In addition, the company will have to charge the capital reduction on some of its taxed reserves. A capital reduction will therefore result in the allocation of a taxed dividend at the rate of 30%. This change will necessarily impact companies that have incorporated reserves into capital, but also companies that have distributable reserves. My party does not, as a matter of principle, oppose a reform of the reduction of capital, a technique often used by tax advisers to optimize the wealth of their customers. However, we have some reservations about the short-term impact on business behaviour. Indeed, it is not impossible for a number of companies to make a capital reduction again this year in order to benefit from the current advantageous tax system. If this is the case, the expected benefit of the reform in terms of revenue will obviously not be confirmed. I continue the analysis of the new measures and stop at the increase in the deduction of permanently taxed income from 95% to 100%. The government has therefore decided to grant a total deduction of definitively taxed income. If necessary, I would point out that this deduction of permanently taxed income or RTD tends to avoid double taxation or distribution of dividends, subject to certain conditions, of course, to acquisition or liquidation bonuses between several related companies. The amount of the deduction currently in force is set by the Income Tax Code at 95 per cent before deduction of the household allowance. The remaining 5% actually corresponds to flat-rate charges. According to information provided by the FPS Finances, the change in the RTD deduction regime will result in a tax revenue loss of some €80 million for 2018 alone. In our view, this is an additional tax advantage for large companies but above all for holding companies. We are therefore putting forward an amendment aimed at retaining the 95 % tax-deferred income deduction scheme, because such a measure will therefore bring about the maintenance of a recipe, a recipe which would be much more usefully used for the benefit of SMEs, in the context of the amendments that we have tabled, to make choices. Between favouring holding companies or supporting the activity of SMEs in Wallonia and Brussels as well as throughout the country, it is still preferable to support those who create jobs in our regions rather than tax support for holding companies. This is why the MR defaults in relation to a whole part of its electorate. I now turn to the abolition of taxation at the rate of 0.4% of capital gains on exempt shares of the large companies referred to in Article 217, 3° of the Income Tax Code. From now on, starting with the 2019 tax year, large corporations will no longer have to pay the 0.4% tax on capital gains on shares they realize. This change represents another tax gift to very large companies of nearly 60 million euros in cruise speed. In our view, it is in no way justified in view of the reduction in the nominal tax rate for large corporations to 25%. We therefore submit an amendment to maintain this marginal tax rate. As far as the reform of notional interests is concerned, you are certainly taking a first step. It was indeed time to review this mechanism, which was justified at a time, but which no longer meets the current economic context. However, you keep a deduction for risk capital, but it will only be applicable on additional risk capital compared to the average of previous years. It is therefore a question of what is called notional interests in incremental capital. Our group supports the desire to reform this fiscal niche. However, it would have been more logical to delete it altogether, for there is no need to maintain it. This would have been a sign of greater budgetary success, as it no longer corresponds to current economic developments. I shall end with a balanced budget. Unfortunately, I fear that the history of the collapse of revenues will be confirmed, without it being properly compensated. Of course, the National Bank has given a favourable opinion on the budgetary neutrality of the reform, although it is very cautious in its conclusions. Moreover, it is not the only body that has analysed the budgetary consequences of the reform, since other actors have expressed clear reservations. This is particularly evident from the hearing of the representative of the European Commission, who expressed some of his fears. I am thinking in this way of his considerations regarding the increase in advance payments. The European Commission has not failed to observe that some simulations are based on obsolete revenues. In this regard, it cites the income from the reform of notional interests and adds that its estimates remain conservative and still relatively high with regard to tax revenues. In short, in her view, there is a risk that the operation will not be financially neutral. Similarly, the Court of Auditors considered that it did not have the information necessary to assess the budgetary neutrality of your reform. It was able to estimate the revenue resulting from the gradual reduction in the deduction of notional interest which, I would remind you, must, in the long run, earn more than €2.3 billion in tax revenue, i.e. almost half of the total cost of the reform. However, it is important to note that the FPS Finance calculations are based on figures from the 2015 tax year, income generated in 2014, or three years ago. I do not think that in this case these data are reliable to assess the budgetary compensation. I will conclude by quoting the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the financing of the corporate tax reform: "The FPS Finances has drawn up its calculation note in an unchanged environment, without taking into account the return effects or changes in the behaviour of companies." We already know that the tax shift is far from being offset in budgetary terms. I fear that with this reform, there will be other budget gaps. I therefore believe that this operation, while meeting certain laudable objectives, nevertheless presents approximations which could have a serious impact on the future of public finances. I believe that the tax reform of corporate tax should be deepened by removing further tax niches, which was not the will of the majority. As a result, we will not be able to support the project as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u177	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is actually a good story. We started with a summer chord, concluded in Tomorrowland, although my colleague yesterday said it looked more like Rimpelrock. After the summer chord came the fall bickering. Then people think it will be a winter agreement, but it became a winter agreement. Indeed, only the reform of corporation tax is on the table here as a Christmas present on this second day of winter. The question is what the Spring Agreement will mean. Will the remaining parts, such as the securities tax and the untaxed additional 500 euros be added? That remains, of course, an open question. I have the impression that the government was a little jealous of Vivaldi, who also had its four seasons. The government also wanted a new agreement for every time of year, at least a re-examined agreement. Although I am absolutely not a fan of classical music, I have to say that the composition "The Four Seasons" of Vivaldi sounds a bit better than the government's four seasons because in this latter one there are a lot of false notes. I'm getting to the point. We started with a bill of about 1 400 pages that was almost unrealisable. Today we have come to a legislative proposal signed by the four leaders of the political groups, of which no one was present yesterday in the Finance Committee. I also regret this for the majority of my fellow Members who had to ignore it. So we could not get an explanation because the signatories were not present. However, the Minister was able to answer the questions. It is therefore the reform of corporation tax that is now in the pipeline. This reform is indeed much needed, and we fully support it. There was even an agreement, across the borders of opposition and majority, that this reform should be implemented. There are two important aspects to a corporate tax reform. First of all, she has to be honest. Small or large, everyone must be operated in the same way. There should be no exceptions and no major differentiations. Secondly, such a major reform as it is announced here must be accompanied by simplification of taxation. In this respect, however, we are absolutely not heroic. I am not convinced that both aspects, fairness and simplification, are fully justified. This may have a lot to do with the way in which a legislative proposal has finally been drawn up. Minister, you would have done better in advance and allowed the members of the committee to hold such discussions, even if only on the basis of provisional texts. It would have been nice if you had involved Parliament in your contacts with the social partners, such as UNIZO, VBO and others. That is also a very typical thing, Minister, because you have never been a Member of Parliament. Ministers who once sat in Parliament tend to have more of the feeling of involving Members of Parliament, especially than the majority, in such legislative texts. It wouldn't have been a bad thing if we had all discussed this together in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u178	Mr President, the Minister may not have been a Member of Parliament, but he is doing a great job. The only thing I am sorry about is that we are having this kind of debate, because some Members of Parliament will never be ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u179	That may be the case for both of us, Mr Van de Velde. I don't pretend to be a minister either, far from it. Anyway, I can only make that determination. So it might not have been so bad if Parliament had been involved and we could have had a more thorough debate. Mr Van de Velde, you say that we have had a thorough debate here. They were nightly debates and they could have been a bit more thorough. For example, Mr Laaouej must ask today on the basis of which the minimum benefits will be calculated, since the terminology used in the two texts differs. One might argue that the same thing is meant, but a tax reduction and a tax deduction are not the same either, nor are tax avoidance and tax evasion the same. When we talk about taxation, it's all about nuances, we know that all too well. So it is not bad at all to look at this in detail, and I too would like a clear answer to the question of whether the calculation of the text does not involve a change in its literal interpretation. That is, of course, the objective of the second reading. Fortunately, the poor secretaries of the Finance Committee were assisted by secretaries from other committees, but in this situation they too cannot guarantee that everything goes smoothly and the reports are perfectly in order. In addition, they would have been able to make the legal corrections that might have been necessary. However, legal corrections have not been considered at all, because there were no proposals. Yesterday there was the hearing with UCM. I do not discuss whether or not there were contacts and how. In any case, the cabinet sent emails to UCM. I also admit that the calculations proposed to us do not contain all the nuances. That's true. We have received a large number of figures from you, for which we thank you. However, those were figs after Easter. It would have been much more interesting if you had provided us with the detailed calculations and examples at the start of the discussion. You could have supported your claim that the reform is for the benefit of SMEs with figures and examples. Given the limited time available, we could not verify that. Yesterday, after the hearing, it became clear that even this reform would be a Community problem. The increase in the minimum benefit from 36 000 to 45 000 debt securities or the application of the 50/50 rule, if more convenient, is not problematic for Flemish SMEs, but it is problematic for Walloon and Brussels SMEs. It is therefore incorrect to claim that we do not have Community problems here. There is indeed a Community problem in this area. It is criticised that the UCM would not have responded. When the texts were not yet final, many accountants said that a fee of EUR 45 000 had to be paid to the managers of associated companies, which was a problem mainly on the Flemish side. Fortunately, this has been capped at EUR 75 000 and I am very satisfied with that solution. The increase in the minimum benefit from EUR 36 000 to EUR 45 000 was even a little high for Mr Van Biesen. It is true that the amount has not been indexed for a number of years. But if we had made that calculation, perhaps we would have reached a lower figure. You're saying that with that minimum benefit, you're countering the partnership agreement. There's nothing wrong with that either. However, we must realise that this is a way of slowing down people from entering a company and that others have already entered a company and are in that situation. I absolutely do not agree with the argument that it is only for tax reasons that we enter an bvba or any form of company. I have reservations about that. I therefore expect that this EUR 45 000 will probably be too high for some. What I have even more difficulty with than with this new threshold, because the problem of connected companies has already been solved to a large extent, is penalisation. I would find it fairer if you would just say that those who do not pay themselves the minimum know where they stand and pay the higher rate; but who, on the other hand, does not exceed the threshold or respects the distribution 50 %/50 % will receive the lower rate. I believe that for those who choose to pay the higher rate there should not be another separate attack. It's in there now, and I'm very sorry about that. I believe that the reactions of the UCM have a lot to do with the way this government has communicated. It is indeed a question of tax reform. A reform is a shift. That means, in the end, no tax cuts, unless they may not have been financed. This is a debate that can be pushed through for hours. Do you know when we'll know if she's been funded? In June 2019, when the accounts will be there. Then we will be able to say whether everything was finally financed or not. But that will not be a problem for this government, because then we will of course be in full electoral mode and it will pass silently whether it was funded or not. As far as communication is concerned, many small SMEs............................................................................................................................................................................................ Now it appears that there are indeed SMEs that have to pay less, but there are also SMEs that feel absolutely nothing about this. It is not only because the nominal rate is falling that they benefit so much from it, because there are also the accompanying or compensatory measures to bear the costs. The positive measures which favour SMEs in particular, for example in the field of innovation and research, have less impact on small enterprises, while the negative compensatory measures of the reform tend to have more effect. Given that such high expectations were created for SMEs regarding tax reductions, the reform will still be a cold shower for some. Overall, around 50% of SMEs will improve, while others will decline somewhat and others will continue to rattle on the spot. Is that all wrong? No, I did not say that, but there must be fair communication to the citizens. Another measure is the investment deduction, which is increased to 20%. That is certainly a good thing, but it is well known that this measure would come about. As a result, investments have been seriously reduced in recent months because everyone is waiting for 1 January 2018 to carry out their investment. The result is that the investments have now fallen somewhat silent and that one understandably waits until 1 January 2018. Another measure in the proposal, which I wonder whether it will not cause any problems in the future, is the story of the reduction in capital. To this day, a reduction in capital that has been made could be tax-free. From now on, it will no longer be fully duty-free. In part, 30% taxes will have to be paid. The same story applies here too. Just as investment is being postponed, we now notice and the accountants are now pointing out that anyone who can benefit from it is in the process of capital cuts. The new scheme on the notional interest deduction ensures that companies are now rapidly reducing capital and that the same capital comes back into the company in the following year. In this way, they will gain an increase in their capital, on which they will benefit from notional interest deductions. Minister, I do not know to what extent your services will carry out checks on this practice. The question is, after all, whether they have broken the law at all. Capital reductions are currently tax-free. So when they are implemented now, that is not a problem. The fact that someone is raising their capital in January 2018 is also something that no one can oppose. That is precisely what we want, namely that companies hold their capital and have a good basis. Of course, this includes the story of the theoretical-intelligence deduction. I know, however, that the notional interest deduction will be taken into account over a period of five years. Nevertheless, the question is whether there will be no shifts. It is also a pity that we have not had more time for this reform. If we had had more time and could sit with all the social partners, accountants and fiscalists, we could have made more adjustments or simplified legislation, which is now sometimes too complex. We could have cleaned things up nicely. Unfortunately, that time wasn't there. Mr. Secretary, I would have liked to have a promise from you anyway. After all, you have announced that you would like to reform personal taxation before the end of this legislature. This is not a problem for me at all, because that is a second reform that must be implemented urgently. The tax on persons must be simpler and fairer and there is a great deal of work to be done in this area, because in the last 50 years it has been even longer since the tax on persons was thoroughly reformed, so it would be a very nice exercise. It would be nice if you were to take steps in this area, in consultation with the Members of Parliament. That trajectory can be started for all I care in the new year. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a very merry Christmas. I address these wishes to everyone: all the services, especially the translators and secretaries, the employees of opposition and majority, and the staff of the cabinet, who have also been working hard in recent days. I would like to thank everyone, from all sides, for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I deplore the procedure. We are faced with a profound change in corporate tax that would have required time and thought, which should have allowed time for the Council of State's opinion and room for numerous hearings and discussion of each measure to determine its implications. The government came at the last minute with this reform, which demonstrates a mixture of contempt for Parliament and amateurism. I do not know what weighs most in the balance, but perhaps amateurism in relation to the blockage it has caused on the part of the opposition. In a second step, the procedure went down. I notice a rather incredible aspect: it is the extraordinary inventiveness that exists in this chamber to short-circuit the Rules of Parliament, since a bill has miraculously become a bill. I would also like to congratulate the authors of this bill, Messrs. Verherstraeten, Clarinval et Dewael. Congratulations for putting forward in one night a bill fundamentally reforming corporate tax! I am quite impressed, colleagues. A proposal for a law, which was distributed to us last night in the Finance Committee, will be voted in plenary session in a few moments! I did not know that it was possible to divert the Rules to this point in order to achieve such prowess. I do not know if the democratic debate is gaining much in these kinds of configurations, but in any case, we can see the feat. I didn't think it was possible. Even the Rules of Procedure clearly do not have much value in this Parliament. In substance, I think advertising is false. We have always been warned that corporate tax reform would be, on the one hand, a reduction in the tax rate. He's here. And on the other hand, an eradication of tax niches whose taxes have been congested for so many years. What do we see? We're far from it. Risk is primarily budgetary. We are promised budgetary neutrality, but what really is it? I would point out, however, that in 2005, when I voted for the notional interests, Minister Didier Reynders had said that it would cost half a billion euros but that it would be budget neutral. We know it cost up to six billion every year. Here, it is not half a billion that must be budget neutral but five billion! The bet is ten times higher at the start. So imagine if we have the same fiscal slip as we have with notional interests, how much we will be in financial difficulties and how much more this will justify the austerity policies of this government or its people. The risk is, of course, that half is financed by a reform of notional interests, but in the meantime, they have melted down due to lower rates. So almost everyone has doubts about this budgetary neutrality. This is the case with the Court of Auditors. This is the case with the European Commission and most experts in this area. So the government felt compelled to call the National Bank to the rescue, the one I call the "government propaganda agency", to say that this budgetary neutrality is assured. The report of the National Bank says a lot. He says a lot of good about this corporate tax reform. It is not surprising because it obviously corresponds to his ideology. On the other hand, what the report does not say is that budgetary neutrality is ensured. If there is one thing that is not found in his report, that is it! Other instances are very clear. The FEB, of which I have already been able to say how much it determined the policy of this government, says that, in the end, it is not serious if budgetary neutrality is not ensured. The editor of Trends wrote: "Let's be realistic, corporate tax reform is not fiscally neutral, not even in a dream. The wish of Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo (Open Vld) – "for me, this reform can cost the state money" – will become a reality. And that is also a good thing, because a budget-neutral operation would have little practical scope. (...) Anyone who thinks that multinationals will largely finance the decline in the ISOC rate still believes in Saint-Nicolas." Finally, Bart De Wever, the president of the Finance Minister's party, himself said – in one of the Trends – "Corporate tax reform is a reduction in taxes. What says 'low taxes' obviously says 'absence of budgetary neutrality', by definition." There's another counter-truth, it's that tax niches disappear. I think, for my part, that there are even those that are expanding, those that are precisely benefiting multinationals. RTD is increasing from 95 % to 100 %. It wasn't in the original project but the FEB told the government: "Say, coconuts, we want 100% and not 95%!" 100 per cent. Here, the FEB is served! It has its 100% RTD deduction. The same applies to capital gains on shares. The deduction is extended to 100%. In addition, they are offered the tax consolidation that risks being a new tax Frankenstein after notional interests. There are a few deductions that are removed but these are mainly measures that benefited SMEs such as the investment reserve, the additional staff deduction. Finally, these tax niches are largely maintained. We arrive at a third counter-truth. This reform would focus in particular on SMEs. The UCM said: "The ISOC reform as presented is inconvenient for SMEs." It is worth it to be referred to as the "Union of Communist Classes" by one of our colleagues in the majority. Tax niches are reviewed only at the margin and those that are reviewed are those that concern SMEs. On the rate, that's interesting. First, the reduced rate is less lowered than the full rate since it increases from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, so it is a 20 per cent decrease, while the full rate increases from 34 per cent to 25 per cent, which is a 26 per cent reduction. For SMEs, a decrease of 20%. For companies paying the full rate, 26%. Above all, what does this mean in euros? That, Mr. Minister of Finance, is something you have not addressed, unfortunately. We didn't get a detailed calculation. What is the tax impact of declining rates? You give an overall amount but you do not break down between a reduced rate and a full rate. What is the reduction in the reduced rate from 25 to 20 % in billions of euros? This is practically nothing. This means, above all, that there are not billions of euros. To find out, just go to the tax expenditure inventory. What do we see? That the current reduced rate represents a tax expenditure, thus a budgetary loss of EUR 222 million, for a reduced rate which will be about 10% less than the full rate. If it takes €222 million for a 10% reduction in the rate, it will take between €100 million and €150 million for the proposed 5% reduction. Finally, the fall in rates represents, on the one hand, 100 to 150 million euros for SMEs benefiting from the reduced rate, and almost 5 billion euros for all companies, the majority of which are large companies. This is the real difference in rates, not to mention tax niches. This is 100 million for SMEs benefiting from the reduced rate, and almost 5 billion for large companies. It is a fact that the minister, of course, has refrained from telling us. All the more so since the real problem of SMEs is not the rate of corporate tax, but to manage not to be in deficit and to achieve profits. In order to pay corporate taxes, profits must first be made, and many SMEs find it difficult to do so. Other negative elements for SMEs are the disappearance of the exemption for them, such as the investment reserve or the additional staff exemption. It's strange from a majority who say, "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" All day long. What tax deduction does it remove? The only one that specifically focuses on the number of jobs created. There is only one, and that is the one that the government chooses to remove. It's incredible hypocrisy! Some measures mainly benefit larger companies, such as equity gains, whose immunization is extended, except for additional conditions. These are the RTD conditions. And who will be touched by them? The majority of SMEs. In terms of the niche value added on shares, the advantage for large companies is extended and the advantage for SMEs is reduced. It's an example. Just the treatment of this niche already says a lot. There is the minimum remuneration - I will not go back to the controversy - and the capital cuts which also displease the UCM. A fourth counter-truth is to say that this reform is necessary for competitiveness. I have just explained that, for SMEs in particular, but even for any company, the problem is first of all to make a profit before knowing how much the latter will be taxed. It does not seem essential to me to know this rate in terms of competitiveness. Above all, there is the danger of a downward spiral, the government making tax "trumpism". It also does so on other materials, such as the environment, armaments, etc. "Trumpism" is hard to say! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u181	I would like to refer to a study by the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU), entitled Butter and Butter Money. How multinationals escape tax redistribution. It states that "if corporate tax reductions in OECD and other countries continue in the future, tax rates will be close to zero by the middle of the century". When I said that in committee, Mr Van de Velde spoke to indicate his approval: the corporate tax rate will be close to zero around the middle of the century. Except for him, that's good news!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u182	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Van Hees that perhaps he should have listened to what I said earlier. Mr Van Hees, lowering corporate tax is an exogenous phenomenon driven by internal competition between states and at the same time by e-commerce. If you want to put your head in the sand for that, you should do so. I believe that today this government is adapting in a very appropriate way its tactics and strategy to ensure that as much corporate tax as possible is safeguarded. There are two elements, namely a market phenomenon and a social phenomenon. The social phenomenon concerns the preservation of as many burdens as possible. At the same time, account must be taken of the effective market situation. Go on with the burden; that is your plan. But in five or ten years' time, we will re-examine the market and find that it is driven on a completely different basis. That's what I said, not that I'm happy with the company tax going down. I'm by nature someone who doesn't consider it a fun thing to do. At the same time, I believe that account should be taken of the need to safeguard taxes as far as possible, taking into account a good market situation. That's what's happening now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u183	Mr Van de Velde, we know your theory. When I said that according to this union prognosis, the corporate tax rate in the middle of the century would be 0%, you said you thought so too. For you, it is quite interesting to have the tax burden borne by the population rather than by businesses. This is what we are talking about when we cut corporate taxes. Who's gonna carry the load? It's the population. We still have to remember where we came from. At the end of the 1970s, the corporate tax rate was 48 per cent, not to mention a solidarity tax of 4.5 per cent, which most of the companies were required to pay. This resulted in a corporate tax rate of 52.5%. Then we rose to 45 per cent, 43 per cent, 41 per cent, 39 per cent, and 34 per cent in 2002. Now we are planning 29.58% in 2018 and 25% in 2020. This means that over four decades there is a double division of the corporate tax rate. And that's just the facial rate. In addition, niches will play a role in reducing the effective corporate tax rate. This is discrimination against individuals subject to personal tax. We are going to go, for the corporate tax rate, from 20 to 25 per cent; 25 per cent is where the tax brackets for natural persons begin, which goes up to 50 per cent. The proof is that you're afraid that some of the natural people will go into society again. This fear clearly shows that there is discrimination between individuals subject to personal tax and those subject to corporate tax. The OECD notes that there has been a transfer of tax burdens from businesses to households for some time. The OECD is not a communist institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u184	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u185	I know. Some think the UCM is communist. I understand that this government and this majority, which support large companies and do not care about SMEs, can assimilate this to communism. What also increases as a result of this government's policy? The rate of VAT on electricity, for example. In this respect, from 6 per cent to 21 per cent. However, if one refers to the electoral promises, particularly the MR, one should never touch VAT on electricity. So, obviously, taxes can increase and others can decrease. Those that are declining are those that benefit large companies. The ones that are increasing are those that are applied to the population. There are, of course, studies. The National Bank cited a study according to which the decline in rates would have a negative impact. It is quite interesting to know the source of this study which was published in Empirical Economics. When you "grease" a little, you realize that it is, in fact, a working paper of the National Bank itself. As far as I am concerned, I have a study by Oxfam The Netherlands which shows that there is no link between the tax rate and competitiveness. This study is based on a comparison between different countries. Using a graph, it shows that there is no link between the two. Finally, corporate tax reform is simply a transfer of more labour to capital, as was the case with the index jump. Among the lies, or rather the counter-truths – be careful – about this reform, there is the basket. Mr Deseyn, who is not here at the moment, said in committee that companies would pay at least 7.5% tax. Was it a deliberate lie on his part or was it the expression of his ignorance? I don't know. But when I asked the minister, he seemed a little bothered and he tried to drown the fish by saying that a normal business would pay a minimum of 7.5%. In my opinion, a normal company is not a multinational. This clearly means that many multinationals will continue to pay very little or no tax, since apart from notional interest, these are only deferrals of deduction. To claim that companies will pay at least 7.5% is, in the end, a clear counter-truth. Many will continue to pay 0% tax. Belgium will therefore continue to be a tax haven for multinationals. Moreover, the PTB undertook a calculation based on a sample of the 50 companies that received the largest tax deductions in 2016. This shows that they paid 1% tax last year. We have developed a simulation based on the basket, which adds 0.7% tax. Their tax rate will therefore rise to 1.7%. We are far from 7.5%. Other factors will reduce the impact of the trash. First, companies will obviously make arrangements to be able to deduct the same year and have to carry forward as little as possible from one year to the next. Second, income finally taxed will be 100% deductible instead of 95%. So their postponement will be less frequent. Above all, tax consolidation will allow multinationals to offset the losses of one subsidiary by the profits of another. This will, of course, result in far fewer carry-overs of losses. This means that the amounts subject to the Trash will decrease. With regard to permanently taxed income, I have already indicated that this is a requirement of the FEB. So I won't come back. As I said, notional interests are an important part of budgetary compensation. Therefore, it is particularly dangerous to use it, whereas it is based for half on a single measure. I believe that notional interests should be totally eliminated, because those who want to maintain them, in this case in an embryonic form, invoke their need for own funds. This is like rewriting history, since they were not created for this purpose, but rather to find a solution to the disappearance of the tax system of the coordination centres – condemned by the European Union. Moreover, if they were actually used to strengthen own funds, then it would be necessary to consider why income that is definitively taxed at 100 % should be increased, since it favours a reduction in own funds by encouraging the distribution of dividends. The secret commissions remain obscure. Why does this government abolish taxation on secret commissions? These are companies that pay black workers to increase sales. They therefore do not pay ONSS or a professional discount on the worker's salary. They are exempt from VAT and ISOC on profits. There are a multitude of taxes they escape. It was logical that there should be a substantial contribution to these secret commissions, but the government will abolish this tax on secret commissions. In committee, the Minister of Finance also spoke to us about shut-down measures. For example, provisions for risks and expenses and accelerated depreciation are removed. These measures have no long-term budgetary impact but have one between 2018 and 2020. The merits of these tax provisions can be discussed for the deduction of provisions for risks and expenses and accelerated depreciation, but this is not easy because there is pros and cons. There could have been a substantive debate on this, but there was no debate. It was short-circuited by a budgetary objective. The minister has explained to us in committee that since some tax compensation measures do not directly reach their full effect in the first years – only in 2020 – it was necessary to find closure measures. For a temporary budgetary effect, measures are taken that will have an indefinite tax impact. It is the way this government works, which shows amateurism. There are still professional discount exemptions. It's a little complicated to understand because some are in the ISOC version and some are not. There are the professional discount exemptions for research and development for bachelors, which are found in the text submitted to us and there are the professional discount exemptions on teamwork in the building sector, which are not in the ISOC reform. So we're trying to understand the logic. Is it because the second measure is a remainder of the tax shift that it was not included in the reform? However, with the dispensation of professional prepayment, we are dealing with what I have called the "little brother" of notional interests, that is to say, a measure which initially seems to be annoyed but which is growing and which causes more and more carnage in public finances since, today, even before the implementation of these measures, there is already a loss of 3 billion. Under the principle itself, with these occupational discount exemptions, the employer shall deduct from the worker's gross salary the amount of occupational discount which it must pay to the tax authorities. But instead of paying everything to the tax, what does he do? It keeps a part for it and an increasing part because some exemptions account for 80% of the occupational discount taken by the worker. If different sources of exemption are added, 100% may be exceeded. Normally, it is illegal, but it is very often the case that 100% is exceeded because it is well known that there are many frauds in this area and that controls are rare. As far as the exemption from professional pre-payment for teamwork in the construction sector alone is concerned, this represents 400 million in 2020. So far, this measure represents EUR 3 billion of all professional discount exemptions. We asked the minister whether the €400 million, which seems to be a balance of the tax shift, are integrated into the government's multi-year budget planning. He replied in the affirmative. When we look at the general presentation of Budget 2018 (Table 21, p. 46), we see that in the government's multi-year plan, this measure, representing 400 million less in the state budget, is not there. Is this a flagrant counter-truth? What about the Minister of Finance? These 400 million offered to employers are not included in the multi-year budget plan! In committee, the minister reassured us that they were included in the base. But we don't know what that base is. So is there a "secret" basis that is not in the general statement of the budget? That is the question that I have to ask myself: the budget is distributed to parliamentarians and there is a secret basis that is not known about the ins and ins and outs and the figures. That's pretty disturbing! Ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote in favour of this reform and I will sum up a few reasons in conclusion. Firstly, because this reform will not be fiscally neutral. It will cost billions of euros and the population will have to compensate for the shortfall. Secondly, because tax niches for multinationals are not at all eradicated from our tax legislation. Thirdly, because this reform is not for the benefit of SMEs but for large companies. Fourthly, because the population will have to bear an additional tax burden, which will be added in the coming years to the austerity that this government has imposed on us since 2014. And fifthly, because the FEB thanks the government for this umpteenth gift. She invited the minister to a luncheon to talk about it and get the start of this project, which only arrived very late in the House. The FEB is ahead of the MPs!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u186	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me be surprised. The MR and other government parties continue to communicate about the need to encourage personal initiatives, the dynamism of entrepreneurs – especially young people – to create activity and wealth. But in reality, nothing changes! To discourage initiatives, this government has done the same as its predecessors. In Belgium, it is discouraging to take forward-looking initiatives, to believe that success is disturbing. Thus, SMEs, TPEs are in the collimator. How can we seriously require that a passage into society take into account a minimum income of 45 000 euros in the head of a leader? It will be difficult in Wallonia and Brussels. Come back to reality! In view of the tax burden, few SME and TPE managers can rely on a personal income of €45,000. Stop taking entrepreneurs for fraudsters in the soul! They want to work and create jobs. They have an interest in it and the whole population too. The passage into society is not a method of tax evasion, but a way of protecting the private assets of entrepreneurs who take risks. Have you forgotten that the transition to society is sometimes indispensable in order to be able to access public procurement or financing? And, in terms of democracy, the People's Party deplores the retroactivity of new taxes. You kill all corporate strategies. By taxing capital reductions, you immediately punctuate prepayments that should have been paid much later. In short, you puncture and then we'll see. Undoubtedly, until the next entourage to crush businesses and initiatives. And let's not talk about the effect of your new measures on the image of Belgium! Who can still have confidence in a country where we change the business pattern with a vacuum that creates insecurity? As too often, your intentions are good but, in concrete terms, they disappoint. For these reasons, I will abstain from voting on this draft law on corporate tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last two years, it has been clear that a standstill on corporate taxation was no longer an option, given, on the one hand, international developments and, on the other hand, the opinions of all kinds of venerable institutions such as the National Bank, the European Commission, the IMF and so on. The reform before us seeks to maintain different balances and, in some cases, restore them. There is, on the one hand, the reduction of the basic rate and, on the other hand, the reduction and even elimination of certain deductions. The balance between large and small enterprises is also taken into account. It is clear that the large companies will certainly pay a little more in the early stages. On the other hand, there is greater legal certainty for them and for everyone involved, which is important through actions by, among other things, the European Commission in the field of certain tax niches, which may or may not have led them to suspect State aid as we have seen with the excess profit rulings. The overall framework for this reform is also important. This is an important part of what can be called the investment climate, which is essential for everything that is going on economically, and ultimately also socially in the country. A crucial element for this investment climate is the confidence of investors, producers and consumers alike, in which political, geopolitical, economic and monetary stability is considerable. For a small country and certainly very open like Belgium, the international context is decisive for this stability. Trust is therefore crucial, but it does not mean that nothing can be done. Far from it! In order to strengthen stability and confidence and thus improve the investment climate, measures must be taken in particular at the level of labour costs and energy costs. Mobility has also become a substantial element in this context, and certainly also taxation. There, indeed, and contrary to some groups here in Parliament, the government strongly believes in rather general measures: reduction of basic tariffs, 20% tariff for SMEs, very specific measures, very focused on certain sectors. Speaking of sectors, we often ask what the impact of this reform is on sectors A, B or C. On the basis of the calculations we have made, we can see that it is very difficult to distinguish the sectors that earn from those that pay. Much depends on the structure of the company, regardless of the sector. This depends on how the balance sheet is composed, how it is financed, and where the company is in its investment cycle. These are key elements in finding those who win and those who lose with the measures in this reform. I come to the next point: budgetary neutrality. The government has asked the National Bank to verify them and to check the calculations made in that respect by the FPS Finance. I remember, without doing selective reading, that the National Bank says that the calculations are serious and conservative. Moreover, payback effects have not been taken into account. The National Bank clearly indicates that there will be. For this purpose, the National Bank bases itself on the more detailed analysis made in 2016 by the Supreme Court of Finance. As far as financing and, therefore, budgetary neutrality are concerned, two measures are of great importance, because, as has been correctly pointed out by several speakers, they are a very important part of the funding. It concerns, on the one hand, the notional income deduction and, on the other hand, the ATAD measures which we introduce in the OECD context. I shall come back to the ATAD measures and the implementation arrangements. I will now specifically refer to the assessment of the extent of the impact, because it is about budget neutrality. Two internationally accepted studies were on the table. The OECD estimates the impact of the whole package of measures between USD 100 and 240 billion. That's a big fork. In addition, the European Parliament's Research Service amounts to a fork of EUR 50 to 70 billion per year for all EU countries. What have we done? Moreover, the National Bank strongly supports this approach. We have taken the lowest of both forks, which is 50 billion. In view of the fact that the Belgian economy accounts for 2.6 percent of the EU economy, we came to an amount of just over 1.3 billion. Eventually, 1.2 billion has been subscribed. I repeat that the National Bank confirms very clearly that, in its view, this is a conservative estimate in the overall context of financing this ISOC reform. Secondly, for notional interests, we are moving from a 100% system to an incremental one. Thus, only theoretical interest is paid on the increase in own funds, and that on the basis of a five-year rolling average, which has the great advantage of smoothing out all kinds of movements in equity, such as capital reductions and capital increases, and thus giving a consistent picture over the longer term of how own capital evolves. This has the advantage of eliminating certain excesses from the past, whereby the notional interest on the full monty, if I may put it that way, was given, but at the same time, very important, a good incentive is maintained to encourage companies to strengthen their own capital. Again, this is an assessment of fairly large sums, but several speakers have mentioned that this is also a measure that can weigh very heavily on public finances. I paraphrase what Governor Jan Smets has said about this in the Finance and Budget Committee. Since we are talking about the impact on cruising speed within about three years, a very basic automation was assumed, in particular the fact that the European Central Bank is still very explicit in its inflation target, i.e. below 2% but in the direction of 2%. The same monetary authorities also say that in normal economic conditions a real interest rate, i.e. independently of inflation, from 1% to 1,5% is also part of the current business. This means that, in normal circumstances, the very explicit objectives of the European Central Bank, which ultimately also determine our monetary policy, mean that the reference interest rate for the application of the notional interest rate is 3 to 3.5%. The National Bank also clearly concludes that, in this case, the use of an interest rate of 2% is a conservative estimate of the effects of cruise speed notional interest on the financing of the tax shift reform. Finally, as regards funding, we will obviously monitor this reform, as we do twice a year for the whole budget. This reform is part of this budget, and it is therefore obvious to me that we will monitor this reform and its impact on public finances. I come to a few more specific elements. First of all, I am talking about fiscal consolidation. I just want to make it clear what this is about. At present there are two forms of fiscal consolidation in Europe. On the one hand, there is the actual total fiscal consolidation of domestic group companies. This is the case, for example, in France, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark and Italy. On the other hand, there are also regimes in which profits or losses can be offset to some extent between group companies, such as Sweden, Finland and the UK. We are in line with the current reform with the second form of fiscal consolidation. However, I would point out that the National Bank is very explicit in its appreciation. At cruising speed, she said it would be about EUR 500 million and then it would be a conservative assessment of the financial impact of the reform. Will consolidation undermine the OECD's BEPS plan? The BEPS Action Plan aims to ensure that, in an international context, the taxable base of States is not emptied of its substance or that profits are transferred through the use of international structures. The core of this plan of action concerns inter alia the interaction and conjunction of the tax laws of different States and principles adapted from international tax law to daily practice. Tax consolidation, on the other hand, is aimed at treating groups operating through different companies in Belgium as if they were operating through a single company for certain economic reasons. As mentioned above, this is only to a limited extent and there will be no complete fiscal consolidation. In this way, the tax result of these companies in Belgium will be more closely aligned with the consolidated Belgian result. With regard to the handling of the hive, the subtractions 1 million plus 70% of a number of subtractions were asked to what extent this is in line with what Europe is asking for, recommends or imposes a limit. With regard to the conformity of the basket with European law, the Government has responded in detail to the comments made by the Council of State. The basket has been set up to ensure its compliance with European legislation. The annual RTD deduction is thus not limited. A dividend will therefore never be taxed during the year in which it is collected. In addition, the scheme ensures at least equal treatment of RTD surpluses and losses carried over, in accordance with the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, in the famous Cobelfret judgment. Indeed, a company which cannot fully apply this deduction because of an insufficient result, thereby constituting a deferred deduction, either records a loss or may use other deductions prior to the RTD deduction, other than the dividends received being taken into account. With regard to the introduction of the ATAD agreements within the framework of the OECD and Europe agreements, I would point out that the directive is being fully transposed. Indeed, the Directive sets out several options, but whether or not these options are illuminated does not necessarily mean that the door to profit shifting is reopened. For example, the Directive lays down a number of exceptions to the interest deduction limit, such as exemptions for financial institutions or infrastructure projects. Those exceptions are logical in order not to make it difficult to carry out the activities in question. They are also sufficiently strictly aligned not to allow the risk of profit shifting to exist or increase again. The exceptions are also in line with the recommendations made by the OECD in this context. Subsequently, this too was clearly stated by the National Bank of Belgium in its reporting exercise not all the options of the Directive are being transposed. For example, no carve-out is foreseen for group companies, which avoids circumvention of interest deduction through internal structuring or internal optimisations. In addition, the maximum amount of the Directive of EUR 3 million, which does not limit the interest or interest payments, is applied to Belgian group companies at a consolidated level, whereas the Directive would in principle allow the application of that amount per company separately. Also for the scheme on exit taxation and hybrid mismatches, a number of exceptions laid down in the Directive were not included. Finally, the CFC scheme was developed in an appropriate and proportionate manner, without limiting itself to the minimum required by the Directive. The Directive does not provide for de minimis exceptions and the taxable profit which can be taxed on the basis of the scheme is no longer limited. The claim that the Directive was not fully transposed is therefore difficult. Taking into account the proportionality of the measures concerned and their impact on the investment environment, the Government has transposed the Directives in an appropriate manner. Finally, it is clear that the UCM agreed that a reform of ISOC was very important and necessary. It was satisfied with 20% of the EUR 100 000 profit for SMEs, but asked about measures concerning vervennootschappeijking. The connection between ISOC and PPI was well seen. Lowering rates on the withdrawal bonus for self-employed workers and harmonising the regulation of car costs between personal and corporation tax is a clear step in this direction, and we are also trying to encourage the implementation of economic activities in the personal taxation regime. The temporary increase in the investment deduction from 8% to 20% will also apply to self-employed persons. At the beginning of next year, the government will present a draft law introducing a second pillar for self-employed workers. Those who organise their activities under the personal taxation regime can also count on the support of the government. The principle of main remuneration is that 45,000 euros must be paid to at least one company manager. This is the general principle. The exception is equally important, namely that the remuneration may be less than 45 000 euros if it is at least equal to the taxable profit of the company, which is equivalent to the 50/50 rule. The minimum remuneration is equal to half of the corporation's taxable income before deducting any executive remuneration. Only companies with a taxable income, before deduction of executive remuneration, of 90 000 euros or more, are required to pay a remuneration of at least 45 000 euros. For companies with taxable income before deduction of executive remuneration of less than 90,000 euros, it is sufficient to pay 50% of taxable income as remuneration to an officer. At present, this is also the case with the remuneration of 36 000 euros. I insist: nothing changes for companies whose taxable income before deduction of the CEO's remuneration is less than 72 000 euros. With the current rule of 36 000 euros, they must already pay half as remuneration. This exception, in other words the 50/50 rule, remains unchanged. I want to be very clear again: in terms of calculations, and therefore results of calculations, nothing changes. Finally, as regards communication with the UCM, I have already said this morning in my speech that we have provided very clear information at least at five times. I can also provide emails in which the people of the UCM... The representatives of the UCM thanked us for the information provided on the changes we had made, which also related to this remuneration. In my view, everything has been done to establish direct communication with this organization. We have succeeded – certainly, not always. In any case, we have sparked discussions to get feedback on our proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u188	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u189	Mr President, I rely on you to decide how things can be discussed without unduly disrupting our work. Let's not confuse things. The press reports that Mr. Franken has lied or concealed information. I am still expressing myself at this stage on the conditional. We'd like to know, Mr. President, what you think. We ask you whether Mr Francken should not clarify this point: was he or she informed that repatriation flights were still planned in January to Sudan? I ask you the question, Mr President, because it is unacceptable to receive incorrect information from both the Prime Minister and Mr Franken. We are asking for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u190	Mr Laaouej, it is not my job to clarify things. However, I read like everyone else that a repatriation was on the schedule. From the moment the Secretary of State became aware of it, he cancelled it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u191	Mr President, I can understand your first reply to Mr Laaouej saying that it is not up to you to make the clarifications, but it seems to me that the approach of our colleague and ours is to receive them. It is up to you, not to bring it to us, but to put the procedures in place so that they are. We are on the eve of parliamentary leave, but Parliament is never really on leave. I understand, through the intervention of our colleague, his request to hear the information that you might have held and that you were supposed to transmit to us - you did not have one, either - but also his need to question you with regard to the organisation of the procedure so that we could receive the information in connection with that. My colleagues, Benoit Hellings and Wouter De Vriendt, have also written to the chairman of the committee concerned because we do not want to spend fifteen days as if nothing were happening, given the potential seriousness of the information that Mr Laaouej mentioned. Beyond your first answer, it seems to me that the inquiry is deeper and that it aims to see how things will be organized, without waiting for the return of Parliament on January 8 or 9, 2018. I think you understand the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u192	Mr President, it is not up to you to clarify. You have given us a number of elements. Thank you. What we want is clarification in Parliament with the actors concerned, first and foremost Mr Franken, because Mr Franken allowed himself to consider that the Prime Minister had made "absorbing remarks", I quote. Now it turns out that these words were not so absurd as that. So this is something that can be gratified by the Prime Minister, but at the same time it also means that Mr Franken did not tell the truth. He now claims that in the end, he was not well informed. When you're not well informed, you don't allow yourself to vilipcate a prime minister. That is how our institutions should function! Second, there is no reason to suspend the right to the truth. There is no reason to refrain in our institution from setting up the procedures that will allow us to have an exchange of views and a debate with Mr Franken by asking him the questions that will clarify both his information and the attitudes he has taken on this issue for several weeks. It is unacceptable to hear from the press that Mr Franken has not told the truth to the media or to Parliament! We are calling for a meeting of the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u193	Mr President, the paradox may be that it is the opposition that defends the Prime Minister's function. But it is a matter of respect for the institutions in view of a fact of gravity which can still be taken all the time: a secretary of state, according to the information, considered yesterday that he should make a statement, under a false pretext of not creating a call of air; that he should distort the truth and disregard the office of prime minister by allowing himself to reframe it. It's new! I do not know which Prime Minister in the history of Belgium would have allowed a secretary of state to show such audacity. But when, in addition, lies are added to insults, there is a limit that is crossed and that Parliament still preserves the credibility of the country's institutions. In defending the Prime Minister, we do not defend the majority and certainly not the behaviour of a secretary of state who has become totally "out of radar", if I may say, out of all legitimacy. We are still asking for a sense of ministerial responsibility in this country before Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u194	Mr Calvo, your group has already spoken about this, so I suggest that I just give the answer. The answer is that the organisation of the committee's work is for the committee itself and for its chairman. The Rules of Procedure even state that in the summer recess, the President of the Chamber must give the green light to this. Right now, so for the Christmas tree, that's not true. We can go on for hours, but as I said, your group has already spoken, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u195	Mr President, last night I spoke very clearly about how the Prime Minister refused to return to plenary when the Secretary of State had publicly stated that the Prime Minister's remarks were "absurd" – I quote. Last night, I also spoke widely about how crucial values of respect for human rights were being undermined. Yesterday, you tried to catch up with a motion signed by the four parties of the majority. Since then, water has sank under the bridges. This motion obviously does not represent much more. Today, the Secretary of State makes a completely different speech and seems to leave the door open again to the unacceptable. Mr President, not being able to question the government on this point today, or at least in the coming days, would be totally unacceptable. The truce of confectioners does not account for things as serious as what happened yesterday, today, but also in recent weeks, in connection with the Sudanese mission and the agreement of Belgium with a dictatorship that violates fundamental human rights. Mr President, either you take an initiative yourself or you take an initiative with the chairman of the committee concerned. But allowing the emptiness, the doubts, and even more, until 8 January, would be totally unacceptable. It is your role and your responsibility as Speaker of the House as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u196	Mrs. Fonck, I must disappoint you. I won't take any initiative, for the simple reason that I don't deserve it either. It is up to the committee itself to decide on this. So we'll see. Of course, I will never oppose it if the committee itself wants to meet. Once again, it is up to the committee to decide on its own work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u197	Mr President, I said yesterday that this is a very important issue: human rights. I will not repeat yesterday's debate. Like my colleague Laaouej, I have to say today that the information we had yesterday is not correct. You repeat what we should read in the newspapers. Once again, if we continue to do so, it is better to abolish Parliament. If we believe that Parliament no longer has rights, if we believe that Members are no longer entitled to information, then we must stop. I still understand your answer that it is not for you to convene the committee. Mr Vermeulen, you are also here. I address you as chairman of the committee. The opposition is asking to convene the committee to see why a Secretary of State did not report yesterday that there were repatriations on the agenda, which were cancelled. If it isn't, I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. Mrs. Sarah Smeyers also came here yesterday to tell us that there were no plans. However, we are reading other messages today. Again, this is about human rights. This is not a matter of increasing or lowering a tax, it is about human rights. As a Parliament, we have the right to know what the attitude of our country is and how we deal with it. Mr President of the Committee on the Interior, Mr Vermeulen, are you prepared to convene that committee? If not, I would like to hear from you what your arguments are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u198	Mr Calvo, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u199	Mr President, I believe that the solution is within reach. It seems clear to me that we need to settle this, because the situation has become even more significant compared to yesterday. In the meantime, we have stumbled upon at least two facts where the Secretary of State has not told the full truth about Parliament and the head of government. Meanwhile, there is also the fact that Secretary of State Francken admits that he deliberately does not tell the truth. He says that if he had told the truth, this might have caused a suction effect. In the meantime, we are so far away in our country that a minister no longer has to tell the truth and admits that he has done so consciously. There are therefore two options, Mr President. Or we're gonna take care of this right now. We're filing a motion and requisitioning Secretary of State Francken. Mr Van Overtveldt can then call Mr Francken and ask him to come here as soon as possible. Either committee chairman Vermeulen is now committed, immediately, to hearing the Secretary of State next week. This seems to me to be the quickest way to settle this discussion. However, it is the least that needs to be done in this House today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u200	Mr President, I will be brief. You have just told us, several opposition colleagues and I, that you could not convene the committee. In this case, I appeal to Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: "Commissions shall be convened by the Speaker or, in his absence, by the Speaker of the House". We ask you, Mr. Chairman, to convene a committee to hear Mr. Franken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u201	Mrs Fonck, you have read our Rules of Procedure well, but you have misinterpreted them. The agenda shall be fixed by the committee or, failing that, by the Speaker of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u202	Article 23.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u203	Yes, yes. I'm quoting him. "Failure to do so" means: in the absence of the chairman of the committee. Here, in the Chamber's hemisphere, no one can be forced to speak. I suppose the President in question will consider it. Otherwise, there's nothing on the table here. Mr. Frédéric, are you asking for the floor? We can go on, if you like. It doesn't bother me at all. I have time. Mr Frédéric, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u204	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u205	Mr Dewael asked for the floor in order to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u206	Mr President, we are meeting in this plenary session with an approved agenda. May I ask, by order motion, that we now exhaust this agenda? That deserves priority. I do not understand why everyone is constantly talking about matters that have nothing to do with what is on an approved agenda today. I would therefore ask the House to vote now. I call for priority to be given to the agenda, as we have approved it by consensus. I would ask the House to give its opinion on this at this point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u207	We can express our views on what Mr Dewael is asking, but in the meantime we will also have to vote on a motion which has been tabled on the basis of Rule 50. I'll read them to you: "We're taking Theo Francken up after his lies about repatriation in connection with Sudan." This motion was signed by Mrs Kitir and Mr Nollet. First of all, we are expressing our opinion on Mr Dewael's order motion, sitting down and standing up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u208	We are now voting on the motion tabled by Mrs Kitir and Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u209	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u210	Mr Vuye, the debate is closed. I'm terribly sorry, but we're not going through with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u211	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2864/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2864/4) The bill has 90 articles. The bill has 90 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u212	****** Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a motion from Mrs Kitir, which I declare inadmissible because of non bis in idem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u213	Vote on Amendment No 30 by Kristof Calvo cs on Article 20. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Kristof Calvo cs to Article 20. (2864/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[17]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 112 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u214	(...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u215	Not with the amendments. Never with the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u216	Mr. President, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u217	After the votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u218	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u219	We never do. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 49. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Olivier Maingain cs to Rule 49. (2864/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[14]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 108 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 49 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 49 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 50. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 50. (2864/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u220	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 50 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 50 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 54. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Rule 54. (2864/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 31 Yes No. 81 Non Abstentions 6 Abstentions Totaal 118 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. (...): (...) justification for my (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u221	No, there will be time for an explanation of vote when we vote on the whole, but not on the amendments. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 54. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Olivier Maingain cs to Rule 54. (2864/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[29]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 54 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 54 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u222	Mr President, (....)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u223	You will have the opportunity before the general vote. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Olivier Maingain cs on article 55. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Olivier Maingain cs to Rule 55. ( 2864/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 55 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 55 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u224	(....) to justify my abstention. (...) : It's mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u225	Vote on Amendment No 18 by Olivier Maingain cs to omit Article 59. ( 2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Olivier Maingain cs to delete Rule 59. (2864/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. One can ask for the floor before the vote on the whole. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to omit Article 59. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to delete Rule 59. (2864/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 59 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 59 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Olivier Maingain cs to omit Article 60. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Olivier Maingain cs to delete Article 60. (2864/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u226	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to omit Article 60. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to delete Article 60. (2864/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u227	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 60 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 60 adopted. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Olivier Maingain cs to omit Article 69. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Olivier Maingain cs to delete Rule 69. (2864/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 69 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 69 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Olivier Maingain cs to omit Article 70. (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Olivier Maingain cs to delete Rule 70. (2864/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u228	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 70 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 70 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert Articles 91 to 94(n). (2864/5) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert Articles 91 to 94(n). (2864/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 125 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u229	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u230	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u231	Mr President, I know that there is a lot of nervousness, and that is quite logical given the importance of what is being played out. But that is not enough reason for you to go beyond the way you are expected to preside over the plenary meeting of the House of Commons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u232	I have given you the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u233	I wanted to be able to justify my abstention from a previous vote. You stopped me! You gave me the floor to justify my abstention from the last vote. I wanted, since many votes, to justify this abstention by the fact that I believe that the rights of the opposition parliamentarians are no longer respected in the House from the moment you organise votes without the possibility of understanding what is being voted, without even having the opportunity to explain the requests that my colleagues had to make, without even having the possibility to explain simply and justify why the colleagues had tabled a motion relating to Rule 50. The Rules of Procedure – as my colleague Mr Calvo is trying to remind you – provides for 5 minutes per group. You did not accept what the Rules of Procedure provided for. As a result, I wanted to start by abstaining on votes that do not actually have anything to do with Rule 50. Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that you must now accept what was planned, namely the possibility for everyone to speak – five minutes per group – on this rule 50 and on the motion tabled. I ask you to take the time to reflect on this in view of the seriousness of the content but also the precedent that you could create in this area. Without giving the groups the opportunity to speak, you organized the votes while a Rule 50 motion tabled allowed colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u234	It seems to me that you have committed a violation of Rules 50 and 48 of our Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in view of the seriousness of the situation, I ask you, Mr President, to convene a Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u235	Mr President, thank you. We discussed earlier how you interpreted Article 23. My colleagues have just put forward articles 50 and 48. It is unacceptable for the Speaker of the House to interpret the Rules on the basis of what arranges the government or on the basis of what arranges the government majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u236	Mr President, I abstained because you violated another Rule of Procedure. Mr Dewael took the floor orally in order to speak, while Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the order must be transferred to you in writing. Written, Mr President! And she needs to be distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u237	Mr Vuye, there is an incredible difference between an order motion and an appeal to the agenda. That's it, that's it. That's the first answer. The second answer is as follows. I did not allow you to speak in the vote on the amendments when applying the second paragraph of Rule 57. In the meantime, a member or group or group has requested the convening of the Conference of Presidents. I will therefore now suspend the sitting and immediately convene the Conference of Presidents. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u238	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u239	I would like to inform you that, as a result of the work of the Conference of Presidents, it has been decided to hold a number of urgent discussions within the week. The chairman of the Committee on the Interior will inform you as soon as possible about the exact modalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u240	Mr President, I propose that we convene the committee after the plenary session. In the meantime, I hear there's been a call to requisition the presence. The members of the Home Affairs Commission are expected after the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally finished our work for this year. I would like to thank all of you for the many debates we have had, which have generally taken place in a constructive atmosphere with respect for the rights of each other. Colleagues, 2017 was an exciting international year, which determined our work. I am thinking here of terrorist attacks, Brexit and all international events. In addition, I think I can say that we have passed important laws such as the Transgender Persons Act and the Law on Extension of Time to Arrest for Certain Offences. I am also thinking of continuing the reform of the justice system and the reform of inheritance law. And in a moment, I hope, we will vote on the draft law on the reform of ISOC. In addition, four commissions of inquiry met during this year. Colleagues, the new year will of course also be very busy. I can and will only hope that this work will run in some better circumstances than in the past few weeks. Of course there is the normal game of minority against majority, but the government must realise that if both minority and majority can no longer do their normal work because of excessively tight timetables, there is a considerable problem. In the past this has happened among governments of different compositions, but the question arises as to whether we should continue to do so. I hope this doesn't happen again. After all, it would be an implicit or even explicit embarrassment for the many Members of Parliament in all groups who take their work very much to heart. I wish ourselves and the government further insight in this regard. Apart from that, I wish the government and also you, my dear fellow Members, an invigorating Christmas holiday. I would also like to thank and convey my best wishes to all those who make the operation of our assembly possible every day. I am thinking of our clerk and his team, all personnel, the military commander, the members of the military police and the security officers. In particular, at the end of this calendar year, I would like to make an exception to the rule that no names should be mentioned. I'm gonna do that. I would like to express my thanks to our committee, our translation services and our printing services, because, ladies and gentlemen, we have really pushed those people to their limits this year, but they have remained on their feet. Thank you for that, un très grand merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u242	So all I have to do is wish you a nice holiday and say, "To next year, I hope." Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, mijnheer de voorzitter, beste collega's, on the eve of a new year, I would like to offer you a few wishes, which I will do with great pleasure. First of all, I would like to tell you how lucky we are to be working in a parliamentary institution like ours – I believe that no democrat is losing sight of him. A chance, but also a responsibility that leads us – which should lead us – to irrigate our democracy with contributions that assure it a beautiful vitality. In this respect, parliamentary democracy needs debate as we need oxygen. However, the debate for the debate is not enough. In order to give our institution its full dimension and meet the expectations of our fellow citizens, the debate must have certain qualities, first and foremost its contradictory nature and the conditions that make it possible. As we all know, a debate is not a monologue. The first of these qualities is the adversarial nature and the conditions that make a debate possible. A debate, as we know, is not a monologue or a juxtaposition of opinions, and not even the confrontation of postures. The democratic debate is or should be an exchange of views, analyses and ideas, which must be considered and respected, regardless of the differences, provided that they are based on the values that bring the Democrats together. I cannot therefore ignore the conditions under which the government has led us to work in recent weeks. I think I can speak here on behalf of all the parties of the democratic opposition, and perhaps also on behalf of some colleagues of the majority: let us be optimistic and constructive! We ask you to show a little more respect for parliamentary work in 2018. Respecting parliamentary work means making parliamentary democracy live, no more, no less. It is also difficult to ignore from our institution, the state of democracy in our country, as in many parts of the world. The picture is not gratifying, especially when we are given the opportunity to see, in too many countries, fundamental rights and respect for human dignity trampled on. Let us be careful, however, not to lose sight of the fact that democracy, human rights, and public freedoms - all important though they may be - are nonetheless fragile, and even very fragile. There is no shortage of examples. Let us remain vigilant, ladies and gentlemen. This is, no doubt, our primary responsibility. Of course, Mr. Speaker, I will not fail to express our thanks and respect to all the services and staff of the House, regardless of the level or assignment. Every person and every wheel is important. Without you, Parliament would not be able to perform its functions properly. Thank you very much! [[Applause]] I would also like to thank the press, who, sometimes in difficult circumstances, follows our work and takes account of our debates. Finally, I wish you all, my dear fellow Members, your staff and the staff of the Chamber, good luck and good health for the new year. Finally, at this moment when, with conviviality, I wish you all, ladies and gentlemen, your colleagues, the members of the House of Commons, my best wishes for happiness and health for the new year. Happy holidays at the end of the year and see you soon for new adventures!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u244	Then I would like to mention that the Committee on the Interior will be meeting in the Damian Room shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u245	Is anyone still asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Is anyone else asking for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2864/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2864/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-plenair-ip209x.u246	The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 11 January 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 11 January 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
