ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the Hungarian Parliament recently adopted by a large majority the reintroduction of the systematic detention of all migrants entering the country, which had been abolished in 2013 under pressure from the European Union and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). When asked about this by my colleague Stéphane Crusnière in plenary session on 16 March, Minister Reynders replied in substance: "I remain convinced that as long as we wait to discuss a specific problem in a given country, we will not make progress. The debate on the economic and budgetary situation of the Member States must go hand in hand with a periodic review of the rule of law in each of these countries. I have been asking since February 2016. Half the Member States and now the European Parliament support us. We should work in the same direction with the national parliaments." Do I have to remind you that I expressed my concern to you a year ago about the expulsion of 30 asylum seekers forcibly returned to Hungary, 29 of whom under the Dublin Regulation, between 1 January and 30 November 2015, despite the failure to comply with Article 3(2) of the Dublin III Regulation. You replied: "Mr. Kir, I am sticking to the principle of trust between states with regard to Hungary. We do not have enough reason to suspend Dublin transfers to Hungary. Each transfer decision (...) In addition, I can inform you that, despite the position of the Netherlands, countries such as Germany are still taking decisions to transfer Dublin to Hungary, as well as other countries." On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. - A year after your answer, where are we? What is the number of asylum seekers transferred from Belgium to Hungary under the Dublin Regulation between 1 January 2016 and today? In view of the current events, do you still consider Hungary to be a safe country, knowing, as the UN High Commissioner for Refugees pointed out, that this law, which entered into force on 28 March last, violates Hungary's obligations to international and European asylum laws? Therefore, would it not be more appropriate to suspend Dublin transfers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u2	Mr President, my speech joins that of Mr Kir. Indeed, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has asked EU member countries not to return asylum-seekers to Hungary until the country has amended its new law on the detention of migrants at the border. This appeal is very recent: it dates from April 10th. UNHCR calls on European countries to "suspend any transfer to Hungary of asylum seekers under the Dublin Regulation until the Magyare authorities comply with European and international law." I draw this quote from the texts distributed by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. That is not more explicit and legally convincing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u3	This request is therefore the result of the adoption by the Hungarian Parliament on 28 March of a law under which migrants, including children, are systematically detained in barbed wire containers at the border for the duration of the processing of their asylum applications. This is clearly a violation of international and Community law. According to the Hungarian Minister of the Interior, the measure - which the Orban government had had to give up in 2013 under pressure from the European Union and the High Commissioner for Refugees - aims "to prevent migrants whose status is not clearly defined from moving freely within the national territory and within the European Union and thus to reduce the security risks associated with migration". This, of course, is a false argument of the Hungarian minister. Within ten days, the High Commissioner estimates that there are 110 persons, including four unaccompanied children and children with families, who have already been detained under these conditions. I am talking about ten days, but my question was introduced in early April and statistics have, of course, increased. The High Commissioner adds that "while acknowledging the recent efforts of the authorities to combat police violence, we remain very concerned about very worrying reports of serious incidents, ill-treatment and violence (..) including by State agents", a situation that is obviously unacceptable. So, Mr Secretary of State, I join Mr Kir's questions: will Belgium follow up on the High Commissioner's call to suspend the return of people to Hungary? So far, how many asylum seekers have been returned under the Dublin system? Has this number changed in recent months? Let us take as a reference period the beginning of this calendar year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. I remain convinced that the Dublin system, which determines the country responsible for processing asylum applications, is one of the foundations of a correct European asylum policy. This requires some form of solidarity, but also responsibility between the different Member States. Where application of the Dublin rules proves impossible because certain Member States cannot offer the guarantees necessary for the correct treatment of the asylum seekers concerned, it is for the Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, to take the necessary measures, where appropriate. Indeed, for some time, long before the amendment of the law in Hungary, the Dublin transfers from Belgium to Hungary were no longer carried out. I will not support a country such as Germany which until recently was still carrying out transfers to Hungary and which publicly announces, in an official declaration, the suspension of the Dublin procedure. Moreover, the events of 2015 have clearly demonstrated that such signals can very quickly be misinterpreted. When the German government, in autumn 2015, publicly declared that it was not going to apply the Dublin rules to Syrian refugees, this led to an influx of refugees that put both the European asylum system and the Schengen area at risk. Between 1 January 2016 and today, no asylum seekers were transferred to Hungary under the Dublin procedure, mainly because Hungary refuses to cooperate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u5	[[Did I understand that the reason for the decision is that Hungary refuses to cooperate?]] I don't understand very well. It is not the appeal of the UN High Commissioner to suspend the Dublin transfers to Hungary that drives this decision, but the lack of cooperation of the Hungarian authorities. Could you develop a little so that we can understand? I can't figure out what you meant when you're talking about Hungary's lack of collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u6	There have been no Dublin transfers to Hungary for many months, since 1 January 2016, i.e. a year and a half. It's clear, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u7	I hear you tell us that in fact there are no transfers either because there are no circumstances that justify them or because there is no collaboration. But here, it's a question of principle that you're being asked. There's a call from the High Commission. Are you entitled to this call or not? Instead, you seemed to say that no, you would not follow the example of Germany which clearly indicated the suspension of the Dublin procedure. What you're being asked for is not just to tell us that, in fact, there are no transfers at the moment. You are asked: has there been a response from the Belgian government to the appeal of the High Commission? Yes or no? That's what we're asking you. I suppose you are still responding to a High Commissioner for Refugee Policy when he makes an appeal of this importance? Was there a formal response? If so, what is the content? That's what you're asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u8	I completely agree with Mr. Maingain's line. Has the Belgian Government responded to the request of the UN High Commissioner to suspend Dublin transfers to Hungary? The answer given by Mr Franken is not very clear, even if he has tried. When you say that there is a lack of collaboration, it does not mean anything about the request of the High Commission for Refugees. What was the Belgian Government's response? That's what we're asking you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u9	There was no answer because there was no concrete question to the government! I didn't get a letter from Mr. Grandi. I am not making a public statement on the application of the Dublin Regulation. It is a difficult and sensitive matter. Furthermore, were there any concerns about how Hungary welcomed refugees or asylum-seekers? Yes! Is Belgium vigilant in this regard? Yes, absolutely! Are there any discussions in the JHA European Council? Yes! Belgium assumes its responsibilities and does not make Dublin transfers. I will not make a big statement because I do not agree with what is happening there and how they treat human beings. My answer is therefore clear! This is a sensitive subject, but I repeat that Belgium does not make Dublin transfers to Hungary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u10	We've known you a little bit clearer! When you want to be cash and clear, you can be. Here, we don't know exactly what you mean. I'll ask you my questions. First, do you condemn the systematic detention of migrants in Hungary? Secondly, will you respond to the High Commissioner's call to suspend? Will you answer officially?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u11	It is the European Commission that must ensure compliance with the European Treaties on the treatment of human beings and asylum seekers, and not Belgium. As to whether we have discussed it in the JHA Council, yes, it is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u12	Mr President, I note that we will not get a precise answer from Mr Franken. There are many countries that take responsibility and react, such as the Netherlands and more recently Germany. You don't want to answer the question, so-called because you don't want to make an air call. We understand the message you want to convey. We will therefore come back with new questions in a forthcoming committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, it was included in the government agreement that, following the audit at the asylum authorities, the operation of the Foreign Affairs Office and Fedasil will also be vetted. CD&V has always insisted on this because the proper and transparent functioning of these services is necessary. The audit at the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless was carried out very thoroughly. We hope that the same will be done in the audits of the DVZ and Fedasil. What's the status? Has the audits of both services already started? If so, when will these be completed? If not, why not? When will they start? Who will carry out the audits for the Foreign Office and Fedasil respectively? Are several agencies involved? What will be the role of the NGOs? Are they getting involved? Why is that? Why is that? For which services at the Foreign Affairs Office and Fedasil, respectively, will an audit be carried out? Will these be all the services? Could you give me a little more explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u14	The Court of Auditors has been carrying out a thematic audit of Fedasil since the end of last year. They have visited a number of federal centres for this purpose and organized a lot of conversations. Three people are working on this full-time. They also visited some of the partners' centres. In doing so, they requested a number of evaluation reports to examine whether the recommendations had been followed up in the meantime. The audit may last until May. A preliminary report is expected in September. The final report is expected in the autumn. I'll file that in the Chamber. Then it can be discussed further here. I'm coming to the DVZ audit. At the beginning of this year I asked the formal question to the Federal Internal Audit Service to organise an internal audit of the DVZ. The Federal Internal Audit Service started an audit in March. There are several parts involved. Firstly, an audit of the Minors' Service, a follow-up audit of an action plan of November 2015. This audit started in March and will be ready by the beginning of June 2017. Following this follow-up audit, there is also a management audit on the relative risk statements of the service, namely about the image and reputation of the service and its competence, knowledge and expertise. This audit starts after the follow-up audit, beginning of June and will be completed by the end of September. There will also be an audit of the Executive Board of Closed Centres and the closed centres themselves. You might like to hear that. The quality audit Logistics processes are in line with the management audit Relative risk statements of the service Less years in June 2017. Since it is difficult to estimate exactly how many processes need to be evaluated, the end date can only be roughly estimated, in particular at the end of 2017. A quality audit Management processes and human resources follow the quality audit of the logistics processes and start early 2018. Since it is unclear what exactly the content will be, the end date cannot yet be set. It's up to the audit department to get that back on paper. All services of the DVZ were subject to a quality audit for the Federal Internal Audit Service, given the limited capacity available to the Federal Internal Audit Service and the other audits and tasks carried out by the Federal Internal Audit Service. Then there's another audit of the Court of Auditors for the DVZ. The first phase of the audit of the Court of Auditors has begun. At present, the information sheets drawn up by the Court of Auditors are being completed. The audit will examine the processes at the DVZ across the various services. The auditors will pay particular attention to the reception points for criminal illegals in the closed centre of Vottem. So that's the twenty cells, or rather those ten or eleven cells with twenty places. Finally, as I said, the Court of Auditors is also carrying out an audit on everything related to the asylum crisis. I am referring to the audit that is now under way at Fedasil. For this audit, the focus is basically on everything that has to do with the Court of Auditors. That is where further research is being carried out and I am also curious about the results, I have to say honestly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, I hear you naming a number of parts of the Foreign Office which will be audited by the Federal Internal Audit Service or where an audit is now being carried out. That's a good thing. In addition, however, you report that the capacity is insufficient to thoroughly or fully monitor DVZ.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u16	Not entirely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u17	In the coalition agreement, we did not agree that this review should be carried out by that service. I believe that it is important to consider which services should be examined and that this review should actually be carried out, either by the Federal Internal Audit Service or by another body that can carry out such an audit. In particular, there is a demand for transparency in the decisions taken by DVZ. I do not know whether this is included in the quality procedure. If that is true, then I think that DVZ's decisions should be accountable in all transparency, so that there is no discussion about them. If the decisions are transparent, then we know how DVZ arrives at certain decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u18	Yeah, that's part of it. I've worked with the tools I have at my disposal. At the moment, the Court of Auditors is auditing Fedasil and the DVZ. The FIA will in turn fully review DVZ in two or three domains. I believe that this is a very great effort and these checks also require a great deal of staff and organisation. You really shouldn't underestimate that. I think that's perfectly in line with the coalition agreement. I never understood that the coalition agreement states that we would examine the Foreign Affairs Office completely, with all the processes that are under way. That simply cannot be done in five years' time. In addition, such audits should also be budgeted. That was discussed in the government's lap. Such audits cost an enormous amount of money. This is how I believe we are going to work well and efficiently. It is also very important that the closed centres are involved, in which some processes are examined. This is also important in order to provide answers to civil society and the population, as we have already had many questions here. Quality is assessed. The trials within the Department of Foreign Affairs are being reviewed. With regard to the asylum crisis, it is being checked whether everything was properly tendered and whether everything was done correctly, because it all happened very quickly at that time. That research is carried out by the Court of Auditors at Fedasil and with the partners. So I can tell you in all conscience that this is the best way to follow that passage in the coalition agreement. I know that you attach great importance to it. Know that I also attach great importance to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u19	All right, I think it is indeed important to answer the questions of transparency, the way in which certain decisions are made. There has been some criticism of this in the past. If such matters are included in the audit into the quality procedure, I hope that any recommendations will come out that the DVD will have to follow, so that some criticism can be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, when I hear your list, I have the impression that audits are being carried out on the processes with the highest risk, if they go wrong, on the outside world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u21	You mean they're being audited?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u22	Yeah, that's actually the basis of the choices made. However, that is what I am saying by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u23	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to talk about administrative fines. Article 4 of our Aliens Act allows the DVZ to impose an administrative fine of 200 euros on a person crossing the Belgian border illegally. However, the DVZ seems to apply this possibility much wider than the law normally allows. For example, the DVZ often imposes administrative penalties when it is found that a foreigner is staying illegally in the country, for example in connection with an investigation into a marriage of convenience or a cohabitation, or in the case of checks on undeclared work. In a response of 1 December 2016 to a report by Myria condemning administrative fines, the DVZ clarified its practices. The DVZ derives from an illegal residence the suspicion that the persons concerned did not leave the territory via the border post. I would like to inform you that an administrative fine is imposed on the person in illegal residence if the facts do not show that the person concerned has entered the country through the official border posts. It is also imposed on the person who has been ordered to leave the territory and has not done so through the border posts, as demonstrated by the fact that he is still on the territory. The same applies to the person who stayed longer on the territory than was authorised by the visa or regularisation authorisation. By being on the territory, the person concerned proves that he has not left the territory. However, the person who could not carry out his formalities in good time because of the organisation of the government is not, in principle, subject to an administrative penalty. However, there are already several court judgments which state that this practice of the DVD is not legal. The circular of 16 June 2016 on the application of the administrative fine introduces or provides evidence of legislation, but it is not considered binding by the court as it does not concern legislation. In other words, if we want to impose a fine in these cases, this must be clarified in the law. This can't be a decision of the DVZ. For the time being, therefore, fines should only be imposed in the case of illegal border crossing, not in the case of illegal residence, whereas the DVD interprets this as such. I put this question to the previous one about the audit. It is important how certain decisions are made. I come to my questions, Mr Secretary of State. I assume you are aware of the court rulings that state that the DVD may only impose a fine in the event of illegal entry into the country, and not in the event that someone is illegally present on the territory. Following these judgments, do you intend to amend the existing practice, or at least ask the DVD to comply with the case law? If not, why not? Will the imposition of an administrative fine be examined in the audit to which the DVD is now subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u24	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, I am indeed aware of these judgments and, together with my administration, I am looking into the need for adjustments. In my opinion, administrative penalties for illegal residence should be possible. If necessary, I will make a proposal to amend the law. There is indeed a legal problem at the moment. Since September 2016, the administrative fines have raised an amount of 273 418 euros, for 7 880 administrative fines in total. I think these figures are from the end of May. I'll try to get you an update later. With regard to the audit, I believe that it is particularly important that legal clarity be established. I will continue to discuss this with my colleagues from the government. Of the 7 880 people fined, 1 512 paid, some of them in disks. 518 administrative fines were cancelled for legal proceedings and evidence was submitted. There remain therefore 5 850 fines to be paid, but only 1 780 persons are known the address. They are often people whose address is not known. We're working on this. In my view, a legal solution must be sought to enable fines to be collected. The fact that a considerable amount has already been collected shows that this is not a story of: no one will pay for it, that will be nothing, that people have no money, and so on. That doesn't seem to be right at all. Many have paid their fine for illegal entry or residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u25	Madam President, Secretary of State, sometimes we ask for a certain direction, here it was to give you the direction to apply the law. The law is clear, a fine can be imposed when entering the territory illegally. In this sense, therefore, we do not agree with the DVZ's practice of imposing fines on illegal residents. For the sake of clarity, you have our full support, people who are staying here illegally must leave the country and that must be done. The law is clear with regard to fines, the fines are given to people who enter illegally. We have not agreed anywhere in the government agreement that we are going to extend the fine to people who are illegally on the territory. The case law is there, I hope you will instruct the DVZ to comply with the case law. Of course, our group will absolutely cooperate to ensure that as few people as possible enter the territory illegally. For those who are illegal on the territory, a return policy must be pursued. It is absolutely necessary to do so, on voluntary return in the first instance and forced return if necessary. You have been given additional resources to expand the sites in closed centres. However, we are not going to go to a situation where we are going to legalize what is happening illegally today. I ask you to point out to your services that they must apply the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u26	You must listen carefully to what I have said. Maybe sometimes I express myself terribly badly, or maybe some people don't want to hear it. I have made it clear that practice is not being applied at the moment. It is applied in accordance with a number of Belgian judgments in this area. This means that the penalty will only be paid on illegal entry. I have added, however, that this debate must continue within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u27	And that's what I told you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u28	No, you said that I should instruct my administration to apply the law as it should be applied. And I'm telling you, I've already told you that the law has been applied for months, as it was meant to be. You say what my administration has done is illegal and so on, but I don't agree with that. There is now a clear legal ruling on this subject, followed by several judgments in the same sense. We adapt to that. That was discussed, too. It's not like my administration is freewheeling, it's all being discussed with me. This is important for good cooperation. Honesty takes the longest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I note that it is happening, that there is justice, that you will not do it from now on, but that you would think it a good idea to make it legally possible for people in illegal residence...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u30	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u31	I would like to tell you that we absolutely want to participate in a return policy, but not in extending the fines for people who are illegally staying on the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u32	To be sure to continue, I have the impression.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, my question on the readmission agreement with Iraq dates back to April 2017. I don't know why she's only now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, you were not there last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u35	I'm just asking. It's not an accusation. Mr Secretary of State, you have visited Iraq together with the Ministers for the Interior and Defence, and in particular Baghdad and Erbil in Iraqi Kurdistan. There you concluded a number of agreements with the local authorities, which should make it easier in future to force the return of asylum seekers who have been processed, including asylum seekers who have committed criminal offences. As I have just said, we absolutely support a humane and correct return policy. Such a policy is the culmination of any well-functioning asylum policy. In this sense, it is good that you conclude readmission agreements with Iraqi authorities. The terms of the agreement are not yet known to us. We would also like to point out once again that it is important to work on voluntary return, but also that forced return may be necessary. In the past, moreover, it has been shown that in many cases there is no alternative. I therefore hope that, after the agreement has been concluded, you will not only focus on forced return, but also on voluntary and guided return. You already communicated in early 2017 about a case of forced return to Iraq. You spoke at that time of a European scoop. Thus, even before the current agreement, there was apparently an opportunity to force certain persons back to Iraq. Can you outline the modalities of the readmission agreement or the agreements with Iraq, which you concluded during your recent visit? Can we look at these chords somewhere? Are they on one website or the other? In what sense do the agreements offer new opportunities compared to the possibilities that existed before, in January 2017? Can you confirm that, even after the agreements have been concluded, voluntary return remains the first and best option? Is a follow-up mechanism provided for to verify what happens to the persons concerned after the forced return to the country of origin? Is this the case in certain cases or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u36	Mrs Lanjri, an agreement was indeed signed during the mission to Iraq, namely a declaration of intent with the Central Iraqi authorities in Baghdad and a declaration of intent with the Iraqi-Kurdish authorities in Erbil. These agreements endorsed a commitment to cooperation in the fields of migration and security. It included, inter alia, the exchange of information on migration flows and legislation and cooperation on prevention and awareness of the dangers of illegal migration. In addition, some topics about return were included. This is a matter of both voluntary and forced return, which still favours voluntary return. The Iraqi Government will encourage its nationals to return voluntarily to Iraq. Unfortunately, the agreements cannot be shared publicly. The forced return of an Iraqi early this year was an exception. It was very exceptional that a laissez-passer was delivered for a person who was forced back to Baghdad. In addition, I have been negotiating with the Iraqi authorities on the readmission of criminal Iraqis for a long time. In 2016, the Director-General of the Foreign Affairs Office visited Baghdad. In January 2017, I received a delegation in Belgium, with which an oral agreement could already be reached. The delegation agreed to work out a written agreement that I would sign during a visit to Baghdad. In the meantime, this has actually happened. My preference continues to be for voluntary return. In fact, the agreement concluded explicitly states that voluntary return is a priority. Persons who voluntarily return may benefit from reintegration support upon their return. Our local partners keep us informed about what happens to those people. We will also make this possible for forced return. We have already found the necessary partners on the ground and will therefore provide for them for those who are forced to return, if necessary, both monitoring and reintegration support. There was never a forced return to Iraq before that laissez-passer of January or December. I've put an unlikely amount of diplomatic time and energy into this. Together with Minister Reynders, with the Prime Minister, with Minister Jambon and Minister Vandeput, we have improbably invested a lot of diplomatic energy in this and we are one of the few countries that can do so. The last few weeks have been going really well. It is therefore mainly a question of criminal Iraqis, who are a threat to public order or national security. I'm really proud of that, because that wasn't obvious at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u37	Chairperson: Brecht Vermeulen. Many European fellow Members would also like to achieve such agreements, because many Iraqis arrived in 2015, including Sweden, Finland and Germany in particular. We can get to work now. Two weeks ago, we had a follow-up meeting at the Iraqi Embassy with Minister Vandeput and Minister Jambon. That went well. The follow-up is running correctly and well. We get laissez-passers very quickly. I'm really happy about that. I'm very grateful to the ambassador. The Iraqi ambassador here is an old mess in the business. It's thanks to him that Baghdad has moved in the file. Well, that's a good thing to say. I am very grateful to him for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u38	Is the agreement still to consult somewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u39	I haven't done that so far. Those readmission agreements will not be consulted. Those are bilateral agreements. I don't know what the Foreign Office says about that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u40	Perhaps it is an opportunity to look at them in committee through the procedure for your eyes only.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u41	I have no problem in putting such texts on the table; we have already discussed them. I have nothing in my sleeves or pockets. You may look at the agreement in question from me, but it is a bilateral agreement with another country. I don't know what the diplomatic practices are about. I do remember having asked a few times in the previous parliamentary term to look at the read mission agreements, but I never got permission to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u42	So you understand my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u43	I absolutely understand your question. I am in favour of transparency, so there is no problem for me. But it is also about defence and security, areas in which ministers Jambon and Vandeput have competence and I do not. It is also, of course, a diplomatic document, which means that Minister Reynders has to make his point about it. Basically, I'm gonna tell you to look into the deal, but I'm gonna have to check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, I am asking this question because I find that there is a lot of confusion in reality. On 26 April, the city council of Lubbeek approved the introduction of a municipal residence fee. Afterwards, we read in the press that this fee would also apply to asylum seekers, but that was corrected afterwards. In fact, the municipal residence fee cannot under any circumstances be imposed on asylum seekers. However, we believe that you were also responsible for the confusion. For example, we could read on your website: "Our municipality does a lot of effort for refugees with a large asylum centre on its territory and that works well. It is therefore perfectly justified that we should introduce this fee. In the meantime, we understood that the fee paid by the municipality of Lubbeek would apply to refugees. A refugee who is recognised after 8 July 2016 will first receive a stay of limited duration. The refugee shall receive an electronic A card, which shall be valid for five years from the date of the CGVS recognition decision. Afterwards, he or she will receive an electronic B card for undetermined stay. However, the residence fee can only be applied to A cards and in particular only to the renewal and renewal of such cards. The A-card of refugees will not be renewed or renewed under the new regime, to the extent that we have understood it correctly. After five years, an electronic B card is given. It is therefore unclear to us in what way and at what time a municipality could charge a refugee a stay fee. Can you clarify whether or not a municipality can impose a residence fee on refugees? We also read in the press that you believe that municipalities have the full autonomy to regulate the exemptions. From now on, it is not the federal government, but the municipality itself, whether it is asking for a contribution, what is the exact level and who should pay it, you said, following the advice of the Council of State on the Royal Decree. But that seems to us to be a far too far-reaching interpretation of what the Council of State has actually said in the opinion at the Central Bank. The Council merely stated that only two restrictions can be imposed on KB, namely the types of residence permits and the maximum amount, because the legal authorisation was lacking to impose another restriction. The King is not authorized to impose restrictions on the municipalities in favour of certain categories of foreigners who would receive the same type of residence permit. In other words, you could not regulate the exemptions in the Royal Decree because the legal authorisation was not available. That is quite different from saying that municipalities are completely free. Because also municipalities have to apply international rules on this issue. Do you agree with this interpretation? This brings me to my next question. Should refugees and certain other categories of foreigners be exempted by municipalities? The advice with the federal residence fee seems to apply here too. The Council then said, I quote: "International and European rules of law do indeed require certain categories of aliens to enjoy the same rights as the rights granted to residents and thus oblige the author of the preliminary draft budget to provide for exemptions. It is also necessary to examine whether the list of all categories of foreign nationals to be exempted from payment of the allowance under international or European law is complete. Do you consider that the Council of State's reasoning should also apply to the municipal residence fee? To what extent and for what categories are the municipalities obliged to provide for such exemptions anyway? It is clear that the scheme creates a great deal of uncertainty among the municipalities, just because the limits of autonomy are unclear. This ambiguity threatens to result in endless discussions in many municipal councils and then in unnecessary legal proceedings. We had already warned about this in the discussion of the draft law. In Het Laatste Nieuws we read that Bart De Wever even wants to apply the fee to asylum seekers, while you have clearly ruled out the possibility to do so. In fact, I had a discussion with him in the city council about this. Will you clarify to the municipalities how they can complete the autonomy, what international and other rules they should take into account, etc.? In what way will you do this? When it is clear that refugees and other categories should not be charged a fee, do you intend to draw up a debriefing letter? Can you clarify the cities and municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u46	Mr President, I do not know if it has already been announced, but I had informed you that I have to leave at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u47	I just wanted to say, after the answer, that you must leave the Chamber at 12.15 p.m. at the latest. After this question, we still have time for one or two questions, depending on how long a question and answer will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u48	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, I am always happy when it comes to Lubbeek in Parliament. A municipality may collect a fee for the renewal, renewal or replacement of the certificate of entry in the alien register of temporary residence. As far as refugees are concerned, the residence permit which establishes the admission to a limited period of residence is indeed valid for five years. Consequently, the municipality can collect a fee for them when, for example, this electronic A card has to be replaced because the residence permit has been damaged, lost, stolen or destroyed, because the photograph no longer matches the holder's facial features or because the fingerprints are so damaged that they can no longer be compared with those on the residence permit. The Council of State has stated that the King is not authorized to impose restrictions on the municipality in favour of certain categories of foreigners who would receive the same type of residence permit and that it is for the municipality to provide, inter alia, for possible exemptions. The municipalities must of course apply the international rules. According to the opinion of the Council of State, it is for the municipalities to decide autonomously whether or not to introduce a fee for the renewal, renewal and replacement of the residence permits provided for in the proposed decision to provide for any exemptions and to fix the amount of the fee in accordance with the provisions of the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u49	President: Conseil Degroote. We have, moreover, put the question of whether or not to introduce exemptions specifically to the Council of State, together with the request for an opinion on this Royal Decree. The fee in question should be distinguished from the fee to be paid for certain applications for authorisation or admission to stay, since the finality is different. The current fee therefore constitutes the fair remuneration for administrative services provided by the municipalities for the renewal, extension or replacement of the certificate of entry in the temporary residence register. In addition, for refugees in particular, reference can be made to Article 29 (2) of the International Convention on the Status of Refugees, which does not preclude the application to refugees of the laws and regulations on charges relating to the provision to foreigners of administrative documents, including identity papers. The above answers show that municipal autonomy is clear in this respect. If it turns out that the law and the KB would cause problems of interpretation and application over time, a letter of conversion may be used. However, I do not think there is any further ambiguity. The decision in our municipality was taken by a very large majority, if you are interested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u50	In Antwerp, too, just to be clear. I don't mean to bother you, but refugees get an A card, which is valid for five years. Imagine if the photo remained in order and was not destroyed, then during those five years no fee could be charged to foreigners if they were recognised as refugees. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u51	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u52	Only for a renewal, not for an extension, because in the case of an extension, a B card is transferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u54	So it's not really for those refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u55	(...) If they have to go to the town hall.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u56	That's just a minimal...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u57	Most asylum seekers recognised as refugees will not continue to live in Lubbeek. Most people don't stay in our congregation. A number of them continue to live in our congregation. Well, that's what it's probably about. Most asylum seekers do not continue to live in rural municipalities. That's just the whole discussion. Why are they going to the cities? If I am not mistaken, you have even tabled a bill on this subject, which does not really hold the test of the Council of State. The problem is that most asylum seekers do not continue to live in small municipalities. However, the city council can decide autonomously to introduce a fee for the refugees who do stay there. They have to renew their card anyway. That makes perfect sense. Is that gonna make millions for Lubbeek? No, but that's what I communicated to the city council. I've always been honest and correct in my communication. I also made a direct correction by clarifying that it was not about asylum seekers. That other people say other things, I'm not responsible for that. I know what I'm saying and I'm Secretary of State. That's how I always explained it. For me it is also a signal to the people, but we are not going to repeat the city council of Lubbeek here. You'll have to question your representative from there. It is often enough here the city council of Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u58	You can be a little cynical about these city councils. I can only see that this is the reality there. We have had the same discussion in the city council of Antwerp, if I may say so. I think it is best that you clarify things with the chairman of your party, the mayor of Antwerp and the chairman of the city council of Antwerp. He thinks this also applies to refugees. Why is that? Look at the city council report if you don't believe me. I'm not the kind of guy who says business like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u59	We're not gonna start a discussion here. Do you have a brief reply? Mr De Vriendt also has a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u60	Mr President, may I say one more thing. I'm just giving advice. It is systematically communicated that it is about refugees. That's not in line with the regulations. I would like this to be made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u61	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the Sunday of 16 April, you will be informed that Belgium has granted a humanitarian visa to 600 Syrian Christians over the last two years. In 2015, a group of Christians collectively received a humanitarian visa, after mediation by a Belgian Christian organisation. Firstly, are there any among the 600 Syrian Christians you speak of, people who have collectively received a visa? Has the Christian organisation been mediated again or was it individual initiatives? Secondly, did these Christians get visas for a short stay or for a long stay? Have they all come to Belgium effectively, so the 600 people you spoke of over the last two years? Thirdly, have the Christians from the first collective group now applied for asylum and received it in Belgium? If not, what status do they currently have in our country? Fourthly, can the other Christians also apply for asylum? Has that already happened, with the 600 people we're talking about? Finally, did you also issue humanitarian visas to non-Christian Syrians at the same time? Do you specifically issue humanitarian visas to other Syrian religious minorities, such as Shiites, Druzes, Jezidis and Alawites? How many people are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u62	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, after the collective operation in 2015, in which 244 Christians from Aleppo could come to our country via humanitarian visas, I received many additional questions, both for individuals and families as well as for larger groups. It was mainly, but not exclusively, about questions from Syrian Christians. Each application was considered on a case-by-case basis. The Syrians who came to Belgium as part of the collective operation did so with a Schengen visa limited to Belgium. In the meantime, they have all been recognised as refugees and have thus been granted an unlimited right of residence. Later, in line with the case law of the European Court of Justice, the practice was adapted and opted for the issue of long-stay visas. In practice, the difference in the validity of the visa may not make much difference, since they all applied for asylum after arrival and then obtained a right of residence on this basis. Given the relatively short treatment time of Syrian asylum files, the vast majority of these persons have now acquired a permanent right of residence. Those who obtained a visa have also travelled effectively to Belgium. In some cases it proved impossible for certain persons to leave Syria and obtain a visa at our embassy in Lebanon, for example because they were not allowed by their employer to leave the country. Let me be clear, these 600 Syrian Christians should be seen as an additional effort on top of the humanitarian visas that my services deliver every day or our substantial commitments on resettlement and relocation. I know you think this shouldn't be taken into account. Myria agrees. I fundamentally disagree with that. In my view, these are all humanitarian visas, all of which fall under the heading of safe and legal access routes to Europe, which many NGOs, civil society people and politicians such as yourself have been advocating for years. In this sense, we must be consistent and take account of this number. I don't see why relocation or resolution wouldn't be included, especially resolution. These people also come from war zones or neighbouring countries of war zones. In that case, if a humanitarian visa is given, I would not know why it is worth less than a humanitarian visa based on Article 9. I therefore fundamentally disagree with the way in which Myria proposed this in the report. I understand they're doing something like that again. That they mainly do so, but I will continue to communicate that I think that those numbers should be counted. That has always been the case in the past. Only, ten years ago, there was no such thing as a resettlement effort. It only started a few years ago. Since then, these cases have been counted. So I didn't start pimping my grades, it's just always been that way. I think that is also right, because they are humanitarian visas. Okay, that happens in the context of an international commitment, but Belgium should not. Relocation is something else. Belgium has also voted in favour of this. That is a discussion that we may be able to have another time, but you certainly know my position on this one. We also discussed this on Twitter. In 2016, no less than 1 185 visas were issued for humanitarian reasons. This is almost a fivefold increase compared to the 208 visas delivered in 2014. Of the 1 185 visas delivered in 2016, more than half, 654 people, came from Syria. No statistics are kept on the beliefs of visa applicants. It is therefore impossible to make a statistical breakdown. However, it is obvious that the vast majority of Syrian asylum seekers are Muslims, in proportion to their share of the Syrian population. For humanitarian visas, they are almost all Syrian Christians. If tomorrow the question was to be asked to launch a rescue operation for, for example, alevites, druzens, jezidis, or any other religious minority, then I will definitely look into it. You know that Parliament has adopted a clear resolution on religious minorities. Are those 1 084 humanitarian visas Muslims? Because that is the sensitive aspect of the debate, the reproach of religious discrimination/religious racism that I would apply, one has to dare. Muslims are among them too. But we don't ask for faith. On the basis of Article 9, we do not request religion from a brother, sister or other family member. However, it is clear that there are also people who have Islam as a religion. This does not apply to the specific rescue operation, because it is specific to religious minorities. In this way, I believe that we are pursuing a correct policy. Besides, even in all relocation and resettlement operations, faith is not screened. Let's be clear about that, too. One must always put things in perspective and put them next to each other. We're trying to do our part. You'll say it needs to go up even further for you. I agree with that. The solution to the asylum problem in Europe is to move towards a system of legal and safe road. However, there are still differences of opinion as to what we should do with people who take the boat and yet arrive. You say we still have to add them. I say that this is no longer possible, one has to choose or share, one cannot and/or do, otherwise things will go completely wrong. You should know that the entries into Italy are currently entries from countries with less than 20% of the qualification. With a view to the safe and legal roads, let Europe agree to fly in half a million a year. A number of Visegrad countries will not agree, but if one can still find a consensus on this, one still has a problem. That will not be Nigerians or Malians because the degree of recognition for these countries is super low. This is only about people who actually have a high chance of recognition, otherwise they will not be flying in, that would be too crazy, because then they will have to fly back after a few months, of course nobody will. If they continue to take the boat, there is still no solution. Your story of legal and safe ways, on which all these NGOs are always flaxing, is a strong point, in which I also believe. But that's not a substitute. Because the problem with the Nigerians will still not be solved. It is not because there are legal and safe roads, that fewer Nigerians will try to reach Europe by boat. That has nothing to do with each other. It's sometimes overlooked. That is also an important element in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, my reply is already contained in your reply. You are communicating about the belief, because you recently stated that in two years' time 600 Syrian Christians received a humanitarian visa. Then why shouldn't you be able to give the numbers for the other beliefs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u64	The rescue operations are specifically targeted at those communities and people who come asking for them. This is how things are set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u65	Are you talking about those 600 Syrian Christians?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u66	Yeah, I'm definitely talking about those 600 Christians. Of the rest treated by resettlement, there are currently weekly arrivals. I pointed out that I will fulfil my international commitments by September 2017. Then get the statistics again. They're getting in real fast. You thought it was slow. I thought it didn't work out at the time, because everything was full. Now, however, they arrive very quickly. We will live up to all our commitments. That's not what's being asked. UNHCR does not ask what religion is in the camps. It would unleash quite an international riot, should the organization ask. The same applies to relocation. That's just wrong. The possibility of recourse to Article 9, which we also grant every day, is another way. We're not asking for religion. However, that file is specific to the rescue operation. Those 600 people involved are all covered by the rescue operations. That's the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u67	For the sake of clarity, in two years' time Syrian Christians were granted only humanitarian visas within the framework of collective rescue operations. You have not, therefore, issued an individual humanitarian visa to the Syrian Christians at any time in the last two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u68	In the context of resolution, I don't know what their faith is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u69	I'm talking about a humanitarian visa tout court.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u70	What exactly is your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u71	You are communicating in the newspaper that you have given 600 Syrian Christians a humanitarian visa in the last two years. Is this all about collective rescue operations? Did you not issue an individual humanitarian visa to a Syrian Christian at any time during those two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u72	Of these 600 cases, the majority concern collective files, i.e. large groups, such as groups of 40 or 20 people. There are a number of families who specifically asked through someone who was already here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u73	Mr Secretary of State, that means that it is not just about the collective rescue of those 600 Christians. However, you can tell us that this is a total of 600 cases. So you also seem to know the beliefs of individual procedures. So what are the other beliefs in Syrian files to which you have issued an individual humanitarian visa?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u74	I don't know. How'd it go? We did that rescue operation in Aleppo. In addition, there have been a number of NATO operations running. By the way, there are still rescue operations in progress. Then there is a limited number of Syrian families to whom, because they have family or know people through the rescue operation or because they are from the same neighborhood, we have given a visa. Of the rest, we do not ask for the visa under Article 9 of the Treaty. Most of them will be Muslims. There's almost no other way to de facto do that. The same applies to resettlement and relocation. That is not asked for. I don't understand what you're trying to control.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u75	Together you will get 600 visas. So you are aware of the number of individual humanitarian visas issued to Syrian Christians...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u76	That'll be even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u77	... unless you're just gonna launch a wild guess and say it's gonna be about 600, a total of two years. You have communicated about the creed. I now want to know what other beliefs from Syria have given you humanitarian visas over the last two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u78	[[That's over 600.]] There are 600 specific cases, but those other hundreds of humanitarian visas will have been Christian families, but I do not know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u79	I keep finding it very unclear. It's a confusing answer. You seem to have an insight into the beliefs in individual procedures for humanitarian visas when it comes to Christians, but not about other religious beliefs. I think that's bizarre, but okay. In substance, we have never said that they should not be included in humanitarian visas, but we have always argued for numerical clarity, and your answer to my parliamentary question does not improve that clarity. More fundamentally, I believe that you have steered the debate in a dangerous direction over the last two years, by communicating and selecting on the basis of faith. That's a slippery slope. We have to assume vulnerability. That may be the only criterion, and it will cover a whole series of beliefs, minorities and so on. Vulnerability should have pushed you forward and not belief or religion. Apart from that, I didn't get a lot of answers to my question for a numerical breakdown. You do communicate about it on the basis of faith, but if I ask for broken down figures, then you cannot answer when it comes to religions other than Christians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u80	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u81	I think you have not complained and it is about time to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u82	I do not agree that this would be clear. I don't understand what's not clear. There is relocation, resettlement, Article 9, the usual classic road, the embassies where you can apply for humanitarian visas and then there are the rescue operations. That's 600 in two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u83	That's different from what you just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u84	That's not true at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u85	We'll read the report on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u86	Are we gonna close the discussion? After all, the Secretary of State must leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u87	That's the answer: 600 collective rescue operations, with the exception of a few families. Everything else went through the classic way: resettlement, relocation and classic through Article 9. There's no record of faith, so I can't give it to you. It's obvious, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic678x.u88	It's not clear at all. You have just said collective rescue operations, most of them 600, and then individual procedures. Together we arrive at 600. After asking for clarity when it comes to other minorities, religious minorities, other religions or beliefs, you have said that you have no figures on belief, unless it is a wild guess. It'll be about 600. More fundamentally, I do not consider your communication based on religion as a selection criterion a sensible option for an Secretary of State for Asylum. Vulnerability should be paramount here, regardless of religion and belief.
