ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u2	Mr President, this morning we took note of new developments, including the Prime Minister's statement on the energy pact. I have recalled that we want the Prime Minister to be present, as usual, during the debate on the budget, especially since this work is also concerned with the policy notes and therefore, a fortiori, with the question of the energy pact, which is at the heart of one of the general policy notes. You told us that the Prime Minister was held by international duties, which we already knew. And you made a commitment to contact him in order to know when he was returning to Belgium and whether it was possible to hold a debate today or tomorrow in his presence on the various current issues. Just before the closing of this morning's sitting, you told us that the Prime Minister was unable to join us this afternoon, tonight or tomorrow. However, when we left this chamber, we learned that the Prime Minister was fully available to organise a Kern tomorrow to discuss the issue of the energy pact. Mr President, I would like more information. What exactly did the Prime Minister's office tell you? Can you tell me precisely when the latter will be in Belgium so that the necessary debate can be held in the House? Why do you think I'm asking you this question? Because you know, like me, that tonight, our work will be relatively long. I would be surprised if the Prime Minister spent an additional night in Paris and then returned to Belgium to take part in the Kern scheduled for tomorrow. His return is therefore expected at a certain time. We could therefore organise the debate that many of my colleagues want at this time. I am not the only one who asked for the Prime Minister's presence. I therefore do not understand why this debate in the presence of the Prime Minister is not being held, when a Kern is being organised on the issue of the energy pact. Of course, political circumstances are delicate and difficult for the Prime Minister, his government and his majority. We have heard various statements in this regard. We note that the Prime Minister is facing difficulties and that he is obliged to make two different communications in less than ten hours, one in the newspaper Le Soir and another by means of a press release. At the Conference of Presidents, I pointed out that the Speaker of the House should, in these difficult times, be above the fray. In the face of the Prime Minister's first answer – that this meeting is not possible – and his incoherence with his readiness to organize a Kern tomorrow, you must react. You have to react! On the other hand, we too, at the Conference of Presidents, must organise our work so that - the Prime Minister will be available in view of the organisation of a Kern - we can organise a debate in Parliament on these issues. It is about respect for our parliament and democracy. The Prime Minister speaks in the media through two communications and we would not be able to question him! You will agree that there is a problem. Its international obligations cease tonight at an hour to be specified and resume tomorrow afternoon. However, some flexibility has already prevailed in the past. I reiterate my request in view of the additional information we have received so that Parliament can be respected and so that we can discuss this matter with the Prime Minister. This is indeed a political problem within its majority and government. We will have a debate with Minister Marghem earlier. It is on the agenda. Its policy note will be discussed. We are asking, and I think we are not alone, to have a debate on the political situation with the Prime Minister. He can't run away from his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u3	Mr President, when I hear that the Prime Minister has apologized for being abroad, when there is a meeting of the church cabinet and he is therefore in the interior, I can only make one legal decision: the apology for absence is without object. Can you confirm or deny that the nuclear cabinet meeting is taking place? If you find that place, it seems perfectly normal for the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u4	Mr. President, my goal is not to play hide-and-seek with the Prime Minister to try to find out where he is. No matter how, his presence in the House is necessary this week to answer questions that Minister Marghem cannot answer. Of course, it can answer some questions, but only the Prime Minister can answer questions about the major conflict that exists within the coalition regarding the exit of nuclear power. I have addressed a question to the Prime Minister on this matter. It would be unacceptable if it were not for him to come to answer them tomorrow, or in any case in plenary, at the time reserved for topical questions. The plenary can possibly be moved from Thursday to Friday, but it is also a possibility. But I think that he will have to be present at the next plenary meeting to answer this question. Enough arguments have been given on this so-called "cache game"; I will not enter it but say that the Prime Minister can be present if that is his will.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u5	Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u6	Mr President, I find the situation distressing! We have the impression that the Prime Minister is running away from his responsibilities. Yes, it makes you scream on the benches of the MR – I understand it well! I understand your frustration, your embarrassment. But at the same time, there is one thing that is particularly striking and disturbing today: a small Council of Ministers is announced for tomorrow. And while you mandated your services, Mr President, to see if the Prime Minister could make himself available for Parliament, you were told that it was impossible and that he would not come to Parliament as he was about to meet his small Council of Ministers. What is possible for the small Council of Ministers is therefore not possible for Parliament! I let you appreciate the disrespect shown to the institution you preside over! Therefore, Mr President, I believe it is essential to convene the Conference of Presidents. If other colleagues support me in this process, perhaps we could together organize our work so that we can consider the most appropriate moment – as soon as possible, of course! Today, as early as tomorrow, and even if necessary according to another formula, but in any case as soon as possible: welcome, receive, invite the Prime Minister to come and discuss with us the problems that are affecting his government today. For the question is whether the Prime Minister is still supported by the majority as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u7	I will try not to repeat what my fellow Members have already said. I think it is clear to everyone here, including the members of the majority, that the government has a problem, especially the Prime Minister. Mr President, you have just announced, at a quarter past one, that the Prime Minister cannot be here to answer our questions on European matters. In part, I can understand that. There are indeed points that need to be discussed at European level. However, he forgets that there are discussions going on here in our country and that there have been contradictory statements. Moreover, when we hear now that the Prime Minister will be here tomorrow, in particular for the meeting of the nuclear cabinet, which he has convened, indicating that there is indeed a major problem, it is really unacceptable that he is not available to Parliament. Mr President, I think you are responsible for this. You are the President of Parliament. Let me remind you once again: you are the chairman of all of us. As chairman of such an important institution, you cannot accept it. The Prime Minister is available to the government and convenes an emergency meeting, but is not available to Parliament at the same time, because he would be in Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u8	Mr President, we would not be here now if, since last night, there had not been this statement by the N-VA and if, this morning, almost at the same time, there had not been an official statement by the Prime Minister and an official statement by a group of the majority with two completely contradictory positions. I'm sure you've seen it, but I invite you to check your group's Twitter account in the House. At this time, there are two official versions diametrically opposed between the Prime Minister and a majority party. The others, too, maybe. I hear the silence of Open Vld, MR and CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u9	No, no, the MR has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u10	Mr President, at least the Prime Minister is absent. It's one thing. I hear he'll be here tomorrow, unless you tell me it's an electronic kern. But I imagine that it is a Kern that will be held in Belgium and that he will be physically present. The least we can expect from a prime minister - vis-à-vis the opposition but above all from citizens, businesses, investors who have been in circles for ages waiting for this energy pact - is that he comes here either to give the government's position or to explain that he no longer has the support of one of the parties of his majority. The majority is directly responsible for this situation. Even if the Prime Minister is embarrassed at the roundabouts, he must assume it and come to the Chamber. Mr President, do we have your commitment that he will come to the House tomorrow, since he will be physically present in Belgium at the time of the Kern? If this is not the case or if you do not give us a very clear answer on this, then I agree with my colleague's request to hold a Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u11	Mr President, it is not because we allow Mrs Fonck to speak in the first place that this means that we have nothing to say. It's just a matter of politeness. Secondly, I will not go back to the debate, since I have already explained the reason for the Prime Minister's absence. It is participating in a very important summit on terrorism in the Sahel. It would be unacceptable for the Belgian chair to be empty. Mr Nollet may know, but I do not know when this summit will end. This will depend on the uncertainties of the discussions. I also don't know if a Kern will meet tomorrow, even if we announce the possibility. If so, he can't be there anyway and come here. It does not yet have the gift of ubiquity. From noon onwards, he will then take part in preparatory coordination meetings for the European Summit. He will therefore not be present in the afternoon. This information was also known. Mr President, I know we will talk about this five or six times today. It is a great regret that the Prime Minister is not here, but I will remind you that there have already been precedents and that Prime Minister Charles Michel was one of the most diligent in Parliament. If we compare with his predecessor, we can see that the numbers of his presence are eloquent. So, Mr President, I would like us to return to today's debate, that is to say the budgetary debate. We will debate the energy pact. Marghem will participate, and the opposition will be able to ask her any questions she wants. As far as I know, Mrs Marghem is still part of the government. It will therefore be able to respond on behalf of the government. Mr President, I would like us to move forward, because I believe that we are currently witnessing a bad play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u12	Mr Nollet, one last word!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u13	No, Mr President, I prefer to have a dialogue and a debate rather than the last word. Mr President, you have before you a request from several Group Heads to convene the Conference of Presidents. In this type of situation, and depending on the background, such an application is lawful. I therefore call on you to organise it as soon as possible, so as to examine the solution that will enable us to get out of the situation. It was confirmed that the Prime Minister could be available by noon. It remains to be seen what it gives priority to. Is a crisis kern a priority over an explanation in Parliament? Perhaps it is possible to combine the two or are there other options, as colleagues have mentioned? I believe that a Conference of Presidents is required as soon as possible. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u14	Mr President, I would at any rate like to point to the hypocrisy of the opposition. We must be aware that in all these summits, apart from official meetings, there are a lot of bilateral meetings. They may not be on the agenda, but they exist. That is what enables the Prime Minister to represent our country validly and usefully. I personally do not believe that this debate should be held today. Let the Prime Minister work in Paris! Let him represent our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u15	I note that at least three and perhaps more group leaders are asking for the convening of the Conference of Presidents. It is customary to respond to such requests. So I call the Conference of Presidents immediately. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u16	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed. You will allow me to move on to the point where we have remained in favour of the suspension, in the sense that I have heard the various members of the opposition who are asking for the Prime Minister's presence today, tomorrow or possibly I shall be speaking about what was said in the Conference of Presidents on another day, Friday or Saturday. I must say that I understand that question. I would indeed like the Prime Minister to be here. I have consulted the services of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister on a third occasion. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that the answer is negative: the Prime Minister cannot be here because of a whole series of meetings which prevent him from being here. I regret that, but that being said, I take note of that at the same time, because it is not in my ability and power, fortunately but, to advance people manu militari. The only thing that remains, as far as our meetings are concerned today and tomorrow, is that a motion may be tabled, on which we shall then vote in due course, in order to request the Prime Minister's presence. There is another possibility that falls outside our meetings today and tomorrow. There is also a proposal for a change of agenda to hold a plenary meeting on Friday or Saturday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u17	Mr President, thank you for taking the steps quickly. Allow me to deplore the fact that the Prime Minister does not deign to include in his agenda the request of the Speaker of the House, repeated three times, to come to answer the questions that the opposition wishes to ask him. In the annals of parliament, this is a very rare fact. On three occasions, the Speaker of the House made an approach to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister refused to act on it. Mr President, you have done well to remind us of our rights. I am thinking of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure or other possibilities. I will take the time to consult with my colleagues because the fact is important enough for us to mark the deal. There will be a debate with Minister Marghem earlier, but we want to address the political problem of the divergence between the various components of this majority. Earlier, I was using the conditional but I can't use it anymore. Things are clear: Prime Minister Charles Michel seeks to escape his responsibilities, he refuses to come to parliament. We offered him the opportunity to come Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and he does not deign to come. I can only come to the conclusion that today, in Belgium, we have a Prime Minister who is running away from his responsibilities, who dares not come to face Parliament, who is unable to take account of the current differences. I find this very serious, Mr President. To my knowledge, there is no precedent where a Speaker of the House has been swept away three times by the Prime Minister. This is a real political problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u18	To be complete, I would add that there will be oral questions tomorrow afternoon. The relevant ministers will be present. The relevant ministers will be there. I do not need to remind you that the government is one and indivisible; the answer they will give therefore binds the entire government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u19	Mr President, Mr Nollet's presentation of this incident is scandalous and shameful. The Prime Minister is not running away from his responsibilities. We have explained in detail, already yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, and three times in this plenary, why he is absent today. It has international obligations. He's sorry. His calendar was shelled. Mr Nollet's remarks are unacceptable, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u20	Mr. Clarinval, I don't know why you're so upset. I can understand that you're terribly embarrassed to be surrounded by what's going on. The Prime Minister was called three times by the Speaker of the House and, although the agenda was expanded, he refused three times to come. I think we need to draw one conclusion: the Prime Minister is not in a position today or tomorrow, and probably not the day after tomorrow, to make a statement on behalf of the government on the energy pact and the exit from nuclear power, simply because he is not sure he has the support of the parties of the majority. That is the point that needs to be made here. The question therefore remains as to whether there is still a government and whether the Prime Minister still has the support of a majority on these issues. That is the point that must be made. Mr President, I thank you for having done this on three occasions. It is regrettable and irresponsible of a Prime Minister not to come here, not to assume his responsibilities and not to dare to commit himself on behalf of the government and the four parties of this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u21	Mr President, we are facing a power vacancy because the Prime Minister, by not coming to Parliament despite your three appeals, actually shows that he no longer has a government, that he may not even have a majority. We ask him to come in within three days. We propose Thursday. It's not right. We propose Friday. It's still not right. We propose Saturday. Obviously, it still doesn't work. When is it going to fix it? Perhaps we should finally ask him if there is not a half an hour in the six months that may come when the Prime Minister would agree to come and devote a little time to the humble parliamentarians we are! Mr. Nollet said, "He's running away from his responsibilities." Of course he's running away from his responsibilities! For the rest, it is also a lack of courage to come to clarify the current state and position of the government and your majority on the energy pact. That's the question! Yes, there is a power vacancy from the moment the Prime Minister decided to desert Parliament and flee his responsibilities!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u22	Mr President, I have to say that the way things are done can only be regarded as misapprehension for Parliament. Yesterday we indeed tried to reach agreement at the Conference of Presidents on the work on the budget debate. We talked there about the Prime Minister's absence. For example, it was said that the Prime Minister could not possibly come to our country because he had obligations. We have agreed to this, but today we see that there is a debate in the government. The question was not to question the Minister responsible; we would like to hear from the Prime Minister, who is nevertheless at the head of the government, what his government is like. That is the question we are discussing today. If one continues to arrive with the excuse that the Prime Minister has obligations abroad and therefore cannot come, then I would honestly like to know why he can come to the nuclear cabinet meeting tomorrow and not to Parliament. That is what we find displeasure about, not the fact that he has obligations abroad. For one group, he can make exceptions, but for Parliament, of which we are all elected Members, who are entitled to an explanation from the Prime Minister as head of government on whether the majority is for or against the core exit and whether there is a problem with the government or not, he cannot. I would like to put that question to the Prime Minister and not to the Minister responsible, Mr President. It is simply ignored; it is not taken into account. They are not even prepared to find a solution. We're not asking for the impossible. He's an hour away from here and he can clear himself for a meeting of the nuclear cabinet. We don't pin him down at any time; we're flexible in that. If he has any respect for Parliament, he can release himself for at least an hour and take his responsibility here. He does not do that when it comes to the Energy Pact; he will not do that when it comes to the texts that still have to be submitted around the Summer Agreement. We shall also see a spectacle, which is not worth repeating, Mr President. Time and time again, Parliament is just being praised. We, as an opposition, are very disappointed about this, and that is what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u23	We will see in the course of the day, the evening or possibly the night whether there will be any motions. We are now going back to the budget debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u24	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u25	Mr President, I propose that we return to the budget debate. For example, the 2018 budget estimates tax revenue at 119 billion euros. Perhaps this afternoon's budget deserves Parliament's attention in order to debate it thoroughly. Last December, I started my speech by pointing a finger at the government. You will recall that the documents were submitted very late at the time. As a result, the budget negotiations were difficult. However, if it is good, it can also be said. This year, thanks to the work of the government, thanks to the chairman of our committee, thanks to the detailed notes from the Court of Auditors and the European Commission, we have had a very thorough debate on the budget for 2018. This morning I listened with the necessary attention to Eric Van Rompuy, who puts himself in the camp of the pessimists. I must disappoint you, Mr Van Rompuy, because I am in the camp of optimists. I must honestly say that I have also spent hours in another forum explaining that the revenue estimated would be realised. That was pretty much the Achilles tendon of your speech, but let me be honest: the government's track record in 2017 actually proves that they are on the right track. Nor should we deny the fact that some of the crucial reforms included in the 2018 budget, the so-called Summer Agreement, were only knocked off last Friday. Yesterday, the Finance Committee started examining the report of the National Bank. We are prepared, Madam and Minister, to continue on Friday and Saturday. So let us be very clear: Parliament's goodwill will certainly not be affected. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms that are on the table in this House are far too important, in my view, to continue to drag on and fall into procedural debates. I believe that we owe it to our citizens and businesses to achieve results here. A redrafting of corporate tax, creating the possibility of making an untaxed contribution for the first time for a limited amount and a security tax: these are major and important reforms which, of course, also deserve a proper parliamentary debate. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2018 budget in particular. I've been thinking about how I would formulate it, but I read at one point: "A budget, a measure for nothing." Just make it the following, Minister: 'A budget tailored to our citizens and businesses'. This is certainly not a measure of nothing! It is our ambition to rebalance our budget. That was also the somewhat melancholic discourse of colleague Van Rompuy, who returned to the 80s. Together with Mr Dewael, we have been through the debates in this hemisphere in the 1980s. We then came from a period when it was thought that debts would disappear like snow before the sun. Meanwhile, we know that this fairy tale is unfortunately not true. I think it is important to maintain our objective of achieving a balanced budget. There are mitigating circumstances. The outcome of the financial crisis and certainly the unexpected impact of the terrorist threat, which has also hit our country, have made us deviate somewhat from the path in 2016. The year 2017 is certainly not a lost year, on the contrary. We will try to close 2018 with a structural deficit of 0.8 percent of GDP, as is currently envisaged. Everyone wanted better, but I believe that the path that is being followed is realistic. Under the motto 'where there is a will, there is a way', I should like to say that we must get our hands on the budgetary team in the next few months. Members of the government, budgetary laxity would be irresponsible in the next 15 months. I believe that we should use every hour and every day. This is not the work of either of you, Madam and Minister, this is the work of a government team. Everyone has to look after their department's expenditures and roads. In other words, a budget in balance remains the objective. There's no spending more than it comes in. Not at home. Not in the congregation, and certainly not in a country. Now that the economy is attracting, whose merit it may be, let us wallow in that moment. We once experienced a period of more than 3 % economic growth. As a former budget minister, life will be much more pleasant, so I can tell you. But just as well, at the time of the financial crisis, we went below the level of EUR 4 per cent. Then all sails had to be added. Now that the economy is back on track, we must try to move a step faster and seek a clear time frame to balance the objective of the budget. But I have to be honest, too. It is a debate that may not be held often enough. I believe that there are very good reasons why we have not achieved that balance today: not because we did not want to do so, but because we have, as it were, given priority to another objective. I am sure that this other priority, namely economic recovery, is so important. Nor should we forget that the effort that had to be made was enormous. The deficit in summer 2014 was still 3.2 %. Around EUR 13 billion had to be sought to strike a balance. Today we have come two thirds of the way. As far as the structural deficit is concerned, we have made an effort of 2.2 %. We're going to 0.8%. The two thirds of which I spoke correspond to 1.4 %. I think this is an important merit that we should not sweep under the mat. There's been a lot of hard work. There's been a cleanup. A second question is: how can we balance the budget? Then there are several possibilities. Tomorrow we can introduce ten new taxes. I remember having abolished taxes in my municipality on balconies, gas pumps, horses and so on. Creativity was also very great in the past. I think this would be an easy solution. This government didn't choose to do that. In the short term it may be possible to achieve a balance, but in the long term it is structuralally damaging the economy. This has been proved sufficiently, especially in our country, where the government is already skimming more than half of its prosperity. The other alternative is blunt cutting, billions of cuts in expenditure. After the Finance Act, this is certainly not an easy task for the federal government, when it is seen that more than half of the tax revenue is flicked away the next day to all possible entities in our country and to Europe. I do not think it would be wise to cut and clean up blindly by possibly increasing taxes. I believe that a responsible budget restructuring, accompanied by a strong re-launch policy, is the only way to achieve the goal. This relaunch policy, which consists of two pillars, tax cuts and structural reforms, is beginning to take shape. We are now beginning to see the path that is being followed, which means that we are reducing the public debt, which was 54% in 2014 in our country. As far as tax reductions are concerned, in a country with 54% of public property, I think it is high time we reward people who work and who do that work. It's okay to work. It's okay to pay. The figures have already been mentioned a few times today, but it cannot be stressed enough that the tax shift, which represents an average wage of around EUR 100 and a minimum wage of around EUR 146 per month by the end of 2019, is a very important measure. But also large and small companies see their taxes fall, to the regret of whom it envies. Think of the patronial contributions, the social contributions of the self-employed and soon the reduced corporate tax. It is also important to note that yesterday's article in De Tijd was another warning that we should be careful, at the same time as this measure, to ensure that the wage handicap that we had completely eliminated in relation to our neighbouring countries remains under control. For all entrepreneurs, the fact that we are finally in control of the wage handicap is an important boost, especially in an economy that lives on export. However, we must be vigilant, because yesterday we read that we are in danger of moving in a different direction. Our companies are competitive again. That means they're recruiting people. Whether it's 200 000 or 242 000 extra jobs, the statistics will prove it afterwards, after 2019. In any case, our companies are doing an excellent job, thanks to the government, which has pursued a good, accompanying policy. As Mr Dedecker has just said, the overall tax burden will fall substantially for the first time during this period of government. It is about EUR 8.8 billion in cost reductions for people and businesses. It is important to underline this, because if we had not reduced taxes, we would probably have been able to achieve our budgetary targets by now, when we have opted for a slightly longer-term path, where we are helping more people to work and provide for the economy and prosperity. In this way we will create scope for increasing revenue and reducing expenditure, particularly in social security. If we can continue this policy in a structural way over the next five to ten years, the budget reform, as I predicted last year in the Chair, will go the right way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u26	Mr Van Mechelen, I have always received the message from the majority throughout this period of government, which, by the way, we have disputed, that the tax shift would be fiscally neutral. Other bodies also dispute that message, but that remains the motto of the government. I can now hear you say that without the tax reduction, the budgetary objective would have been met. If I understand correctly, you implicitly, even explicitly, acknowledge that the tax shift was not budget-neutral.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u27	Mr Vanvelthoven, the tax shift is one measure for reducing the burden in the budget. As you said, it had to be budget neutral. Well, it is to a large extent budget-neutral. However, the Court of Auditors warns, among other things, that measures may need to be taken in the budget in 2018 or 2019 to ensure that the reduction of charges remains budget neutral. We will have to do the same tomorrow with corporate tax. Yesterday we were given the opportunity to hear a whole speech from the National Bank. I can summarize the discourse of the National Bank in the following two sentences. It can be assumed today that what has been put on the table is going the right way. However, one can never write in advance with 200 percent certainty in a budget that it will be compensated 100%. The National Bank was very clear about this. I heard that right and you were there: the government has taken care not to take into account the payback effects of the measure in question. So there's already a margin. We can now have a whole debate on whether the fact that there are more people at work, that the economy has grown, that there is more purchasing power and that there is more turnover can be regarded as a payback effect of a tax shift or not. What I am saying is that the policy we are pursuing in globo means that we have delayed our budgetary targets, but that, as Mr Van Rompuy clearly warned this morning, we are maintaining the objective of a balanced budget. By the way, that will cost blood, sweat and tears, because it means that we still have to look for at least about 3.3 billion. I am, to my regret, one hundred percent convinced that the government has chosen the right path with the targeted reduction of charges, rewarding people who work, thereby encouraging people to work, encouraging companies to recruit people, ensuring that there are more revenue, both in personal income and in corporation tax, which automatically also reduces social security expenditure. I therefore continue to support this policy 100%. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking about savings, I would also like to say that, in addition to the reduction of costs, the government has also opted for structural reforms. I believe that a great deal of action has been taken in this area over the past 15 months. The time when our labour market was a market in which someone spent a long career at Opel Antwerp or at Ford Genk, with one company, is over. We must therefore ensure that we are able to employ people flexibly in the labour market, that there is training and that employers are also encouraged to recruit certain workers. This morning there was actually a small Limburg debate with Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Vanvelthoven. What is happening in Limburg today proves what can be achieved with flexibility and resilience, through the efforts of a lot of people, thus eliminating the unemployment that had arisen after the closure of Ford Genk in the very short term and creating prospects for many people. This afternoon we were discussing in the coffee room the legendary discussions we had in this Chamber in the 1990s on social security. Remember Jean-Luc Dehaene's Global Plan, in which we initiated the reform of social security and the labour market for the first time. Those were fascinating debates with Jean-Luc Dehaene, who began to read his newspaper and then joined the debate. It is important that we also reform social security. Colleagues have already said that these reforms are not accompanied by brutal savings, but that they are being implemented within a framework in which healthcare expenditure continues to increase in nominal terms. A third important yard is pensions. There is still a great deal of work to be done, Mr President of the Social Affairs Committee. It will require a great deal of political courage for everyone to assume their responsibilities in this period of imminent elections, but if we know that by 2040 we will have to pay a pension bill of around EUR 52 billion, then we will have no choice but to make that invoice manageable. The best way to cooperate is to ensure that people no longer retire in 54 or 59 years, but that we accept the reality of longer work. It goes without saying that this is accompanied by measures for workable work. Colleagues, with the Summer Agreement, the government is adding a number of important reforms to this list. I hope, Minister, that we will be able to deal with them successfully in the next few days. A falling corporate tax, SMEs that have to pay only 20% of their profits at their first 100 000 euros, a minimum tax for multinationals and extending the flexi-jobs from catering to retail. At present there are more than 30 000 people who are using the latter. We all know such people in our own world. They are people who thereby strengthen their purchasing power and receive new means to go their way in life. People will soon be able to earn 500 euros a month as volunteers or by doing jobs for other citizens. The debate on this will take place, but let us take a very serious look at the opportunities it offers for a number of people to increase their purchasing power. Finally, companies are given an incentive to share a piece of their profits with their employees when things are going well in our country. However, this will be done in a way where the profit premium will no longer be taxed. We will also encourage investment. We are also thinking of the exemption of the first EUR 800 income from shares. This creates a win-win situation for citizens and businesses. As I said at the beginning of my discourse, we are not yet in balance with a budget. Mr Vanvelthoven will be able to steal this right away. However, when I see that the government's strategy is paying off, I sometimes wonder how it could be handled differently. In various committees I am told that any savings made by the government are too much. Any reform is condemned and must be reversed. On the other hand, more money must be allocated to each department. Sometimes I don't understand this, but maybe I'll hear the answer later. How, however, can we restore the budget in this way? I want to conclude with a look at the future. Mr Van Rompuy, I am less pessimistic than you are, quite the contrary. We still have to look for EUR 3.3 billion to ensure that the budget is in balance. At a time when our economy is attracting and more people are getting to work, and knowing that in our country we still have an employment rate of 67%, while in the Netherlands, Germany and the Scandinavian countries it is 80%, I think we should only try to close that gap and then we will be there. In other words, I would like to call on all colleagues in the government to make it possible for people to work more flexibly. The best example was also night work in e-commerce. I live in a municipality on the outskirts of this country where every weekend the vans of Dutch mail are serving in our streets and neighbourhoods. I'd rather these were vehicles and people from ours. We can achieve this by measures and flexibility, and by releasing the labour market. In short, to do this I think a lot of political courage is needed. We must continue to reform the labour market, pensions and taxation, but more than ever, today is the time to achieve this goal. I agree with the chairman of the committee, who rightly said that this Parliament also has a responsibility. We can look at it and do nothing, or we can actively cooperate to make those measures possible, even if it is on a Saturday. I propose that we also introduce flexible work in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u28	Let's start with that last one. Indeed, from the opposition, we have also promised to work on Friday and Saturday in the Finance Committee. Flexwerk, it is important to underline this today, at a time when the Prime Minister apparently refuses to apply flexwork to this Parliament on his own. I do not want to reopen the debate, but let us not faint. He's not in his garden. He's in the country tomorrow, but he refuses to come here. That's what this is about. We respect the work done by this Parliament. That's why we want to work on the weekends. The government's respect for this Parliament would be appropriate here. This must not be dismissed as nonsense by the opposition. This is just not correct. I want to start with the Prime Minister, in his absence. You all remember, because there was a stormy applause in this House, that the Prime Minister here said that no government had achieved more than its own in the last 25 years. That was the moment everyone here felt fantastic. Today that is something else, I have the impression. Today we are discussing the 2018 budget, an excellent moment to review the Prime Minister's statement. Let's start with this government's self-chosen major, so to speak. That major area is, or rather was, unfortunately, the figures, the budget. The coalition agreement was very clear about this: by 2018 we will ensure a budget balance and stop sending invoices to the children and grandchildren. The message of the coalition agreement was that people had to bite their teeth and have it better afterwards. Mr Van Rompuy said earlier that we should not think that this budget is in order. He's right about that. That's a long-term work. However, that thought was not there at the beginning of this reign. Then it was clear, both for CD&V and for the other majority parties: in 2018 we have a budget in balance. Is that what's on the table today? I do not have to tell you: that is not what is on the table today. There's a budget on the table with a deficit, and worse. When I read the government's budget books, I read that the deficit will increase in the coming years. In 2019, in other words by the end of this legislature, the structural deficit will reach EUR 5.5 billion. That is in the government's own budget books. I would like to hear Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Van Mechelen say here in the chair that we still need to step up, that we must not let go of discipline and that we must strike a balance. The own budget books that will be adopted shortly, if I have understood correctly, simply contradict what you are saying in this Chamber. Moreover, I would like to stress that the government's budget books show that half of what has been achieved to date is due to interest charges, i.e. 2.5 billion. So it is not a government effort, it is a result of the improving economic situation and the current low interest rates. In other words, there is very little left of the speech from the beginning of this period of government. The strange thing is that people don't even bother to get back on the track anymore. With Europe, it was agreed that at least 0.6 percent of structural improvement would be achieved each year. You can say that 2017 was a fantastic year, but the objective of the budget now before us, 0.3 percent, is half of what we have agreed with Europe and far from what we should do. We are not doing what we are told to do and what we have agreed to do with Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u29	Mr Vanvelthoven, I am already hearing a different discourse from that of the Ecolo-Green colleagues, who simply honestly admit that they are not budget fetishists. Read: How the budget ends, they don't care. That's plain language. On the other hand, you say that the balance of the budget is important and that we are not moving quickly enough towards a balanced budget. I would like to hear from you how we should get there. There are some possibilities. Let me give you some suggestions, a choice menu. We could cut back on the tax shift. We have given more to people with the lowest wages. We can take that away again, and we won't be short anymore. We could also introduce additional taxes. We can do that, too. We have systematically reduced the tax burden. If you propose to achieve a more rapid balance, we could increase it. The tax revenue from wealth has never been so high. In doing so, I would like to prevent you from suggesting that you go and get it from the rich. There's never been any more out of power than it is now. Or should we save? Should we not, as was mentioned this morning, carry out the pension reform in stages, but suddenly go through it with the rude brush? Then you will undoubtedly tell the trade unions that they must not stop and that we must do so, otherwise we will transfer the invoice to the young people. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u30	Mr Vanvelthoven, you are quoting figures. When we talk about the budget, we must not do so in general terms, but in concrete terms, with the figures in hand. You say that the structural deficit of the Belgian public sector decreased by 0.8 % in 2017, above the 0.6% needed. The European Commission has also recognised this. For 2018, the European Commission says that the Belgian government is actually only 0.3% instead of 0.6%, and calculates that it would actually be 0.1%. You said just now that the prospect is that the deficit will increase in 2018. We discussed this in committee, because the European Commission's calculation is based on the low rate of return on a number of taxes, but it did not say black and white that the structural deficit could not be reduced if those returns were achieved. I am nuanced, and I dare say so from the majority. I dare say that this year's deficit reduction rate has fallen compared to last year, but last year was an excellent year, since we have also fallen by 1% in nominal terms. Next year it will be a little less, as a result of the failure to estimate the return on some capital taxes that I have also recognized as well as of the tax shift, which was not financed at 0.2 or 0.3 %. I believe that a nuanced picture should be drawn up and that it cannot be said that this government is releasing all the brakes. That is not at all true, even when we look at expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u31	I didn't say the government's gonna let go of all the brakes. I said that it was agreed to achieve 0.6% in structural terms. In 2018, it will be half, 0.3%, and the European Commission is very clear on this. We did not introduce that nuance, but it would have come. That has to do with the fact that a lot of estimates of revenue are wrong. I'll get back to you on that. That is something that we have been raising from the opposition for two years and which you have been addressing for two years. Now, however, we are doing exactly the same thing for 2018: again, revenue is overrated. Despite the fact that the European Commission once again warns us in advance, we do not take that into account. Soon everything will be approved and we'll see later. That is what I am suing, that people are saying at the beginning of the reigning period what they are going to do, and it turns out to be nothing of the sort. The European Commission is warning us now and it is not taking this into account either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u32	Mr Vanvelthoven, the European Commission has made it very clear that the problem is not on the revenue side. I repeat, not on the revenue side. You can still take out every rule of the budget, Mr Van Rompuy sometimes does that too much to my liking, but a budget is a whole. There is no figure in the budget that will be exactly right. That is exactly what a budget is. There'll be differences. Firstly, the total revenue of the State is not the problem. Secondly, there has never been as much tax on wealth as it is now. These are two simple observations which lead me to the following conclusion: if there is a problem, that is expenditure, not revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u33	Mr Klaps, I would like to point out that this is not right. You say how you have translated the communication of the European Commission. The paper said it's not about income. When we asked the question, the European Commission made it very clear that the problem lies on both sides, revenue and expenditure. So you should not say here that the European Commission has said that there is no problem on the revenue side. That's obviously wrong. I'm sure the chairman can testify to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u34	Mr Klaps, do you remember this document? It was discussed in the Finance Committee with representatives of the European Commission. I can copy it, if you like. It contains a catalogue of all revenue which the Commission considers to be overestimated, measured by measure. I drew up an inventory of them earlier. It's worth hundreds of millions of euros. Mr President, if Mr Klaps asks, I can give him a photocopy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u35	If he asks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u36	Mr Vanvelthoven, when we sum up all income from, among other things, personal income tax, corporation tax, withholding tax and VAT, the overall revenue of the government is higher than expected at the beginning of the year. You'll have to acknowledge that, too. At the end of August/early September one even speaks of an increase of 7%, while only 5.8 % was budgeted. It is also true that there are problems with the return on a number of capital taxes. This becomes clear on the basis of the first experience. The capital taxes only started in the course of 2016. We do not yet know the results of 2017. Nevertheless, the overall income of the State is higher than I personally thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u37	Colleague van Rompuy, the last thing you say is true. That's what the Minister always says. But that's not my point. The point we are making here is the following. The government has taken a number of measures, which we in Parliament supported from the opposition, because we felt they fit into an agenda of fair taxation. However, we note time and time again that all the measures taken in the context of fair taxation are virtually non-existent. I have here a list of the Court of Auditors which will clarify that once again. It is about the caiman tax, the speculative tax, the increase in excise duty and the regularization. I could mention the amounts, but they have been appointed infinitely many times. In short, the government's new measures in the context of fair taxation do not bring about what the Minister of Finance proposed. What is the response of the Finance Minister over and over again? He replicates that we have more revenue in total. But why do we have more revenue? This is not the government's credit, but economic growth. Let us also stress that, in terms of economic growth, we are lagging behind in the European platoon. We are taking advantage of the economic revival in Europe. If we had done something more, for which we have been arguing since the beginning of the legislature and what the government wants to do now with its relay policy, after having refused it for two and a half years for two and a half years, after the government has stopped the internal consumption of the Fleming, of the Belgian, then we would not be dwindling about economic growth in Europe now! The fact that Europe is doing well ensures that the figures are good. The figures could have been much better if the Minister had kept all his promises on income. The problem would have been much less serious today. That's the essence of the story.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u38	Mr Vanvelthoven, there are a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u39	Mr Vanvelthoven, I do not need to repeat to you that the revenues of some categories of income are difficult to determine precisely; we have always said so. That is the case for the Cayman tax, for example. The Court of Auditors and the European Commission are indeed warning us whether we will achieve the estimated revenue. We also urge them to be met. However, it cannot be denied that revenue has increased in recent years thanks to a great deal of capital and capital taxes introduced by the current government. There is no denying that this legislature was introduced here with me, EUR 3.8 billion of additional taxes on capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u40	You didn't make it, that's the point!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u41	Yes, you do. There was a shift in the burden on labour. They have fallen and at least EUR 3.8 billion has already been obtained from capital income. You should not just focus, colleague, as you like and often do, on the caiman tax and future impact tax. Remember that the government has increased the withholding tax from 27% to 30%, that it has increased the bank tax, that it has taken measures around, among other things, liquidation, that it has prevented abuse and that it has given extra attention to the fight against tax fraud. All these measures, together with, in particular, the increase in the withholding tax, which you cannot ignore, ensure that EUR 3.8 billion more in wealth income than in governments with socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u42	Respecting the order, I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u43	Of course, I agree with what Mrs Smaers has just said about capital taxes. For the rest, I have three points, Mr Vanvelthoven. You are talking about economic growth. Well, our GDP is compiled in a different way, depending on whether the contribution of the private sector or the public sector is involved. Fifty percent of our GDP comes from the public sector. This is marked as GDP at cost. What is the contribution of our education to GDP? That's what it costs us to organize that education. On the private sector side, this is added value. That is a fundamental difference, because as a government we inherited a deficit of 3%. With a tax burden of more than 50% - it has been pointed out several times already that deficit has been reduced as much as possible through expenditure, which means, since the government accounts for 50% of our GDP, that it automatically has a huge negative effect on growth. If we make that distinction and look at the growth of the private sector, then we are among the top of Europe. If this exercise is to be carried out seriously, it will be seen that we belong to the summit of Europe in this area. Strong growth in the private sector and a contraction in the public sector mean a global economic growth rate that is lagging behind the European average. In the meantime, the backlog has almost been overtaken. Secondly, you say that income is growing as a result of economic growth. That's right. You can never, however, tell me that I want to do the whole exercise with you, and I want to explain the increase in revenue only because of economic growth. I'm declaring myself. At the beginning of the budget, we had 5.1 % revenue growth on the basis of 1.6 % economic growth. According to the latest forecasts, we are now going to achieve 1.8 % growth. However, the latest forecasts of revenue give rise to 7% growth. You can never explain this by economic growth alone, not half of it. This means, mutatis mutandis, that a large part of expenditure growth has nothing to do with economic growth but has nothing to do with the effectiveness of the measures. Thirdly, just for example, if you say that certain things are less profitable, we are now achieving record amounts in terms of the proceeds of the fight against fraud. Last year it was over 300 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u44	Very briefly and in line with what the Minister of Finance says, I have three observations. The proceeds of these capital taxes, I say with some embarrassment, have never been as high as now under one, let's say, center-right government. I really do not want to culpabilise the past on this subject, but I notice that the left side, which has been in power for several years and has also been in coalitions with us, continues to pretend today that it will all be resolved with new and additional power cuts. If you look at the whole picture, I am looking at the withholding tax, and I can only see that capital taxes have never been as high as under this government. Secondly, it is very selective to screen with reports from the European Commission. These reports and opinions must be looked at with the necessary seriousness. I've been through time on the PS banks asking who Olli Rehn was. He was then the predecessor of Pierre Moscovici, who is today the Bible. At that time, however, it was said that Olli Rehn would not impose on our country what we should do in the field of clean-up, but that we would do so ourselves. So I am not asking for a selective reading of the reports. What they contain must be taken seriously. Olli Rehn stood much more for an orthodox budget policy than today Pierre Moscovici and the reports are whatever they are. Today, the left side points to the conclusions of the European Commission, while Paul Magnette asked a few years ago who Olli Rehn was. He was the Commissioner responsible for the budget at the time. Thirdly, as far as the tax reduction is concerned, we must also believe in it. When Mr Van Mechelen and myself, together with Renaat Landuyt and Steve Stevaert reduced the registration fees in Flanders from 12.5 to 10% and the small description, the Court of Auditors warned that we would make a gap in the budget and that this measure was not budget-neutral. I simply note that the revenue from the registration duties was higher at a reduced rate than for the reduction of the percentages. So I won't be crazy or rich. I am just saying that, apart from the debate on budgetary neutrality, of course, a budget is not an exact science. A budget is also believing in a certain voluntarism, and that was a measure that clearly demonstrated that, if one continues to raise taxes, the returns will go down at some point. If one reduces taxes, one may also calculate a payback effect. So today you must not lose what you have worshipped in the past at a certain time. Finally, I would like to comment on economic growth. You are comparing the growth rates with a number of countries that have actually gone through the soil. During the banking crisis, Spain and other countries saw the soil and more than that. Our country has dealt with this crisis in a cautious, rational way. I firmly believe in the fact that the current budgetary policy and the re-launch policy I am calling on Parliament to give its approval to it soon................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u45	Mr Dewael has just said that he finds with some embarrassment that income from capital taxes is increasing under this policy. I believe, however, that the embarrassment is on the left side, because it has to be said today that we score better in the field of 'fair taxes' than the government in which you were sitting. You cannot deny those figures, of course. We score better than you did at the time in terms of the balance between taxes on income and capital taxes. If I stood there as a socialist, I would be particularly embarrassed by those facts. You can of course'scratch away' and give the impression that with a power load of 100 % you can solve all the problems, but we have gone further than you have ever touched. We don't want to reach the pain threshold. We want to achieve a good and healthy balance. You've stayed further away from that than this government. Moreover, from your discourse I have once again been able to establish that you still see the solutions along the revenue side. You still think that we need to solve the budgetary problem by increasing revenue. You point out that certain parts of income may be slightly lower than budgeted. The fact remains, however, that overall revenues were also higher in the past or at the level budgeted. You cannot deny that, because those are facts too. You say that income in certain areas may be higher than budgeted and in other areas less than budgeted. I don't know if that's true. Will you then propose to raise the level of public property again as a solution to the problem that is on the table today? You have not yet replied to Mr Klaps' choice pallet. I'm not going anywhere near that. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I hope that will not be the case for the further debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u46	I need to twist my neck to a duck who would claim that your government would do more in terms of fairer contributions to capital income. We can do the exercise together, figures in support, to show you that under the Di Rupo government, it is more than 5 billion euros that we went to find structurally on the income of capital. Let us take stock of the measures:- a particularly drastic tightening by a reduction in the rate of notional interest; - an increase in the tax on exchange transactions; - a tightening of the deductible dividend scheme; - an increase in the allowance for furniture; - and a whole range of other measures which, in total, amount to more than EUR 5 billion. So don't come and tell me about your lame measurements. I come back to the Cayman tax: you are unable to certify that your budget target of 500 million has been achieved. And the Court of Auditors also says so. As for the tax on securities accounts, let's see! You're claiming it's going to raise $274 million. The European Commission is talking about 175 million and the Court of Auditors is saying that there are basic differentials of calculation between Febelfin and the National Bank, implying that there is the most complete blurry. And we will also see if this is not disputed before the Constitutional Court. If I understand correctly, the debate will take place this Friday. Do I have to add a whole series of other taxes that are the subject of appeal to the Constitutional Court and that are still supposedly focused on income from capital? Don't come here to tell me about inepties. It is completely wrong to say that you are doing more on the income of capital. For the rest, the debate is very broad than that of the underlying causes of the development of tax revenues. There is undoubtedly a share of economic growth; it is called elasticity. Elasticity, it is particularly spectacular for some taxes rather than others. In income taxes in particular, the elasticity of personal tax is less important than the observed elasticity of corporate tax. Similarly, taxes on consumption also depend on many environmental effects. I am thinking in particular of excise duties. You had a very bad surprise when you decided to increase the excise duty on spirits because they eventually generated less revenue than before the increase. Why? Because people went shopping in neighbouring countries. You know very well that there has sometimes been more than 30% increase in Belgian purchases in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, in France and sometimes even in Holland. What does that mean? That the increase in revenues is, first, linked to economic growth; and second, linked to other parameters, which are political decisions. You do not have a monopoly on political decisions that increase taxes. I now observe that on the Open Vld side, we are delighted to have increased taxes on heritage. I imagine it will please his electorate, the middle classes, etc. This is very good; I see a conversion on the part of the Open Vld! Perhaps we should welcome the start of a trophy in the head of the CD&V, although it is not yet acquired! We didn't talk much about ARCO this afternoon. Perhaps it would be good to see what happens! So stop with your slogans! Stop with your cartoons that don't resist the analysis; I'm sorry to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u47	With the approval of the speaker who is now on the floor, I would like to comment on the statements made by Mr Laaouej. Mr Laaouej, I will not deny that we have increased taxes on wealthy people in the previous legislature. I endorsed them and I will continue to endorse them, because they were just. This morning, you argued for a sense of reality. The reality is that, in the current legislature, we have gone further with measures on this issue. I refer, for example, to the withholding tax, the stock exchange tax, the banking tax and the measures in place today. You referred to the European figures on this, which are partly different from those in our budget, but anyway, even if only the European Commission's lowest estimates come out, the impact tax will be a continuation of the policy of the previous legislature. What is more, it is true that we agreed with Europe in the previous legislature to achieve a budget balance in that legislature. We have not achieved that balance. I supported that, because in the light of the economic context at the time, I felt it justified to spread the measures at the time, just as I now consider them justified. We're doing that now. However, one condition must always be met, namely that the path towards a reduction in the budget deficit is followed in a structural manner, as Mr Van Rompuy has advocated this morning. In short, the measures were spread both in the previous and in the current legislature. Mr Vanvelthoven, that also brings me to your comments. What you now blame us for, we also did in the previous legislature. You are now suing that we do not keep our commitment to balance the budget, but I have not heard that charge from you in the previous legislature. In the previous legislature, you may have found that decision to be justified and not now. I still believe that the spread over time is justified, but we must also, as Mr Van Rompuy said this morning, keep a constant eye on the actual objective and grow structuralally towards its achievement. Mr President, I have one final point. Mr Vanvelthoven, economic growth here is less than in the neighbouring countries. Mr Dewael has rightly framed this in a long-term perspective vis-à-vis our neighbouring countries and compared to the years before. But you stated that we have stopped the consumption of the people. Well, let's stick to reality. I'm just referring to figures from the National Bank. The net disposable income of the Belgians has only increased in recent years, in this legislature. The reality thus contradicts what you are about to proclaim.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u48	Mr Laaouej, I agree with you on a great deal: you have listed all the tax increases, the avalanche of taxes imposed by the Di Rupo administration for a few minutes. Any improvement in the deficit has come under the Di Rupo government because of tax increases. The current government is seeking a balance between a reduction in taxes on labour and, where possible, an increase in taxes on capital. We are on the highest regime ever. And yes, people are colliding with borders. If excise duties are increased, people will be tempted to buy across borders. That's the way it is with taxes. If you make it too high, you destroy the economy. We must remain very afraid of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u49	It is high time that Mr Vanvelthoven could say something. It's been interrupted since 16:23. We're almost 20 minutes later. I must admit that the debate is certainly not uninteresting. I shall therefore give the floor briefly to Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u50	Mr Klaps, you are talking about household taxes. Who has increased the VAT on electricity? It's you! Who has increased diesel excise duties? On spirits? Who comes now with a soda tax? Who comes with a wage tax? For me, index jump is a 12 and a half billion puncture. It's a wage tax. You take it in the workers' pocket and put it in the employer's pocket. Don't come here to give lessons in raising taxes. You've raised taxes on consumption to record levels. No one had ever done it before. There's the truth. For the rest I did the inventory, because you're a little schizophrenic, increases in capital taxes. You said that no government had ever raised taxes on capital as much as it had, and we did more than the previous government. I have shown you that we have taxed capital more, precisely so as not to touch households, wages and index jumps, as you have done, as well as to preserve social security. With you, social security has become the cash drawer to fill the gaps in the budget that you are digging with your anti-social and austerity policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u51	Mr President, to judge the policy of this government - and I will not comment on that of the previous ones - a statistic from the National Bank, quoted at all times, which the government never mentions, is the evolution of the distribution of national income. Under this legislature, we see that corporate profits, which amounted to 39.9% of national income in 2013, rose to 41.7%, an increase of 1.8% in the GDP offered to companies. On the other hand, if we look at wage developments, the trend is reversed. We increased from 50.7 per cent in 2013 to 48.5 per cent in 2017. This means 2.2% less than national income, which is EUR 9 billion. You went to get that money from the workers' pockets to give it to the companies. This is reflected in the statistics of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u52	I should like to hear from Mr Laaouej how much the social security budget has fallen in our country. Apparently, we're robbing that system. Perhaps with figures he can show that the social security budget in this country is falling. Isn't that what you're saying? I will tell you myself: the budget is rising day by day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u53	This requires not only a spiritual effort but also a physical one. A lot has been said. My point is that this government over and over again does not live up to what it itself says. I made that point in connection with the budget. The budgetary balance that was promised in 2018 is not there. In fact, the European Commission has said that now is the time, now that the economy is growing again, to make an extra effort. And just now, the government says she won't do it. The European Commission can also be regarded as non-important or as assuming that it uses a different method of calculation. It's always the same. Anything other institutions or experts say about this policy, and that does not fit in with the good news show, is thrown aside. Secondly, I would also like to respond to a number of speeches. There's talk here about the tax shift. In this Parliament it has been repeatedly said that the tax shift was budgetaryly neutral and fully funded. Then the Court of Auditors said it didn't have much faith in it. The European Commission did not believe it. The National Bank didn't believe in it. The opposition didn't believe it. But still, the government pushed through. You said then that the CD&V had guarantees, which were registered in the agreement. That would be corrected if the bill didn't add up. Today it appears that the bill is indeed incorrect. The tax shift should be a shift from less labour charges to more capital and other charges. We supported it, just so we're clear. However, what do we establish? Who's paying the tax shift? I refer, among other things, to the withholding tax, which has risen to 30% during this government, without socialists. In fact, it has risen so much that the revenues set out by the Minister are not being achieved. The rate is too high. You did set the rate, not us. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u54	Yes, that has everything to do with it. The withholding tax, is it about the large assets? No, it's about the crowd getting caught again. It's about people's savings. They pay more. So don't come here and tell me that this government is dealing with the big assets. No, it is the small savers who have to pay more because of this withholding tax. That's the choice of this government. Another choice of this government, which also takes the small man, is the increase in excise duties. An increase in excise duty, is it paid by the big guys? No, it's paid for by the little man. Same for VAT. You're selling it here like this government stands for tax justice. That's not true. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u55	That's not true. I understand that makes you uncomfortable. At the time you reduced the VAT on electricity together with us, for good reasons. However, as soon as we are out of the majority, you will raise it again. Who's gonna pay for that? Those aren't the big assets, that's the little guy who's paying for that today. Then don't stop saying that people's net available assets have increased. The net available capital of the people has gone up, yes, but they have to pay much more than before, among other things in terms of VAT. At Flemish level, all invoices went up. Those who have a little savings must pay more withholding tax. Excise duties on all Belgian products have gone up. That's what this government does. That's why I said earlier that you put a stop to people's domestic consumption. That's what you're facing today. That is why economic growth in our country is lagging behind. That's a missed opportunity. Now you've seen that, because now you're coming up with..relance, relance, relance. You should have started that earlier. We now come to the same story for the third time: corporation tax. I'm here to keep you awake. However, you do not wake up, that is the problem. So I have to repeat over and over again: wake up! Wake up and listen not only to the opposition but also to all the other bodies that warn this government. With the reform of corporate taxation, we will have the same thing going on. I listened very carefully to Mr Van Mechelen earlier. He was not talking about the "reform of corporate tax" but about the "reduction of corporate tax." He mentioned a reduction in corporate tax, which again means that the reform of corporate tax proposed by the current government is not budgetaryly neutral. I'm looking again at one of the four coalition partners. Same story goes for the tax shift. It's the same story. The Court of Auditors does not believe that the measure is budgetaryly neutral. The European Commission does not believe it. The National Bank of Belgium also has serious doubts, let us be honest. You have not dared to say it, but she has great doubts. [[Objection]] On how many items to compensate for the tariff reduction, does the National Bank of Belgium have doubts? How many posts did she say that about? It's all about different posts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u56	There are several interruptions. The first one comes from Mrs. Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u57	Mr Vanvelthoven, first of all, it is simply unacceptable that you insist on the fact that policy is not social and that the man with the small income would have been affected. I repeat that net purchasing power has increased over the last two years and is increasing again next year. I repeat that the tax shift focuses on the lowest, middle and middle incomes. In recent years, we have heard several experts explain that the tax shift that the government has carried out has been the most social measure of all measures, because it focuses on low wages, which means that low wages are much more net. Moreover, the cost of net wages has been greatly reduced, resulting in a whole social policy, as more low-income people are recruited and job creation is concentrated on the lowest wages. There is no denying that the socialists must recognise that, if we want to increase employment and focus on the lowest wages, it is a very social policy that we have given all the opportunities. You cannot deny that consumer confidence has never been so high. You say that the small consumer would have been affected. I note that the figures show that net purchasing power is increasing and that consumer confidence has never been higher. Secondly, on corporate taxation, I note that you were also present yesterday in the committee, in which the National Bank of Belgium gave an explanation of its opinion. The National Bank of Belgium claims that there are winners, and even though it sees both positive and negative effects of the corporate tax reform, it decides that the overall picture, without any payback effects taken into account, is not negative. On that basis, we will continue. The reform of corporate tax again benefits our companies, it gives oxygen and we hope that it will also create jobs again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u58	In Mr Vanvelthoven's speech, I find a very great paradox. He fights the tax shift to fire and sword. He doesn't think it's well funded. If the tax shift is not financed enough, Mr Vanvelthoven, that means two things: more money to the lowest wages and a reduction in the tax burden in its entirety. I suspect that you could be perfectly supportive of these objectives. However, you are much more focused on symbols. The fact that the caiman tax makes certain constructions impossible or will assess them is obviously not important. The only thing that matters is apparently a code on the tax bill, which you can make a symbol of. The same applies to corporation tax. Officially, an insanely high rate is registered, but no one pays. Betting a high rate and creating a series of deductions throughout the decades to keep it somewhat affordable is supposedly fair. We are reforming that now and putting a focus on SMEs that will benefit from it. The reform is similar to the tax shift, which has benefited mainly from low incomes. Now the reform benefits SMEs and I do not understand why you are an opponent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u59	It was an interesting debate, but the level was unlikely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u60	I have not said at any time that we are opposed to lowering corporate tax rates. What you're saying is bullshit, because I was talking about the caiman tax. That's pathetic, really pathetic. We have been pleading for a year and a half to close the loopholes. We have put a proposal on this subject to the vote three times. You didn't want to go along with that at the time. Now the government itself finally comes forward with such a proposal, fortunately, and we support it. Why do you decide that we would be against something? You're just intellectually unfair. Your replies are null and void. As far as the tax shift goes, there's one thing you shouldn't forget. Unfortunately, as a local director, I find that poverty in our country is rising considerably. You should pay attention to that, rather than pretending to make everyone feel better. There are people at the bottom who are having a hard time. Our system of social security serves precisely to get those people along with it. We approved the tax shift at the time because we thought it was important, but on the condition that it would be budget neutral and therefore not break a hole in the budget, a gap that should then be closed. How's it gonna be poemed? By making the same people contribute again, because CD&V doesn't succeed in making the big assets pay this time either. That is the point we want to make all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u61	I can only conclude, Mr Vanvelthoven, that you cannot deny that certain fiscal measures have been taken in this legislature which have never been taken in the past. We don't take away from people who work. A fortiori, people who have low incomes, we give a lot of information. You said that we should not be blind to the problem in society that some people are fucking struggling. I endorse that. We must not be blind to this, not even in the future. In any case, it is a point of attention, but we have also paid attention to it. You deny that, but you cannot deny, Mr Laaouej, that we are going even further than what we had done well in the previous legislature and that we have also invested in the welfare envelope, so that the living wage has never been so high. Is that enough? No, we may still have to take steps in this area too, but we will agree that it is a work of a somewhat longer breath. The sooner we get to the point, the better, but we have taken steps forward and that is ignored, Mr Vanvelthoven. Reality proves that. You are criticizing us today for failing to achieve the balance of the budget and for being too slow. You're also saying we need to start a relance. What's it gonna be for those two? What are you proposing in concrete terms? You blow warm and cold at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u62	That's a scoop, CD&V has (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u63	Mr President, I wanted to confront this government and this majority in my speech with its own absurdities. I understand the attempts to bounce the ball back, but this is about the policy of this government. When we talk about fair taxation, and that concludes, Mr President, because I have been standing here for an hour long enough and I have spoken for about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u64	You were interrupted for 36 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u65	I've been interrupted by CD&V all along. It is about fair taxation and about the social face of this government. You have just tried to hijack that image, but you were immediately corrected by the MR, who said there is another social face in this government. As you said from the outset, this social face depends on how we can make that upper category with the most deserving, the most rich, contribute in a fair way. We have started with the value added tax on shares, for which you would have received our support, for which you have knocked on your chest; Deputy Prime Minister Peeters has also repeatedly said in the press that they should be introduced. This added value tax has not been introduced. Today we have the impact tax. We will discuss them in the next few days and next week. This amounts to EUR 750 for people who hold shares for an amount of more than EUR 500 000. I understand that the Liberals say that it is too much, but that this would be enough for CD&V to say that it is now the social face because it has brought it in, which is disappointing to me, especially since we are getting the message from all the authorities that the impact tax you will approve will never come into reality. The tax experts are ready to tackle that security tax before the Constitutional Court. I said it last week during Question Time: it is not for nothing that the three parties who initially opposed some form of tax on securities or shares or whatever are in favour today. The only reason they are in favour of it today is that that tax will never pay and that it will disappear very quickly. Colleagues of CD&V, you can pretend that you are the social face, but it has little value.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u66	Mr President, I had prepared a paper on the key issue and one on the budget. Mr Laaouej suggested that we start with the key issue, but I will talk about the budget. I will be relatively brief because I share my speaking time with Mr Gilkinet and also a little because the strength of the budgetary debates is evolving somewhat like the government's budgetary objectives. You see, it's a little salady. It is not a very interesting day, but I will try to bring in a number of things that, at least for the report, are important to share from our point of view. I would also like to refer to what I read this morning about the operational truth of Secretary of State Francken, who, I think, has given an honest answer to the question as to why the government has released the budget balance. He replied: because we do not win elections. That's an honest answer from Theo Francken. The Prime Minister does his best and says that the budget is a policy strategy, an investment strategy, an informed socio-economic analysis. I think it's more of a product of an electoral strategy. Should it be a product of an informed socio-economic investment strategy, we would have no problem with that at all. Mrs Smaers said just now that we want a budget balance and a relance. I have already said many times that it was then very much welcomed in plenary that a budget balance is not a fetish for us at this stage. The question is why deficits are made and what strategy they form part of. The majority's palmares are pretty poor. If there were a budget deficit that would have been accompanied by a very strong relay strategy, we would have been able to recognise ourselves much more strongly. However, I believe that the budget deficit is mainly the result of a finance minister who refuses to install a fair, real and substantial contribution from the largest assets and does not provide sufficient work in the field of tax fraud. It is not a product of a policy strategy, it is an electoral strategy. I thank Theo Francken for being so honest about that. Mr Bogaert will explain why he will be voting in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u67	Mr Calvo, if I may, I will ask my own question. I'm always intrigued by the following. The sp.a., Green, Ecolo, all revolutionary left-wing parties in Belgium, say that we do not have enough taxes on the major assets and that the budget would be in balance if we did; everything would be fine. Well, you should see what happened in France. There they had a government of Hollande, which went even more left than left. He couldn't be a candidate himself, because he had gone so left in France. Well, that government introduced taxes there, as you all suggest on the left here. In a country like France, this has raised between EUR 5 billion and EUR 6 billion. If this measure by the left-wing government is taken in proportion, it amounts to about 1 billion for Belgium. However, we still have a deficit of 5 to 6 billion. I always wonder where the difference is. Where will you find the rest of the story to achieve that balance? That's my first question. Secondly, you proposed a relaunch plan, an investment plan of 30, 40, 50 or EUR 60 billion. How exactly will you finance that? Thirdly, Ecolo-Green is in favour of the 32 hour working week. That costs EUR 40 billion, not once a year but once a year. The question is how you will finance that. So I have three questions for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u68	It's exactly an oral exam. They started this way, go, three questions for the opposition. Mr Bogaert, it would be a good thing if you knew and read our programme. For example, the collective reduction in working hours to a 32-hour week is not in my programme. That has already answered at least one question. Secondly, Mr Bogaert, I find it very unfair that you again attack our Prime Minister in such a way, while he is absent. You have done so before when discussing the balance of the budget. You said that the southern mentality snuck into our government. Now you do it again. You say that anyone who proposes an investment plan of EUR 60 billion is going astray. You just said that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious criticism by Hendrik Bogaert of Charles Michel, who has proposed an investment plan of EUR 60 billion. Mr. Bogaert, you've got a lot of nerve. That is another reason, Mr President-in-Office. Perhaps we should call on Article 50 to bring Charles Michel back from Paris, because the majority say that the guest is completely freaked out, because he is proposing an investment plan of EUR 60 billion. We have indeed proposed, drawn up and developed an investment plan which states that we should gradually increase our investment volume between now and 2030, Mr Bogaert. This whole additional effort between now and 2030 amounts to EUR 60 billion. You say the Greens are crazy when they propose an investment volume. But that is exactly the same amount proposed by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u69	What's the difference? Firstly, Prime Minister Michel did not say that it should all be public investment. Secondly, it is intellectually incorrect to argue that a party may make a proposal with a hole of EUR 20 billion, because other parties in the hemisphere also made proposals containing holes of EUR 20 billion. No. The problem remains that you are putting forward a proposal with a gap of tens of billions of euros. Then you come here to talk about budget credibility. Thirdly, you did not answer the question of whether the Federal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is for the 32 hour working week, yes or no. I think that is a pertinent political question, because it also involves a price tag of EUR 40 billion per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u70	We would be pleased if the Prime Minister would work for Parliament 32 hours a week and be a little less abroad. That is the position of our group. That's not right. Taking some selfies in Paris, where they're still half-lost, that's our prime minister. I can't say anything about that. I have been silent for a whole day, but it is very serious, Mr Van Overtveld, that you are here to defend that our Prime Minister is spending a whole week abroad, taking selfies with Arnold Schwarzenegger and Emmanuel Macron, who almost forgets that Charles Michel is on it. That is why we cannot discuss the relevant questions you are asking with him today. I would have liked to have had that debate with our Prime Minister. Then I'd be delighted to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u71	Mr President, very briefly and at the level of Mr Calvo, what he just said about the hours that the Prime Minister is performing, that is blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I'll leave that to him, but that's blah, blah, blah.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u72	I am glad that the N-VA supports Charles Michel on that point, and now on the core exit. I'll pass that on. I don't know if anyone's in contact with Paris? Johan Van Overtveldt and the N-VA have already included it in this respect for the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise five points of substance and make it brief. First of all, as far as the way in which work is concerned, which also has an impact on the debates, that is not a good thing. We have been there for a number of years now. The government is coming up with an agreement, which still has some budgetary doubts. Then there is a discussion about the tables, then about the elaboration and months later there are a lot of questions, often even more than at the beginning. Mr Bogaert, you were there in the Finance Committee. These questions are then put by the European Commission and by the Court of Auditors. Much has to do with this, and I am now looking at the Minister for the Budget, who was a Member of Parliament until recently, with the urgent lack of transparency in the budgetary exercise. This lack of transparency is also mentioned in black and white by the Court of Auditors. This states that what the government makes available to the Court of Auditors and often its own departments is too little or not in line with what was agreed by law on information on the budget. That's a first point I want to make. It concerns us all, and it has a damaging impact on our debates. I invite you to do this better in the years to come, or at least in the financial year that remains to us. The second point concerns expenditure. I hear colleagues from the N-VA very often say that it is not about income but about expenditure. Of course, this discussion has to do with social vision and ideology. The parties on the left, progressive parties, will pay a little more attention to the revenue side, the parties on the right, a little more attention to the expenditure side. However, the N-VA may gradually dare to look in the mirror on that plane. When it comes to spending, the N-VA must be able to get past that discourse. While she says that expenditure needs to be worked on, there are especially N-VA ministers who are knocking on the table for additional expenditure. In particular, there are N-VA ministers who have committed themselves to making an exercise on the performance of our public services, the famous redesign exercise. They totally let it go, they let it go. Minister Jambon and Minister Vandeput have spent more on consultants than redesign has produced. I think that is an important observation as an observer, not as a major propagandist of the drastic savings. You went to the elections with the Moesen norm, the nominal freezing of expenditure. To date, however, you have said: expenditure, expenditure, expenditure. At the time when the N-VA is on the buttons to do a constructive exercise on expenditure................................................................................................................................................................................................. In his report, the Court of Auditors has not even dared to talk about redesign, because they knew that this would almost be seen as a provocation by the N-VA Group. Redeign doesn't exist anymore. I am thinking, for example, of the Government of the Buildings, which is an important actor in our public services and a sip of public funds. In the course of discussions in the context of Minister Jambon's policy paper, the Minister admits that the redesign does not yet stand, but that he will start this year. A second point I absolutely want to share is the following. Colleagues of the N-VA, I think your work on expenditure is not so great. Your game is clearly taking place in terms of social savings. It is usually about spending on sick people, pensioners and people who are having a hard time. But if you have the chance to do something about the reduction of recurrent expenditure, then you leave that opportunity aside. Is it a perverse strategy to save more in social security? I don't know. Maybe. I think it's important to pierce that balloon today. Thirdly, with regard to tax revenues and the fair contributions of the largest assets, I had hoped that in 2017 there would have been an answer to the broad call for fiscal justice. Even in your electorate, Mr Van Overtveldt, there appears to be an overwhelming majority in favour of a much more pronounced shift in the burden, particularly less on labour and more on the greatest abilities. Your most important answer to this is that you are doing more than the previous government. That's right. A number of new capital taxes have been introduced. However, if we consider how fiscal thinking has evolved here and elsewhere in the world, this shift could be much more pronounced as far as we are concerned. Then I think the proportions should be different too, colleagues from CD&V. It is an image that I have used before, but once again, as far as the Summer Agreement is concerned, for the umpteenth time, it is seen that there is actually more savings in social security than there is a search for the strongest shoulders. There is more savings in pensions, Mr Van Rompuy, than in the famous securities tax. At least, the theoretical yield of the securities tax is 253 million, whereas the European Commission says it is 175 million. In the coming days, we will be able to discuss this impact tax more fundamentally. So much for my third comment on income, on fiscal justice, or rather on the lack of it. This might have been enough in 2007, but in 2017 this is insufficient in terms of fiscal justice. Post Panama and post Paradise Papers is more needed, I think. Fourthly, a lot of numbers have been sprinkled here. In most cases, each one uses the figures that fit best in his or her analysis. I would just like to comment on a figure which was in favour of the majority and which has remained very much with me after the budgetary negotiations, in particular the figure on economic growth and job creation. Mr Van Rompuy may remember it as well. I think it was Mr De Boeck of the European Commission who told us that we are relatively low in terms of economic development, which certainly has something to do with the route during the crisis. In this respect, Mr Dewael has just made a proper analysis. Of course, that's part of the game. Mr De Boeck's point was that there is relatively little economic growth and relatively little job creation. That is a finding that we, as an opposition, do not win the elections. This is a figure that I would use much more often in the debate. I give you advice, Mr Van Rompuy. This is a figure that you can add to your figure sheet. That figure shows that the strategy to reduce the burden on labour is working. That is why we have always supported this strategy. Let there be no doubt about that: as ecologists, we consider it important to give work and to be employed. We have always supported this strategy. The fact that the tax shift, the reduction in labour costs, ensures that we have relatively much job creation in relation to the economic development we have, particularly shows to me that much more could actually be done if the tax shift had been smarter designed. It would have been better if the tax shift had been financed in a different way and had not led to the inflation record we have today in our country. We are also European champions in this. If we were to opt for a tax shift that would be much more, and for our part exclusively focused on the lowest incomes, on reducing employers' contributions and raising net wages, its impact would have been much greater. That was a fourth point. It is clear that the reduction in the burden on labour has a positive effect. We do not deny that. It would be absurd to deny that. In this case, the impact on economic development would have been much greater. One final comment I would like to make concerns the investment pact. In fact, I should now call on Article 50 to bring the Prime Minister forward, but I assume that the Minister for the Budget can share that with him. It is a public secret that we strongly support the investment pact. Only it is now time to get ahead of that point. Especially since the investment pact is very absent in the budgetary tables, it is high time that the Prime Minister fulfilled his commitment to involve the opposition parties and also write them to make proposals, as we have done. The investment pact is the major absentee in the budgetary tables. We would like this to be different in the future. These are five main points which I would like to share with you on behalf of our group. Unless we change our minds unbelievably over the next twenty-four hours, our group may not approve this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u73	Mr President, I thank my colleague Calvo for heating up the room. This is the last full budget of the legislature and we must note, first of all, that we are debating it without the presence of the Prime Minister – I will not go back to the controversy raised earlier and the Conference of Presidents – but above all without the vote of the most fundamental elements, the cornerstone of your summer agreement – Zomerakkoord – which will be the subject of further discussions for a few days, perhaps until the eve of the new year. I think all of this is like the way your government works. This largely illustrates the work of a majority who, paraphrased and hijacked, offers us a famous slogan, the worst of both worlds. With you, on the one hand, we have austerity, very harsh measures in the field of social security - our social security is becoming less and less a safety net for those who encounter problems of life - a precariousness that is increasing. Whatever you say, it is not the measure on the tax exemption from equity investment that will fill this precarious situation, Mr.Dedecker. The government is not investing enough in the future. I will take only one example: the state of our Justice, our courthouses, is truly an illustration of the catastrophe of austerity. And, on the other hand, surprisingly, there is also the budgetary adventure. You introduced yourself at the beginning of the legislature by saying that this time, Belgium's structural deficit would be reduced, that the government's debt would be reduced. And what do we see in the analysis of your budget? The return of one shot measures, measures that will cost future generations, whose budgetary impact is deliberately poorly assessed. Despite an extremely favourable international context - I will return to it - opportunities are being wasted. The only glimmer of hope that we, environmentalists, identify in this mist, is indeed this investment plan announced by the Prime Minister, with which we want to join. These are the green bonds, the green bonds, which are announced to us to finance, finally, a start of ecological transition of our economy. We want to believe in these positive intentions and have even offered our services, but obviously not naively. Unfortunately, we must note the inconsistency of the choices made so far. Yes, green bonds have been created. Yes, we recognize the need to accelerate the energy transition, but we do nothing in the field of company cars; we will see what will emerge from the "cash for car" measure. Some of the government's forces are sabotaging laudable initiatives. What a disappointment this morning! What a disappointment, too, not being able to hear the Prime Minister about the climate pact. This does not augur well for a greener and more egalitarian future. However, to be positive, I would like to note the beginning of interesting measures. We are ready to follow some when we discover them on paper. An alternative to company cars, what a good idea! However, how will you respond to the opinion of the Council of State and how will you ensure that this provision, in the form of a mobility check, benefits all workers and is financially sustainable? The reduction in the taxation of SMEs on the first one hundred thousand euros of profit seems to us to be a good thing. It's a job that's rooted in us. However, how will you fund this measure? I'm not convinced yet of what's on the table. Find a tax solution for sports coaches, cultural operators – why not? I think it's even a good thing. But the result is total deregulation of work and unfair competition against local entrepreneurs, as evidenced by this measure of 500 euros freed from any social or tax contributions! Where are you going? The provision on securities accounts? Bravo! The CD&V finally obtained a tax on capital income. But we must see that it is a gruyère. Tax experts explain to us, week after week, how to escape. The Government has changed its scope ten times since July 26. In any case, the tax revenue announced remained intangible: EUR 254 million. You have to believe me. Perhaps this is the effect of the Holy Spirit... In short, these are measures that are interesting on paper and that we want to encourage as ecologists, but the legislation that translates them is filled with slippers and traps that will keep us away from stated intentions. The Council of State has clearly identified him. With regard to the tax on securities accounts, he noted that the explanatory memorandum referred to fairer taxation, but that the texts would not achieve that objective. What a disappointment! I would like to return to the socio-economic context that we regularly talk about. Here too, you can find Members happy if there is job creation in our country, if new businesses are created. But you will not prevent us from having a slightly more detailed analysis of the cost of each job, of the quality of the jobs created. It is easy to create jobs without contributions. If the total cost of tax shift is reduced to the number of jobs created, the cost per job created is enormous. Many associative economic operators, with the same sum, would create up to six times more jobs. There is a bad orientation of aid. We need a shift on the tax shift, Mr. Van Rompuy. This is a debate that we held with the tabling of an amendment when the tax shift was tabled. There is a need to focus tax cuts more on very low wages, to direct aid towards the economically driven sectors for the future. But the result is not that. The result is low quality jobs. I quote a document from the European Commission that outlined its socio-economic priorities three weeks ago in its Annual Growth Survey. She analyses the Belgian labour market as follows: "The percentage of workers living in small jobs in Belgium is one of the most worrying in Europe, just after Greece and Spain, a country hard hit by the crisis. This is all the more problematic because in Belgium the unemployment rate is relatively low." In observing the Belgian labour market, the Commission notes the development of small jobs. Precarisation of employment, deregulation of the labour market is what you offer us. Therefore, our social security system is in danger. There is no strong alternative funding for social security. You are gradually destroying the social model of consultation, both from a budgetary and a regulatory point of view. You aim for short-term gains and anticipate medium-term losses and a form of social instability. I've already heard in the mouths of members of the majority that you want to save social security. But it is no longer social security. What will you bequeath to future generations in terms of solidarity, in terms of safety net? This, however, in an extremely favourable international context, which makes us say that, in the end, the improvement of public finances is done more by the President of the European Central Bank, Mr Draghi, than by the Prime Minister, Mr Charles Michel. Much of the structural improvement in recent years is due to interest rates, a factor on which the government has no control. How can the international economic context be characterized today? Extremely low oil prices, a weak euro that facilitates exports and, thirdly, the policy of the European Central Bank to buy back assets, flood the economy with liquidity that leads to excessively low rates that allow Belgium today to mechanically save three billion euros – that is, very well – on the repayment of its debt, on the price of the interest of the public debt. Indeed, Belgium's neighbouring countries, which are the engines of our economy, also benefit from these advantages and help Belgium - and so much the better! - to operate from an economic point of view, which explains the tax revenues you are announcing, on which quality I will return. If we compare our economic and social performance with those of neighbouring States, we can see that Belgium is less successful, especially in terms of job creation, despite this European, international context which is extremely promising. You're kind of wasting the opportunities that face us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u74	I have before me an analysis of Philippe Defeyt, whom you know very well since he was a member of our parliament twenty years ago, under the banner of the ecologists. He's a very competent man, a university professor. He says that if one looks at the evolution of employment over the last five years, the smallest number of full-time equivalents can be found in the Netherlands, Germany and Austria. We're close to France. Together with France, we are the country where most jobs are created, full-time or four-fifths. So it is not true that in Belgium it is only precarious or temporary jobs, as you claim. I quote Philippe Defeyt who based this study on a European analysis. It's also about France. You say that the creation of jobs in Belgium concerns temporary jobs, hamburger jobs, while the European analysis shows that we are still creating the most sustainable jobs here. The fact that there is more flexibility, that there is more part-time work, is so throughout Europe. This is linked to economic development. Compared to Germany and the Netherlands, we are good at creating work and full-time equivalents. I don't know where you get your grades, Mr Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u75	Sir, I must tell you that you have excellent readings and references with this Namurese ecologist, Philippe Defeyt. Two points of answer. Mr Defeyt pointed out that mechanically, by the age pyramid, by mechanical demographic effects, the creation of jobs for the last ten years is constant and mechanical. Today, despite the tax shift measures, there is rather a slowdown compared to previous years. What he says in relation to the number of full-time equivalent jobs is not incompatible with the quote I made. In addition to these full-time equivalent jobs, there is the development of mini-jobs and flexi-jobs in German. You are proposing, within the framework of the programme law which will be on the agenda very soon, that pensioners may have flexi-jobs. Under the so-called "relaunching" law, which will be put on the agenda shortly in the Social Affairs Committee on Friday and Saturday, you plan to work for 500 euros without paying any contributions. Not only are you making work more flexible, but you are developing precarious work and strengthening this category of workers – and I should say workers – who are poor workers. What is happening in Germany today is not desirable – that is, to force workers to have two jobs in order to survive, to force pensioners to take up employment in order to have decent living conditions. This is not the model of society we want. Mr Bogaert, you look at me and you have called us several times. Yes, we have alternatives to work, ways to better share working time, and ways to support companies and sectors that want a reduction in working time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u76	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u77	Don't caricature! An example was cited this week in the French-speaking press in La Libre Belgique. A company that does car maintenance and small repairs has reduced the working time of its workers, also taking into account the economic needs of shift schedules. On the basis of an intra-company agreement, they have reduced working time. We must be able to help sectors that would like to develop this type of measure to improve the quality of life of their workers, to improve their availability, to ensure that they are less ill – the cost of work-related diseases is exploding in Belgium – to reduce structurally the burn-out, rather than via coaches who intervene at the end of the chain. Similarly, older workers should be allowed to gradually reduce their working time, for example with the Tandem Plan, which is applicable in different non-market sectors (rest homes, hospitals). It allows workers over the age of 50 or 55 to reduce their working time. There is also time credit, against which you have not stopped taking restrictive measures. The quality of life of workers must be improved. It will be financed by having fewer sick workers and with better motivation in the workplace. Family life feels the impact. Earlier, I heard Mr Dedecker pretending that more money will be available to pay for the nursery. Yet it is necessary to be able to arrive before the closure of this one to take back his children and spend some time with them. It is necessary to be much more imaginative in the orientation of aids, through modern forms of work-sharing available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u78	Mr Gilkinet, first of all, there is talk of an idea which is given considerable momentum in French-speaking Belgium. I notice that in debates, which I sometimes conduct there. There is now a majority in Wallonia for the 32-hour week. You want to reduce working time by 20%. In other words, you will reduce the economy by 20%, which means that in the long term there will be 20% less for health care, for pensions and for all public expenditure. Everyone is looking at it, as if that proposal is the most logical proposal there has ever been. You're suggesting that you're willing to pay for that with a number of things. The mass of wages in Belgium is 260 billion euros. If you remove 20% of that, you will destroy 52 billion euros. However, you claim that the cost of unemployment must be taken into account because there would no longer be any unemployed in your plan. Let's count super-wide and take that cost at EUR 10 billion. So we are subtracting EUR 10 billion from EUR 52 billion. In that case, your plan will cost EUR 42 billion. That's what it's about. Half in French-speaking Belgium wants to introduce the 32-hour working week. Who's gonna pay for that? That will not be the employer, because it would be compensated from the big cash. The cost of 32 billion euros is as high as all federal public expenditure itself, excluding social security and more than that. Everyone in French-speaking Belgium is talking about this as if it were. Secondly, it is a very self-centered proposal that you are making. After all, there are several provinces, not only in Flanders but also in Wallonia, where there is already a huge shortage of labour. If you go through another 20% reduction in the available labour, I think in this context of West Flanders, East Flanders and other provinces, all companies that are already unable to find sufficiently skilled people will find themselves in the greatest possible difficulty. I am therefore surprised to hear that proposal in French-speaking Belgium. I would also like to hear it here in plenary and know exactly what your argument is for sending such strange ideas into the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u79	Mr Bogaert, you really put me in a bad mood. You're an unbearable cartoonist. I heard you on the VRT plateau, while Francophones in this government are a minority, being insulting to the entire francophone political class. Since the beginning of this debate, you have caricatured by inventing measures for which I am in no way responsible! It's not worthy. It is not because you hide behind a tie and a beautiful suit that you can make such populist comments! Frankly, what you are doing is not worthy of a former Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u80	May I ask you to conclude, Mr. Gilkinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u81	What are your arguments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u82	I have already expressed my arguments. Mr Bogaert, I would like you to take care of one thing. I would like you to take care of the Government's compliance with its commitments to new measures. It is good to teach those who make proposals, which we assume, to share the work more, improve the lives of workers and test systems that work. Mr Bogaert, do you mind, we have implemented working time reduction schemes which are self-financed in the non-market sectors of the French Community. The environmental party did not propose 32 hours. I'm not a member of the Socialist Party! I wasn't there. I would like you to do your job as a member of the Finance Committee by being there from time to time and checking – Mr Bogaert, if you do not want to listen, you will never hear a response – the compliance by this majority of its commitments with measures already taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u83	Mr President, I am speaking on the form. Mr Bogaert can continue as much as he wants to stop constantly, always on the same subject with the same obsessions, while we are on a budget debate. Mr Bogaert, I do not know what your frustrations are and why you have obsessions. What you're doing to Mr Gilkinet, you've also made me suffer, that is, you're taking a file or a theme completely out of step with regard to what we're dealing with and, every time since the beginning of the day, you've come back with the same arguments. You have been told that we are fully prepared to have a debate on reducing working time according to the modalities you want. It doesn't make any trouble. But, at some point, get out of your obsessions! Get out of your obsessions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u84	Mr Gilkinet, you have two minutes to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u85	Mr. President, thank you. Mr Bogaert, I would like you to take care of the rate of fulfilment of the promises of new revenue and measures on the part of this government. I can speak of the past: the measure on sicafi, 100 million euros does not exist; the tax regularisation, 250 million euros announced, 70 million euros realized; the Cayman tax is impossible to evaluate; the measure on the collaborative economy, 20 million euros announced, 100 000 realized; the redesign doodbegraven; tax fraud, revenues artificially inflated by the regularisation revenues; nothing about the taxation of GAFA; organised social dumping. For tomorrow, all the external observers we met alert us to the lack of serious budget forecasts – sorry, Minister of Budget. The European Commission notes that the ISOC reform is financed by measures that are not structural. The data you rely on are those for fiscal year 2015, fiscal year 2014. ISOC's tax reform is financed at 50% from the notional revenue of notional interest; more than EUR 2 billion, depending on hypothetical increases in the OLO rate. The study of the NBB that was presented to us yesterday is not a dynamic study taking into account the cross-effects; it is just a politically correct evaluation. The transfer of charges to other levels of power is very real. You're budget adventurers, handymen, Frankenstein professors. The addition of the demands of each other – this is what has happened in recent days – does not yield a balanced and solid or lasting result with regard to public finances. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u86	No one's used the 30 minutes yet. I'm counting the interruptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u87	You systematically overestimate new recipes. Mr Bogaert, check what has been decided in previous years and what is not achieved! You're underestimating new tax expenditures. Mr Van Rompuy, you are the guarantor of budgetary orthodoxy, it is up to you to play! You're preventing us from controlling, for example, Cayman tax revenues. As a result, your budget makes the big difference. It is a mortgage on future generations that we will not associate with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to express myself without causing any heated debate or personal controversy which does not bring much to the quality of the discussions on budgetary issues. The 2018 draft budget that will be put to the vote was born in the middle of the summer as part of this famous Tomorrowland agreement that was presented to us here by the Prime Minister. This agreement did not only mean bad. On the side of the CDH, we had an interest in a number of measures. Six months later, it must be noted that a number of the measures announced in July have not yet been incorporated into texts made available to Parliament. In terms of implementation of the reforms announced, this seems to me to be a real methodological problem. On the limit, no matter the method. In substance, there are positive elements in the few measures still to be discussed in Parliament. I would like to point out from the outset the reform of corporate tax, even if I am not surprised by some of them. I have not changed my mind on the matter. Already in 2014, before the parliamentary elections, the CDH was carrying out a major tax reform that included corporate tax reform because at the time we wanted to get closer to the European averages and compensate for this fairer treatment with a very broad questioning of notional interests. That's what we said in 2014 before the elections, that's what we translated, after the elections, into a bill tabled by the cdH group. As soon as the government comes with a proposal that goes in the direction that we want, we will not change our mind because we are on the benches of the opposition. We therefore welcome this reform proposal, especially since the Governor of the National Bank, when he appeared before the Finance Committee on Tuesday afternoon, has had some rather encouraging comments. In his view, it was a desirable or even necessary reform. Without prejudice to the discussion that we will have in committee when the text is finally available, I would almost want to go a step further by saying that it is a desirable and necessary reform. The current corporate tax situation is not acceptable, it creates discrimination, in particular, between large companies that can use tax engineering schemes and small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have that potential. A reform to reduce taxation on SMEs, we are a priori in favour of it. There's good in the summer deal, and at least good! And in this category, I would like to put the tax on the securities accounts that we will be discussing on Friday in committee – unless indeed a plenary meeting is held, as long as the Prime Minister will be joining us – but in principle this item is on the agenda, the text is available. We will therefore have the opportunity to review the particularly critical opinions of the Council of State on this text, which stressed how far the objective does not seem to be achieved by this measure. Of course, we can agree with the objective of fiscal fairness, but the proposed measure will exempt the biggest fortunes. It will open the door to appeals to the Constitutional Court and we can therefore – beyond even doubt as to the performance of this measure – frankly consider this to be a form of deception! We'll probably have an opportunity to get back to it. In any case, from the outset, as soon as the measure had been announced, the Minister of Finance himself had expressed doubts, Febelfin announces that it is unrealistic to implement it as early as January 2018, as the banks are not ready. The government is therefore most likely exposed to disappointment, although some will no doubt welcome it in the majority. Finally, there is good and at least good, and even bad! In particular, the measure on debilitated incomes. I understand that the government is going a little backwards or at least giving itself a little time to ensure a minimum consultation – it is more than time, since this measure has in fact been unanimous against it, triggering the hostility of the social partners: trade unions, employers, the Francophone Volunteer Platform. To this extent, everyone fears a form of social dumping, since one can really fear that, by multiplying the forms of status, there will be precarious statutes that will harm real employment. As for the budget, when it was presented to us, after the presentation of the summer agreement, the least we can say is that it has not aroused unanimous enthusiasm among the majority, since prominent members of the majority have allowed themselves to say that this is probably the weak point of the government's progress. This is indeed a justified formula. In terms of the efforts made by the government, it must be noted from the outset – the Minister for Budgets has made it a political choice by presenting it in committee – that the effort is not up to what was expected by the European Commission. Instead of the $6 billion expected, the effort is limited to $2.6 billion, and this is a government choice. Behind these 2.6 billion, there are a large number of technical corrections, volume effects, anticipation and improved growth, so that there are only a billion savings left. Most of them will be carried out in the social security sector and will be taken with immediate effects. Other measures are more speculative or in any case assumptions about new revenue. However, we are not meeting the target agreed with the European Commission: instead of achieving a 0.6% deficit reduction, we are limiting the recovery to half, 0.3%. The majority's speeches explain that restoring fiscal balance should not be an obstacle to recovery. But another speech was held at the beginning of the legislature, when the restoration of balance was the alpha and the omega of the government's strategy. We are no longer there, there has undoubtedly been a reversal. We must be able to assume this responsibility in the head of government. Many of the proposed measures have a "random" performance, a term used by the Minister of Budget, including the concept of potential growth. This term describes the whole budget quite well because there are many mortgages on the new measures: taxes on securities accounts, the Soda tax, the Cayman tax, the fight against tax evasion, excise duties on tobacco. The Court of Auditors explained that it was unable to validate all these new measures, as well as the performance of older ones, taken in particular within the framework of the 2015-2016 Conclave. That is the problem that we have been facing since the beginning of this Parliament and that has not yet been resolved. This is not necessarily new, since we have also seen that measures which have been announced have been forgotten: the reduction of the appropriations, for example, which we spoke about in committee meeting, proposed with great firmness. The government has forsaken this, as it has forgotten the draft redesign, an important concept at the beginning of the legislature, part of the financing of the tax shift. For 2018, it was not far from 250 million euros that were expected and, over the entire period, 750 million were expected from this redesign. However, it must have been noted that in Budget 2018 there was no additional performance generated by this redesign. Any margin of security has also been waived. We may have an opportunity to talk about this again in early 2018 when the Commission comes back to us, but in any case, the buffer you had in 2017 will no longer be on the list in 2018 and it is a risk you have taken. Some measures are supposed to bring nothing, not cost anything, but, frankly, one can doubt it. I mentioned the exemption of EUR 500 per month with the maximum amount of EUR 6 000 per year. The government suggests that the measure may cost nothing, and yet the FPS Finance produced a report in which it refers to a negative impact of EUR 150 million. There is a great deal of uncertainty and neutrality that is far from guaranteed. The same applies to the raising of the pension savings ceiling. You claim that there is total neutrality. That is not possible. There will necessarily be a loser in the operation. If neutrality is assured or acquired and confirmed, it is because, necessarily, a number of savers will have been blurred. This is a debate that we have already had here. Revenues are uncertain. Expenditure is also to be questioned. Without creating any controversy, I would like to draw the attention of the Budget Minister once again to the need to clarify methodologically the question of this rate of growth of net primary expenditure. It is clear that this is a sensitive subject and that the theme of growth and expenditure or an economy to be achieved in the expenditure sector is a theme that can be instrumentalized by each other. The Commission is telling us that spending is increasing more than this criterion provides and there is a difficulty in understanding. So, in the interests of the State and for the sake of clarity in our debates, there must be this effort of clarification and, very quickly, the Minister for Budget, you can come back to committee with a method that would have been validated both by the government departments and by the Commission, so that we can at least know what to do about the application of this criterion, which will certainly be more and more important in the future. A word about the evolution of the debt. The Minister of Finance is pleased that it is moving towards the 100% rate. In 2016, public debt amounted to €447.2 billion or 105.7% of GDP. We are gradually decreasing but we are far from Philippe Maystadt's method. The older ones will remember that. At the time, at the time when there was a great effort on debt reduction, Philippe Maystadt, with a sense of his own, explained how much an inverted snowball effect could be played. He explained it to us with a lot of pedagogy. This implied the release of extremely large primary surpluses. That's how the debt was deducted at the time. Here, objectively, we are far from it. We're a long way from the primary surpluses. If the debt is reduced, it is through the sale of the assets. We know that, in the Commission's own eyes, it is a method that is not necessarily recommendable. We are far from the rigour that had been implemented at the time. We are here in a rather approach to selling family jewelry, especially for Belfius. In view of all these factors, the European Commission has warned Belgium that the 2018 budget poses a risk of non-compliance. This isn't the first time. Each time, the government tells us that the Commission is, by its very nature, more pessimistic than the government and that it is not surprising. It's a way of scrambling criticism that's not convincing. In committee, I had the opportunity to explain that, on the improvement of the structural balance in 2017, for which both the Commission and the government finally achieved an improvement of 0.6 or 0.7 points of GDP, on this estimate, the Commission announced this figure from the beginning. But the government, a year ago, was instead on a 1.4-point increase in GDP. In other words, in any case with regard to the improvement observed in 2017, it turns out that the Commission's figures were the most reliable. For this reason, I think that the Commission's critical reading should be taken seriously, when it finds that, for 2018, it is not even the 0.3 point of improvement that will be observed, but rather a deterioration of 0.1 point of GDP. Do not sweep this away from the back of your hand because, in experience and whatever you think of it, the Commission rarely errs in the heavy trends that it can identify. Whether at 0.3 or 0.1, we are far from the budgetary objective of this majority at the beginning of the legislature. There has undoubtedly been a change of course. Now it remains to be seen what the new course is. Beyond the figures for 2018, one can really question the multi-year trajectory. Earlier, when the Chairman of the Committee on Finance re-emphasized the importance of budgetary balance, I rested my question in committee. Agree to restore the balance of the budget but within what time frame, according to what timing? No sooner than in committee, I did not get an answer. As far as the budget is concerned, in order to try to make me understand in a somewhat common language, I would tend to ask you: when do we go? The budgetary balance is for when and how do we go about it? Honestly, there's no trajectory. The general statement of the budget shows a deterioration from 2018 figures in 2019, a deterioration that continues in 2020. When this perspective is presented to the government, there is no answer as to the government's target for 2019. This is not a very long-term perspective. In 2019, does the government commit itself yes or no, does it have the will or not to present a balanced budget? This question has remained unanswered, and I assume that there will be no more in this debate, so that we have reason to believe that the return to budgetary balance is a form of chimera. Regularly, we are told that we are almost at the end of the tunnel or that we have travelled half or three quarters of the road. But who can still believe this when, once the elections have passed, we are faced with governments that see that we have not reached the end of the tunnel and that new efforts are still to be made? The truth would command that the government really make sure to offer us an up-to-date trajectory. The Commission is also asking for this. For the time being, there seems to be no willingness to provide clarification. I wonder about the government's difficulty. Is it the wish not to reproduce what appears retrospectively as an error at the beginning of the legislature when, proud like Artaban, the government and its Budget Minister at the time had announced a guaranteed restoration by 2018? Scalded cat fears cold water. You couldn't do it. You're probably more careful for future exercises. I have the feeling that this silence has another explanation: a form of real inability on the part of the government to see clearly in future deadlines, which, objectively, is very, very worrying. I will briefly go back to the issue of the revenue assessment to say again that it is not because the revenues in 2017 are generally better than expected – we talked about a growth of 7% – that methodologically, we have to give up the means to have a reliable assessment. Whether it's going up or down later, it doesn't matter! The important thing is to have as reliable a forecast as possible, which is why a task force had been set up. The minister confirmed that now an external consultation with universities was at work. All right! But it's starting to do good! It would be time to have a proven method that can be discussed and shared by all as it would be time to have services within the FPS Finances that are able to make reliable projections. On this point, I refer you to Annex 3 of the Court of Auditors' report, which highlights the critical situation of the FPS Finance research department. But no later than Tuesday, the Governor of the National Bank explained to us that he was not in a position to conduct dynamic analyses. He could only do static analyses. He referred it to the FPS Finances, whose research department, according to him, had the means to do so. But the Court of Auditors explains to us that this service is understaffed, that it is understaffed and that the replacements do not produce their effects. There is a knowledge-how, an expertise that is threatened and which, however, must be consolidated. I conclude, Mr President, by referring to the specific problems of some ministerial departments. As far as FPS Finance is concerned, I would like to reiterate that in terms of personnel, you have considered, Mr.Minister, that we had reached the bone, that it was no longer possible to make further reductions in staff. Of which act. But I think that, especially for strategic functions such as the Special Tax Inspectorate, it would be really urgent to reinvest. The hundred additional agents announced at the beginning of the legislature are in fact just a maze, since they simply came to replace departures that had occurred in the meantime. So no reinforcement. In the area of justice, allow me to denounce the fate of this particularly important budget. Since 2012, the Justice budget, which has been audited, has been reduced by 5 per cent, while current developments, including counter-terrorism measures, call for the strengthening of the means of justice. Magistrates' cadres are not filled. The conditions of detainees should be improved. Information technology should be implemented effectively and not chaoticly as is currently the case. Well, nothing. No increase. Yes, there is one for second-line legal aid, but it is simply enough to allow VAT to be paid on lawyers' fees. So no strengthening of resources for justice. At the same time, since we like international comparisons, France has increased its Justice budget by 15% since 2012. The Netherlands has also done so and its results are measured in the day-to-day functioning of justice. A word on development cooperation. It's not an insignificant budget. Again, there is a decrease in liquidation appropriations, almost 3% compared to 2017. But in reality, there is much worse behind this decline. The Court of Auditors has stressed in its report that, through the blockage mechanism, there is already an announced underutilisation of EUR 120 million. Taking this into account in reality, the reduction in the development cooperation budget will be 12.5 per cent compared to 2017. From a multi-year perspective, compared to the 2014 adjusted budget, the last budget of the previous legislature, the decrease in resources is 20 per cent. I do not want to overburden the government further, but I would also like to point out that the development cooperation budget includes expenses related to the reception expenses of asylum seekers in Belgium. More than 16 per cent of the overall budget is devoted to the reception of refugees, so Belgium is ultimately the first recipient of its own development aid, which is still a great deal. In any case, what is certain is that we are very far from the 0.7% of GDP target that should be devoted to development aid. We've never been so low. [[In 2016 we were 0.49%, in 2017 at 0.44%.]] We will be 0.40% in 2018. Defense. The Minister for Budget explained that, for budgetary reasons, liquidation appropriations would only come from the delivery of orders. All right. The problem is that this cost is then to be included in future fiscal years in the budget path, and that is not the case. Therefore, we can really be concerned about the budgetary capacity of future governments to assume the necessary reinvestment in defence capabilities. In any case, it is certain, too, that beyond the self-satisfied comments of the government – as if the end of the reductions was a major victory! – a very difficult observation is made by NATO. It produced an analysis of the actual spending of Alliance members. We are at 0.91% of GDP. This rate puts us in the penultimate position, just ahead of Luxembourg. Apart from this last state, we are the worst contributors to the Alliance. Objectively, this is a problem. I won't be much longer, Mr. President. I could also have addressed the issue of health care, but I imagine you will have an opportunity to discuss it later. As far as employment is concerned, I will not go back to the juxtaposition of sub-statuts, so flexi-jobs coexist with overtime in the Horeca, they find themselves without overtime in the retail trade, self-employment mechanisms develop without knowing exactly what it is, and defi-calized hours are introduced into the associative sector. All this is set up next to classical work. We can sincerely fear that this will result in a form of internal social dumping in our country. I could also have gone back to the Department of the Interior's expenses. Here again, we feel that the means are insufficient, in any case in relation to the needs expressed, in particular, by the local police areas. Thank you for your good attention and wish you an excellent evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the sitting, I would like to make a service announcement. We shall now hear a number of so-called smaller groups. Then comes the reply of the two ministers concerned, followed, if necessary, by the replies, if that is the question. Then we will take a ten-minute break to reset the system. Then we come to the thematic chapters. I have here a list of ministers and registered speakers. I would ask that everyone who is registered for the thematic chapters should report so that, if people cease to speak, we can let the ministers concerned know that they do not have to come to the Chamber. I therefore ask all those who are registered for the thematic debates to confirm their presence and presentation in order to be able to react in a practical way. Mrs Caprasse, Mrs Gerkens and Mr Nollet already confirm their presence. I assume all three of them would like to have a debate with Mrs Marghem. (Applause) Mrs Pas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current budget does not contain sufficient structural measures, a state debt that remains hallucinatingly high, a permanent structural imbalance between revenue and expenditure, a public debt that is still above 50% of GDP. Since the start of the government, about 80 posts have been added to the tax bill. The European Commission has already pointed out that Belgium has fallen into a rather unenviable company, together with Portugal, Spain and Italy, among others, those southern European countries of which Minister Van Overtveldt, while he was still a journalist at Trends, made budget policy a reality. I wonder, if Minister Van Overtveldt had chosen a different career and would still write for Trends, what he would write today about, for example, the measure to allow people to buy off pension rights for their academic years. That's gonna get us some money now, but that's gonna cost more later. I think he would have written something in the style of his interview with the LVSV a few years ago. I quote: 'People who say budgetwise: that is all for next year or the year after, but we are already taking this up in advance; these people belong in prison and not in the Rue de la Loi.' The promised strength of change was that the budgetary figures would come together. Remember that at the time the Minister of Finance actually made this a commitment of the current government. The budgetary balance was the condition, the reason why the Community has been in the fridge for years and the promise that the voter was promised in 2014 was very clear. I quote: Di Rupo left us a huge structural deficit in the budget. That needs to change. The N-VA wants to get the accounts in order. With a budget in balance, we are creating room for a new policy and reducing our debts. For the third year in a row, that promise can be catalogued in the category of cheap café talk, because nothing comes into the house. The only change that appears in the budget is the change in the majority party's budget marketing. It has been constantly updated over the past three years. The focus on a budget in balance shifted the year after to a focus on a structural balance. Afterwards, the focus was shifted to the financing balance and the balance of claims, not to have to include the sovereign debt issue. That communication was constantly updated. Why should these adjustments be necessary if everything is going as well as is constantly claimed? First of all, putting the economy in order was the great objective on which this government could be dealt with. Now the budget is mentioned in a long line and it has become one small aspect on which the government would fail. The budgetary balance has always been shifted and has now been postponed to the next legislature. Whatever the promise or adjustment it was, moving the target date or a structural budget balance, it does not matter, because the government is not getting anywhere near it. The government is not getting its budget in order. The year 2018 announces itself as the least bad year, but from 2019 onwards the deficit continues and in 2020 it doesn't look any better. Après nous le déluge seems like the motto. In Knack today, I read that Secretary of State Francken says that a balanced budget does not win elections. That statement illustrates precisely the problem: governments are thinking about these and previous issues in the short term, namely until the next ballot. However, budgetary balance must not be sought because Europe is asking for it or because it can win elections with it or not. Budgetary balance is precisely a question of good governance. Deficiencies are detrimental to the economy. People are not stupid, because they know that in the long term everything has to be paid off. If you were working on that, you might not even have to think about inventing measures to activate the savings. The people who are financially capable of doing so are now taking their money as a precaution. We need surpluses if we are to be able to pay for the rising costs of pensions. In this respect, the majority member was right when he said about this budget in the newspaper: "This is not a sustainable policy vis-à-vis our children and grandchildren." Indeed, you are transferring debts to the next generations and doing exactly what you accused the previous government of doing. Above all, the budget is a missed opportunity to bring about change. However, the opportunity to take care of a tilting moment did serve itself, because a lot of important external factors are involved. Economic growth is being revised upwards because growth in the world is higher than previously estimated. Belgium elevates as an open economy and as a lazy dog just along on that better economic situation. It is hardly the merit of this government, which is not ambitious and is paying particular attention to the shop, but it is no more than that. So far, the government has also been greatly helped in its budgetary restructuring by falling interest charges on high debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u91	Mr Van Rompuy wishes to intervene, Mrs Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u92	You say that the deficit is getting worse for the third consecutive year, that the government is failing. However, in 2017, the deficit has just been reduced, nominally by 1% and structurally by 0.8 %. Now we're at about 1.4 to 1.5 %. That's a half cut since the beginning of the legislature. During my speech earlier, I also said that I would like to call for a balance to be struck in the long term. But you speak as if nothing has happened. 10 billion has been saved. Measures have been taken in relation to the tax shift and employment. Jobs were created. Purchasing power has increased. Flemish Interest does not see any bilan. The budget deficit has been halved, there have been 150 000 to 200 000 jobs added, purchasing power has increased. There are also some negative things. I am the first member of the majority to identify the weaknesses. But your discourse is truly questionable. You are quoting Mr Theo Francken as a kind of budgetary authority. Apparently, he gave an interview on the budget balance. I do not know if that is the position of the Minister of Finance, but we should not give the man any more credit than he deserves. He may be the most popular Flemish politician, but he knows nothing about budget problems. I would therefore like to distance myself completely from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u93	Mr Van Rompuy, I have said that for the third year in a row the commitment to balance the budget has not been met. That is the reason why we have agreed to a Community standstill. The government was allowed to take care of that, but that is absolutely no longer the case today. If I quote Mr Francken, that only shows how little one is interested in the balance of the budget. People are only interested in the next elections, but not in the long term. It is not an issue of concern to the next generations to be burdened with debts. You have just said that it is up to the opposition to be critical. Then you cannot ignore the fact that we still have a number of problems in terms of inefficient government, fiscal pressure and public debt in this country. It is therefore logical for me to focus on this. I'm also talking about the positives. I said that the external factors are not bad. The world economy is attracting attention, and we can benefit from this economic situation. The one who may have saved the most in this legislature for this government is the President of the European Central Bank. Due to its flexible policy, the Belgian government can benefit from low interest rates. I read today in De Tijd that the negative short-term interest rate yielded EUR 166 million to the Treasury in 2017. That situation will not last. Interest rates will rise in the long term, and you will have a serious problem with the huge public debt that is still there today. We will then have to save much more, only on interest, in order to be able to pay that public debt. Today, with the low interest rates, the government is clearly failing to bring down the sovereign debt properly. However, all government parties have promised this before the elections. CD&V even put numbers on it. According to CD&V, the government debt would be reduced by a fifth in five years. That was the election promise at the time. In other words, public debt should reach 80% of GDP by 2019. In the past, the target was at a maximum of 60% of GDP. This objective is set out in the Maastricht Treaty. Our Finance Minister even calls it ambitious today in his policy paper to bring public debt below 100% by the end of this governance period. Moreover, the government debt has already been artificially reduced by adjusting the definition of gross domestic product. The European Union has been allowing drugs and prostitution to be included in that GDP for a number of years. So public debt remains a major problem. I agree with you, Mr Van Rompuy, that the main problem of this budget is not on the revenue side but on the expenditure side, unlike other rhetoric I have heard from the opposition here today. However, I do have a question for you on the revenue side, Minister. For a number of years there has been a debate at European level on tax reform in Europe. That will be a first step towards a federal tax union. Tax revenue largely determines the budget. I have found that Belgium, almost as the only Member State, has repeatedly sent its cat to the hearings with Commissioner Moscovici, who is responsible for this tax union, in cooperation with the European Parliament. Almost all countries send delegations to them, but Belgium was mainly noticed by its absence. Can you explain whether it is a conscious strategy of the government not to be there? However, I am interested in your position on the CCCTB and the CCCTB, which are coming and will have an impact on tax revenues. On the expenditure side, the limited speaking time does not allow me to spend on the additional resources provided for in this draft budget for members of the royal family, including for Laurent, and for Unia, which you can simply stop by supporting my amendments. I would like to say that there is still a great deal of room for savings. There is still room for real improvement on the expenditure side. However, a number of taboos need to be discussed. The billions of euros that go to asylum and migration in this country are not questioned. Those costs don't stop. An example from this budget: one is even going to purchase an extra site in Lower Over Heembeek as a registration centre for asylum seekers, which should be opened from 1 January 2019. The purchase price is 12 million euros. Nor is spending on the European Union cut. When we look at the budget line, or only the operating costs of the European Union, it is noted that the government pays more than EUR 3 billion every year. For 20 years in a row, the European Court of Auditors has rejected the European Union's accounts, mostly because of billions of unlawful costs, but every year it gives billions of dollars for the operation of that European Union. So it not only provides national budgets that go in the red, because of its failing policy on the euro and on the refugee invasion, but it also adds a wretched amount of money to the European Union itself. A gift to the EU for bad policies, as it were. I wonder if that amount can't be drastically reduced. There are a lot of agencies in the European Union that do not use up their resources every year but simply transfer them to the next year. It would be logical for this money to return to the Member States first with a distribution key before paying in extra. I come to the conclusion that this government is doing exactly what it accused the previous one of shifting debts to the next generations. Because of this favourable economic situation and the sharp fall in interest charges, this budget could have been a turning point to offer a new perspective. Despite the increase in tax revenues and the low interest charges, there is still a billion deficit. People will look back on this later as a missed opportunity to finally get the accounts in order. The promise to put socio-economic order in place, in exchange for freezing the Flemish demands, does not make any difference at all. I am not surprised that real change is impossible within the Belgian framework. Here the problem is managed instead of solved. The inefficient government does not allow fiscal pressure and public debt to improve. A lower tax burden and social protection are perfectly achievable within Flanders. There will also be challenges there. However, I am convinced that these can be dealt with only in Flanders. Today we have to observe that the Fleming works longer, but above all continues to pay. He continues to pay for less social rights and less pension. I would also like to mention the reduction in family allowances as an example. I wonder if this is the change the Flemings have voted for. Is this the fair deal we're being offered? So you will not be surprised that my group will not support this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group has only a few minutes to explain why it will not support the bill containing the 2018 budget. So I will stick to the essentials. I believe that in order to appreciate the method used by the government in preparing its budget, it may be necessary to look into the mirror and to remember what the budgets of previous years have achieved and how they have been implemented. For example, it is known that there was an important conclave in 2016 on essential budgetary measures. Did they produce the expected results and announced at the time? Like other colleagues, I will obviously refer to the analyses carried out by various bodies which have been asked to express their views. First of all, the Court of Auditors, contained in its 174th Cahier. In this analysis, the Court did not fail to verify the implementation of the tax measures previously decided. I quote her on page 39 of her Cahier: "The 2016 tax achievements are generally $3,146 million lower than the estimates made by the government in May 2016." That's a first fact. I would like to acknowledge that some measures have not been included in the Court of Auditors' estimate, such as the abolition of excess profit regulation. But other evidence leads us to believe that budget estimates are often misleading in the head of government. Again, I quote the Court of Auditors, which points out that "the lesser achievements relate essentially to all the main categories of tax revenue." To be more precise, I will stop, for example, at the effect of permanent tax regularisation or DLU. In principle, this measure can be discussed in order to determine whether it can retain a permanent character, which nevertheless constitutes a form of encouragement to pursue a tax evasion which can then be regularised. According to estimates made by the government in previous fiscal years, the permanent tax regularization should have brought in 250 million euros. Although it was implemented very late, the number of applications for regularisation and closed cases remained below the prognosis of the projects. It is estimated that the permanent adjustment would have brought in only EUR 60 to 70 million. The Court also continued and wondered about the performance of several measures that it could not assess revenue; it had been discussed. In particular, it appears that the Cayman tax which is supposed to combat tax evasion effectively is integrated into other revenue - the personal tax discount - and here too, valuation is difficult. However, I would like to remind you that the government was counting on 460 million euros in revenue in cruise speed. Today, the government, in its budget forecasts, adds $50 million to this revenue estimate. It seems that so far we are far from this figure and that at most some forty or fifty million have been registered, in application of the Cayman tax scheme as adopted in the programme law of August 2015. It is true that you will tighten up the mechanisms of the Cayman tax, but did we not say at the time that it was misconceived and that there was a need for a more precise legal tax mechanism? It's only now that you're considering it. It's late and so it's time lost to properly collect this tax. I could also mention the following revenue reductions, according to the Court of Auditors' report: - excise duty on tobacco: - 113 million compared to forecast; - excise duty on alcohol: - 32 million; - Diamond tax: - 12 million; - VAT on gambling: - 28 million. If I continue the Court of Auditors' analysis and look at the financing of the shift tax which is supposed to improve the purchasing power of households, the Court states, on page 41 of its report, that "the FPS Finance is still unable to calculate the actual cost of tax reduction". In other words, even within the FPS Finance administration, the budgetary cost of the reform is not yet known. In previous budgetary conclaves, we had not failed to recall that since the beginning of the reforms carried out by this government, the tax shift has not been financed. The opinion of the National Bank published on August 10, 2017 also draws our attention and its estimates deserve to be analysed with the utmost attention. According to information from the National Bank, the unfunded balance of the government's tax shift amounts to some EUR 4 786 million by 2020. Most of this underfunding is in the years 2019 and 2020. It will therefore be necessary to explain to me how our state, in such circumstances, will succeed in achieving the budget target in 2019. Yet, on many occasions, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance had said that the tax shift would be fiscally neutral, that - and I quote the Prime Minister - "money is there, the tax shift is a funded commitment". I think it was a bit daring - and when I say a little, it's an understatement - and totally incantatory. According to the Court, after taking into account the expected impact of the measures adopted by the government in the initial 2018 budget, entity 1's funding balance would increase from -0.5% of GDP in 2018 to -1.2% in 2019 and 2020; a decline of 0.7%. The structural balance of the same entity would increase from -0,7 in 2018 to -1,1 % in 2019 to -1,2 % in 2020. I'm saving you the amounts in absolute numbers. In other words, if you add to these estimates the low return on tax revenues of about $3 billion, you will not be able to deny that there is a major risk of fiscal slippage. I will only briefly address the reform of corporate tax, because I regret that we have not been able to discuss it. I do not claim that everything that is envisaged by the government, with respect to this measure, is wrong. I will analyse it technically and legally. So I don't come here with a negative a priori. Indeed, I consider this corporate tax reform to be necessary. Moreover, I had introduced a bill to that effect. We will see where convergences and divergences are. However, let us not hide it: the funding remains, at least, uncertain or even totally suspicious. Again, you hope to obtain funding for several measures, of which I am not sure they will have the desired effect. When tax reform is undertaken, we must never underestimate the change in the behaviour of taxpayers – in this case, commercial companies. The modification of the system of notional interests, on the one hand, and of the system of capital reduction, on the other hand, allow you to try to balance the budgetary consequences of the reform of corporate tax. As regards the first case, the Court of Auditors states that the latest data on the deduction of notional interest date back to 2015. So they're out of date. Given the low interest rate in recent years and the volatile nature of corporate equity, the impact must be understood – and I quote the Court of Auditors – "with caution". The Court is therefore once again cautious, but the government does not take this into account. It foresees a recipe of nearly 2.5 billion in cruise speed. Yet, in my view, the warning is fully justified, as notional interests are no longer as beneficial for companies as they have been in the past. As far as capital reduction reform is concerned, it is ideologically interesting, but its budgetary consequences must be well assessed. It is clear that this reduction will no longer be beneficial for businesses as it will be partially taxed. There is a significant risk that more than one company will reduce its capital before the measure is adopted or simply abandon it. Consequently, the expected revenue (about 100 million) will not be reached. We will not go back to the returns of the tax on securities accounts. A substantial amount of revenue is included in the 2018 budget: 254 million. You made a rule of three uncertain - the Prime Minister having declared that he did not want a cadastre - and therefore estimated, it seems, figures from the National Bank, that of the EUR 545 billion held on securities accounts, 31% exceeded the threshold giving rise to the application of the tax (EUR 500 000). So $160 billion potentially falls within the scope of the new tax. You obviously apply 0.15% to this amount, which gives you the 254 million expected revenue. This seems obvious, but it is not because you will have legal challenges on the threshold amount. We will see what the Constitutional Court will decide in the event of an appeal. But I am not sure that your basis for estimating amounts held on the securities accounts is fully verified and verifiable, in the absence of a real cadastre. In view of all these uncertainties and the negative outlook in terms of the evolution of our country's structural deficit - even if efforts have been made, in particular through more or less adjusted expenditure cuts, particularly in the area of regal competences, with adverse consequences for the effectiveness of the police services and the justice system - you will understand that I believe that the government is far from fulfilling the commitment announced in the policy statement at the time of its taking up office. I would point out that this majority, which is intended to be a right-wing majority, is always more reliable in terms of budget estimates and measures taken to maintain budgetary balance. It was, it seems, the trademark and what made the difference between this government and the previous one. Remind the MR that since 1999 he has sat continuously in all these governments, what he does not know... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u95	All right, me too. I say that because very often it is suggested that everything was negative under previous governments and that everything would become exceptional today. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u96	Of course, we have never heard that, it is true! That goes without saying, I invent these sentences! It is an illusion that I have, but the real illusion is the one that you hold with public opinion today. You suggest that you are rigorous in the management of public funds, which, however, departs from reality when figures and estimates are compared, estimates made by the Court of Auditors, the European Commission and other bodies such as the OECD - a recent OECD report shows that it is not so favourable to Belgium. I will not go back, others will talk about the growth rates of GDP, the rates of job creation. Whether it pleases or not, Belgium has not positioned itself in the lead of European countries, neither the euro area nor the European Union in terms of GDP growth and job creation. We are far from the objectives announced by this government at the beginning of its term of office. Rather, we are confronted with illusions and appearances. As with other subjects, but we will discuss them again when we discuss other topics, these illusions and appearances are no longer misleading, whether in terms of public safety or the energy pact. We'll talk about it again! This is probably the major fact of today: even the government declaration no longer engages all the partners of the majority. This is probably the first lesson of the political day: the low blows have become so regular within the majority today that its cohesion is about to burst completely. It is still rather deplorable to see that the governments of the federated entities contribute fairly to the elaboration of an energy pact, all majorities combined and they are diverse, and to note that a majority partner in the federal government decides to question such fundamental commitments, which, although sometimes in pain, brought, for once, a somewhat significant ambitious project. Of course, it was necessary for a majority partner to try to keep him in check. We will check, in the coming days and weeks, to the point where there is still a framework in the majority of government to simply abide by a commitment based on the law, as I recall, a law that was passed some time ago, in 2003.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u97	Mr. Maingain, thank you. You are inscribed as the only speaker for Ministers Wilmès, Van Overtveldt and Demir.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u98	To avoid further disturbing, Mr. Chairman, consider that, if I am the only one, I am withdrawing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lack of a Prime Minister in this House. We've already said it. But I think the Prime Minister's head is missing too. I'm not talking about Bart De Wever, of course. I'm talking about the real leader! Over again! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u101	The FEB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u102	All right! Mrs Wilmès won. I agree with you, Mrs Wilmès, that the FEB is indeed the true head of this government because, when it comes to determining what increases in employment are attributable to government policy, there is no one to save this government policy, except the FEB. When we have to keep figures for growth, only one actor is in line with the government, it's the FEB. When it is necessary to introduce the corporate tax reform, who is entitled to this first step? Even on the day when the reform is to be discussed in the House, parliamentarians do not have the text but, of course, the FEB has the first time for a lunch conference. I hope lunch was good, minister. When the government comes out of the corporate tax reform, the FEB says it is satisfied but still finds that the importance of the gift should be increased, i.e. to increase the deduction of RTD from 95 to 100%, which the government is doing immediately. When it appears that the budgetary neutrality of this corporate tax reform is quite doubtful, which is to say that, in the end, it is not serious if it is not budgetaryly neutral? It's still the FEB. The FEB is not here and the Prime Minister is not present. That is a shame because, this time, it is written black and white, in your budget, Madam Minister, Minister: this government will finish the legislature without having restored the balance of the budget, so by flouting one of its main promises. Finally, it is the double penalty for the population. This is both austerity and a lack of budgetary rigour. This was already the case in previous years. This is even more dramatic this year because the economic situation is favourable, not because of this government, but because of the international situation. In fact, the situation in Belgium is worse than in the rest of the euro area. This favourable situation could have been an opportunity to loosen a little the austerity imposed by this 2014 government. Nothing is done at this level since if there are margins, it is to give gifts to the capital. This budget contains a real bomb: the reform of corporate tax. Let us remember a little a tax Frankenstein of the past that deduces Didier Reynders' notional interests. Let us recall the budgetary commitments linked to notional interests: it will be half a billion costs offset budget, therefore neutral. With the reform of corporate tax, we are in the same line of argument on fiscal neutrality. The starting point is not half a billion but five billion, ten times more. Imagine that the slip that we have experienced with notional interests is proportional here in the slip that there will inevitably be on corporate tax reform. Imagine what this is going to cause in terms of budget damage. This reform is five billion or more, if we count the extra gifts against lower rates - RTD, tax consolidation and so on. What do we see? The tax niches which, in the government's speech, should have been removed or seriously eroded as compensation for the fall in rates, are still there. They have not been deleted. Excess profit ruling has been removed in order to meet a European obligation. The Council of State had reminded the government. It was voted last week if I have a good memory. This has nothing to do with the government's will, since it was a European obligation. On the contrary, new niches are created. I just talked about it. No one believes in budgetary neutrality. From the European Commission to the Court of Auditors, everyone has serious doubts. Even the government propaganda agency, the BNB, called to the rescue to support an attack on reform on all sides, has not dared to question its credibility by claiming that there was budgetary neutrality. Finally, Charles Michel's head, Bart De Wever, said on the front page of the Trends that "the corporate tax reform is a tax reduction." It is not, by definition, budget neutral. The FEB and Bart de Wever say: no neutrality. The two leaders of Charles Michel say that the reform is not neutral and should not be neutral. Who's gonna pay? Foremost the population, the workers. Questions may arise about lowering corporate tax rates. This does not improve competitiveness. The tax comes after profit, after the production process. The question is what will go to shareholders' dividends and what will go to the public community. Obviously, we're choosing dividends here. At the end of the 1970s, the corporate tax rate was 48 per cent and even, with the solidarity tax, 52.5 per cent. Here, we're going down to 25% - an erosion of more than half. In the medium term, some trade union organizations prognosis the zero rate. What is clear, as the OECD notes, in recent years is that there has been a shift from business taxation to household taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u103	Mr President, I did not intend to intervene a priori. However, by hearing Mr. Van Hees, I feel like we're wearing 1950 glasses again and we're in a grey society. I have the impression that, for you, entrepreneurs must, at a minimum, be extremely controlled and, at the most, be in prison. That's your corporate culture! Remember that businesses are, first and foremost, job-creating. That is what we need most today. Then you practice the culture of suspicion. As soon as a reform is put on the track, you react as conservatives, you don't want to change anything - especially, don't change anything! That's how you hope to happen... But the population is smarter than you. I'll add that you're frustrated. Finally, when a measure is adopted, you consider that it will benefit only the one you call Charles Michel's "head", that is, the FEB. Do I ask you if your leader is Kim Il-sung and all his descendants? We're sick of it! The black and white world is over, Mr. Van Hees! You know the Berlin Wall fell? Otherwise, I'll take you by the hand and show you that he's gone. We'll go to a company. The leaders of an SME will tell you what their daily challenges are to create jobs - not to steal the state, as you constantly suspect. Frankly, Mr. Van Hees, change the register a little! The 45 laps are over!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u104	Mr Flahaux, thank you for this very deep reflection. I even find it difficult to find that answering is so deep! If colleagues agree, I will not answer it. I don't know what I can tell you. I know that when you have nothing to say, you're talking about North Korea. I feel like you have nothing to say! You're applying old recipes. We know that the Minister of Finance is a fan of Milton Friedman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u106	I note that this government is benefiting a minority, 1% of the population. The richest take advantage of these measures. I quoted the numbers on income transfers earlier. I could repeat them to you, but my speaking time is running out. These are numbers. You're coming with untangible arguments, Mr. Flahaux. The National Bank's figures show that the distribution of national income was profoundly altered during this legislature. And that would be even more important over a period of thirty years. Ten points of GDP went from the workers' pocket to the companies' caisses. This is a reality that is the result of austerity policies. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u107	To the companies, and then to the shareholders. Companies are a relay for shareholders. On the other hand, this government has a calculator problem, but we are used to it. The European Commission and the Court of Auditors note this, not only for ISOC, but also for all other measures: securities accounts, lower social contributions. The Court of Auditors even speaks of "brouillard". In this regard, I still note the rebellion - I don't know if I can call it that - of Minister Wilmès. Already now, she was attacking the FEB. But in addition, during the discussions in committee, in order to defend its budget, it begins to attack the European Commission, whose "budget verdicts are never substantiated and with which it is necessary to fight firmly just to have explanations." You're the one who said that, Mrs. Wilmès. I don't know if you remember. In any case, within the government, there is a small pockets of resistance to the European Commission, a rather unsuspecting awareness of the budgetary dictatorship exercised by the European Commission over the various Member States, in particular Belgium. Compared to sales of assets - BNP Paribas and, for the future, Belfius - there is a question that has remained unanswered. It is to know what is the balance between the interest paid less on the public debt, if the debt is reduced, and the dividends collected. There's a balance that we'd like to know about. We never got an answer. The only answer is that in order to be seen by the Commission it is necessary to reduce the debt rate even if it appears - but we do not have the answer - that budgetaryly it is a bad operation. Finally, the European dictates are quite counterproductive on a budgetary level. With regard to the tax shift, we are not going to repeat what has already been said in previous years. There is evidence that reductions in so-called employer contributions continue along with other ways of dewatering social security, such as flexi-jobs and occasional work. We really have a de-financing of the Secu. On the other hand, pensions are said to be more and more difficult to pay because you live older and life expectancy increases. But if we definance the Secu, of course, other problems arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u108	Mijnheer Van Hees, ten eerste, u spreekt over the definancing of social security. Is social security balanced or not according to the figures calculated by the Court of Auditors in 2017? It's about the prospects the Court of Auditors put out on social security. You state that the government is emptying the social security greenhouses. Is there, however, a balance, a surplus or a heavy deficit in social security? Secondly, you claim that there is no social protection, such as pensions and health insurance. But can you tell me how much there are for social security? I would ask you for two specific figures. First of all, is social security in balance? Secondly, how much does social security spend?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u109	Mr Van Rompuy, social security is in balance. Why? Because his expenses are reduced! For sure, she's in balance. The method of financing social security has been changed. This will mean that, for the next few years, the system will use social security as a variable for budgetary adjustment. That's right! This is the method of financing social security through the law that you voted for a year ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u110	You get almost 20% in Wallonia with that kind of statement. And we're not answering that. Is social security in deficit or not? What can I do for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u111	I answered you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u112	Expenditure on health insurance is still rising. Social expenditure has increased by EUR 2 billion this year and so on. You're falling into left-wing populism. You often attack Trump, but you identify left-wing populism in Europe in your own way, and the Waalen walk in it, because you get almost 20%, or still 18%, in the polls. I hope it doesn't come true. I call on everyone to expose you. You'll never be contradicted. It is said that it is the PTB, but in the meantime these things continue to go into people's minds. I also think that the government should replicate more about you and expose you. Every number you mention is wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u113	The government will answer later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u114	You can also talk about the PVDA. It exists in the north of the country. The security account tax plans to raise EUR 254 million. It is very unambitious in relation to the fortunes that exist. 1% of the wealthiest represents EUR 450 billion of wealth. Yet, it is very ambitious in relation to DIY on this tax. This DIY is not centered on the greatest fortunes but on small fortunes, those who use securities accounts, knowing that the greatest fortunes do not use them. One wonders who inspired this measure, which will not work at the level of control since the Prime Minister said that there was no question of setting up a cadastre of fortunes. We are therefore organizing the own failure of this measure. Mr. Van Rompuy, you're used to it. All the emblems that the CD&V obtained during this Parliament were broken each time. We will remember the speculation tax: a year later it is in the trash! You get caught every time and I think the same will apply to the security account tax. You're gonna get caught again, but you're used to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u115	You have two minutes left, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u116	Mr. President, I was interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u117	It's calculated!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u118	Good thing there's someone who can calculate! On the subject of tax evasion, we are talking about fanciful, unverifiable amounts with the Cayman tax. I'm not going back. The Panama Papers Commission has broken all ambition to fight tax fraud. In the wake of the non-conclusions of this Panama Papers commission, a minister goes back to measures that were in his anti-fraud plan, such as Antigone legislation. Even Mr Schäuble is upset about our Finance Minister when it comes to making some progress in Europe. You are holding things back at the level of Belgium and you are holding things back at the level of the European Union, Mr Finance Minister. Somewhere, it's normal! When a minister has this ultraliberal ideology that proclaims submission to multinationals and we know that tax avoidance by all possible means is part of one of the constants of their policy, it will necessarily be a minister who fights against the great tax fraud. Even yesterday, the criminal transaction was voted in committee. There is therefore a willingness not to fight fraud and to establish class justice in this country, the richest fraudsters never going to prison. I could also have told you about the staff at FPS Finance and the ISI. Your hundred ISI agents, Mr. Minister of Finance, we've been looking for them. We counted them. Finally, there are twenty. When it was said that you could not count: a hundred and twenty, it is not the same thing. I'm not going to go back to the employment figures. Other colleagues have done so. However, I would like to say that there is indeed a precarisation of employment. In terms of spending, there is an area where an effort is being made by this government. That's the exception to austerity. It's about the defense. I am not going to go back to the debate with Mrs Wilmès earlier on when this will have an impact on the budget. I believe that the decision to strengthen troops in Afghanistan will still have an effect on the 2018 budget. This decision has just been made by the minister, but you obviously could not foresee it. For the rest, when Trump, who sets the world on fire and blood, calls for increased investment in armaments, it's followed by effects. I could still talk about justice, SNCB, health. Since the minister is here, I still have a few comments on health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u119	There are thematic debates for this, Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u120	I conclude on two points, Mr President. As far as the Kiwi model is concerned, we can see that in the budget for medicines, what weighs heavily is all that goes towards multinational pharmaceutical companies. That's why we need to reduce other health spending. Minister, you know that we have a Kiwi model that would allow patients and health insurance to earn $632 million. You see, Mr Van Rompuy, that we have proposals to both relieve the patient and both have budgetary objectives. The second point is the medical homes. Few people understand, Madam Minister, that you are attacking medical homes. Do you know that the PTB has created medical homes that care for 25,000 patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u121	Mr Van Hees, the minister wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u122	Mr Van Hees, as far as the kiwi model is concerned, you were not here, but I invited you to take note of all the comments on the matter when Minister Demotte wanted to implement the kiwi model in our system of medical reimbursement of medication. I couldn't. I hear from your claim that you're just copying an idiotic amount, which has already been refuted. It has already been proven when you spoke earlier about social security, that you seem unable to count. Secondly, I did not attack the maisons médicales. I only ask that government money be spent cost-effectively on the maisons for the benefit of the patient, without any other action being taken. Is that good governance or bad governance? If you want to do that differently, you can defend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u123	You have a maximum of one minute left to conclude, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u124	Mr. President, I don't need a minute. I will simply state some advantages since a recent study has shown them. We do not agree with the Kiwi model. I was quoting new figures, not outdated ones. A recent study of medical homes shows that care is of high quality, that it is not more expensive for social security, that it is obviously cheaper, if not free, for the patient, that prevention policy is better, that fewer antibiotics are prescribed and that more cheap medicines are also prescribed. I don't know why you're fighting these medical homes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u125	We must not preach things that are not true here. They're twice as expensive in the first line. There's no cheaper prescription. The so-called "heated-up" study of the InterMutualist Agency states that they cost 200 % in the first line. This means that a private physician prescribes 100 % and she prescribes 200 %. So that's twice as expensive. You call that "Christmas"? You call that "Christmas." Secondly, in the second line, expenditure on residential homes, for example, is lower. However, they have a much younger audience. Of course, those young people won't end up in retirement homes. One must not compare apples with pears.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u126	One more sentence, Mr. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u127	Minister, I assume your figures come from KPMG, which conducts on-demand audits based on the conclusions that we want. We know that kind of study, minister. Mr President, I conclude. In the face of this FEB towel government, the PTB advocates a policy for people rather than for profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party also regrets the absence of the Prime Minister for the very important debates this evening in this House. Having said that, the government wants to be very enthusiastic and even exciting. It announces massive job creation, rising growth rates, debt reduction and an increase in disposable income. And he adds: "an ambitious and fair budget". This could obviously be good news. At least one good news! The budgetary balance is again postponed. You continue to take no sufficient and effective action for future generations. This is regrettable even if the debt rate is reduced. We see that the trade balance is returning to a positive level. Our companies are becoming more competitive. That is indeed encouraging. However, on the ground, we do not have the same perception of your enthusiasm. Citizens are directly affected by the increase in basic necessities or by certain medicines. Too many people still have to choose between heating up or treating themselves. That's not acceptable! Substantial increases in wages or social benefits are found to be insufficient in terms of the cost of living. You rely on forecasts from the National Bank or the Plan Office, which are regularly revised downwards, and you acknowledge that the tax shift is not funded. Is this serious? Because of the lack of medium- and long-term vision, incomplete or superficial structural reforms, you are not achieving your financial and economic objectives despite the efforts you are asking for from workers and social beneficiaries. Your expenses are still too large and unoptimized. I will take the Energy Pact as an example. The nuclear release is scheduled in a few months, but you still don't know what you're going to do. This situation inevitably favours uncertainty in the head of potential investors, but also in the population, who wonders what the amount of their electricity bill will be in a few months' time. On the other hand, you are embarking on reforms in which workers' social rights are severely attacked without transitional or safeguard clauses. You change the rules of the game during the game. This is unacceptable and too brutal. In fact, you try not to displease anyone and you discontent everyone, even within your majority. However, we are aware that the work was enormous in view of the situation in our country in 2013. But you seem to us to be a rough draft to correct the Belgian economic landscape. Therefore, you must shoulder your responsibilities in order to achieve deeper but more social reforms. Workers should not be the only target; self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises should not be the only target. You tell us that your budget is ambitious and fair. These are two strong qualifiers given the lack of ambition in the reform of justice for example or your mobility policy. You're talking narrowly, but what do our pensioners think? Moreover, we expect your government, which plays a leading role in the European Union, to stop blindly obeying, sometimes against our own interests, to appear as the right student of the class. You must anticipate social fraud, social dumping and tax evasion. Once is not customary. I will make no mention of the migration crisis which, whether you want it or not, represents a real cost to Belgium. In conclusion, I have regularly abstained from voting on the budgets of previous years, thinking that you are going to deepen your policy, give it a dimension in time. But it must be noted that you persist with your gauges. Therefore, I will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u129	The government has the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your interventions. Some are more relevant than others. I would rather agree with Mr. Van Rompuy. It is regrettable that no further action is needed in relation to the elucubrations of the PTB. The only problem is that if we were to systematically contradict their exaggerations, their shortcuts or even their voluntary mistakes, if I could say so, we would not move forward. Of all the interventions, if there is one that is full of mistakes, it is the one that we were given to hear at the end of the day by the PTB. This afternoon's discussions follow on from the work started in committee and it has been said on several occasions that it is sufficient to consult the reports to see that we have answered all the questions, some of which were extremely technical, point by point. If I may, I shall limit my speech to general aspects of budgetary work. Budget work on 2.6 billion represents 0.6 per cent of efforts. This does not correspond to 0.6% improvement in the structural balance. This corresponds to 0.3% improvement in the structural balance. It is a policy totally assumed by this government. If we had had to comply with all European regulations, we should have worked on an effort of 6 billion, which we did not intend to do for fear of breaking the economic recovery. At the same time, we have worked on structural recovery measures. You will have understood that I am referring specifically to corporate tax for this year. Why? It's been said several times. Because a balanced budget is good, but a balanced budget without growth, with a non-existent economic dynamic, with a sluggish economy, is a budget that does not remain in balance for a long time, hence the interest! In short, these 2.6 billion are worth less than the 0.6% demanded by the European Commission. Nor does it take into account the 0.3% structural balance improvement we have brought. We know that! We know why this is happening - this is not the first year - simply because it has a different budgetary approach. Mr Van Hees, having a critical look at a macro-budgetary model used by an institution that we know from the history recently demonstrated in 2015 and 2016 (we must not look very far), that his forecasts were not in line with the reality observed on the ground, that does not make me a Eurosceptic. Far from it! That makes me a budget minister able to take, with hindsight and tweaks, the assessments of the European Commission and who does not take them for the word of the gospel, because it makes it easier for me to criticize a government, when we see that the figures are not substantiated. Small example: in 2016, the nominal balance difference amounts to 0.4% of GDP, repeated in 2015, with a surprising effect and, if not fun, if that were at the level of citizens' perception of the objective reality of our budget: these forecasts continued to be estimated at 2.9%, while the budget years were already closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u131	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u132	Mr. Van Hees, you'll be entitled to a reply time. Go on, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. What is the European Commission's different approach? First, it does not take into consideration all the measures, which it considers to be insufficiently detailed or not yet the subject of a bill. Second, it has a discretionary approach to the amount it is going to take with respect to measures that it may take. Indeed, the way in which it takes this measure is a verified and verifiable fact, without a numerical demonstration. Mr. Piedboeuf talked about it. We must take this reality into account. It uses its own model and we discussed at length at committee meeting the particular approach to output gap and the assessment of potential growth. This subject may be too technical to be discussed in plenary. In general, we are again seeing a gap in the assessment of what will be the reality of the 2017 budget. We're one month away from the end of the year. The SPF Bosa estimates our nominal balance at 1.2, and the European Commission continues to estimate it at 1.5, so we are faced with a differential. We will analyse the results of the figures on this point. It is therefore a question of taking back the assessments of the European Commission, like those of other institutions. Does this mean that the analyses and the budget of the Belgian government are words of gospel? I'm not pretending it either. For a financial year, it is subject to upward or downward developments. It is for this reason that, in the budgetary year, it is compulsory for the month of March to carry out a first check and, if we so wish, we can carry out a second check in September. I come to the comments of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors' report was also cited to draw creative conclusions. What's the Court of Auditors' job? It consists of being critical of the budget. That is a great help for the government and for Parliament. If the Court of Auditors says that it is unable to evaluate a return, that does not mean that the return will not be there. Some of them were talking about a 3 billion-dollar risk. Well, I've heard the same thing in previous years, and we can see now that the results are there. With regard to growth rates, it is indeed true that the government has anticipated the redynamisation of growth by 0.2 % in two years. You should know that at the time we have drawn up our budget, we have used the figures of the Federal Planning Office for all expenditure and all revenue. And we have indeed provided for a cumulative redynamicisation of the growth rate of 0.2 %. In September, we noted that the Federal Planning Office itself revised growth, namely 1.7 % in 2017 and 1.7 % in 2018, compared to 1.6 % for the two years. This is an increase of 0.2 %. We note that the European Commission has also brought growth up to 1.8 % in 2018. We also see and know that, for example, growth was revised four times for 2017, from 1.2 % to 1.7 %. The conclusion is that at the time we drew up the budget, we worked with the right figures, because those were the figures available at the time. The review of growth, the anticipation of the review of growth, has been confirmed by the international institutions and by the reality in the field. With regard to the deterioration of the budget, I explained in committee that between 2018 and 2019, with unchanged policy, there would be a deterioration. What do you mean? 1. "Policy unchanged" means what it means, whether we are not anticipating the decisions that will be taken at a later date. 2. The basic reasons were explained. Let me remind you that there is, for example, an increase of 2.1 billion in primary expenditure between these two years. Among other things, for those who criticized spending in defence terms, an increase of 580 million in SEC terms. It's okay, but we still have to do it. I said that at the time in committee: "governance is planning". In the same way that it is quite normal to take the SEC correction in 2019 and to take it on budget at the Defence level, it is quite legitimate for a government to have a long-term strategic vision, and certainly with respect to expenditures such as those allocated to Defence. These are somewhat general considerations, but is this to say that remediation is over? That we are "on velvet", that everyone is wrong and that the government is right? Of course not! And I know that there had been some tendencies to shorten my remarks so that I could caricature them and come back on them later. We must continue to monitor expenditure and to monitor revenue in an extremely precise and precise manner. Are we immune from a poor assessment by the European Commission? Despite the fact that the figures show that these estimates and assessments a priori were not always the right ones? No, we are not immune from this! But I plead, as French European Commissioner Moscovici says, 'We are advocating an intelligent approach to European rules'. This means that, of course, there is a need for European rules that allow benchmarking to be established between the different countries, to ensure that all these countries not only clean up their budgetary situation but also continue to evolve in their economic development in a favourable way. All these considerations must take into account the objective reality of the ground because these European rules do not take account of the economic cycle in which these countries are located. These rules have not been designed taking into account a country's ability or willingness to invest in high-value-added strategies. I've heard of assumptions, illusions or mirrors. Personally, today, I am observing observations. Thus, in nominal balance 2014, there is a 3.1% deficit. In 2017, there was a 1.2% deficit. At the same time, we have embarked on structural reforms that have reduced the objective medium term. This term may seem a little technical. It represents the level that a country must achieve in order to secure its long-term financing. It was +0.75 per cent when we joined the government and it is now zero or even negative if we do not have to take into account the burden of debt. This is not nothing: 3.1% and 1.2% and the objective medium term which is decreasing thanks to our structural reforms in terms of pensions and economic recovery. These are findings, no illusions, not a wish! They are translated into concrete terms in terms of increasing purchasing power. I have heard everything and anything about it but there is an increase in purchasing power, real disposable income in families and an increase in job creation. We went around the question and I hope to have put a few clocks back on time, if that was still necessary!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use the same methodology as Mr Wilmès. We have had long discussions in committee on a number of details relating, inter alia, to income. I could do that again here today, but I don't think that would be the biggest interest at the moment. I would like to make a few general remarks on some of the issues that I have heard today. I will not repeat the arguments that have just been made in relation to the reason why we are slightly behind the average of the euro area in terms of growth, a difference that has now been virtually destroyed. That is real and it is partly the result of the legacy that we took with us in terms of the deficit. It was also claimed that the government had weakened the confidence of businesses and citizens. However, I note that consumer confidence has been at its highest level in 15 years and that business confidence has never been higher since 2011. That is why, in view of these figures, I think that speaking of a lack of confidence seems to me to be futile and based on wind. It has also been said that the rate of employment is difficult to improve. That is, of course, true in itself. But one must have the courage to look at the underlying reality. The employment rate is determined by two elements: on the one hand, the evolution of the active population and, on the other hand, the evolution of job creation. What do we see in terms of the active population? Belgium is one of the few countries within the euro area where the active population is still growing effectively. The European average of the evolution of the active population is negative. The fact that we have an increase in the employment rate here proves just how strong the job creation is. The low interest rate has also been mentioned several times. It is, of course, a reality. It's a reality. The policy of the European Central Bank leads to a very low interest rate. However, countries must deserve it. Indeed, we are among those whose spread (the gap) with Germany is very small. For a lot of countries, it is much higher. That is why it is not enough to point out that the central bank's policy leads to low interest rates. We must also deserve to belong to the group of those who, if I may say so, find themselves around the strongest country – in this case Germany. So that's what we did. Moreover, at the Federal Debt Agency, we are pursuing a very well thought-out coverage and forward policy whereby we have substantially extended the average maturity of the government debt over time in order to benefit fully from the current interest rate and to take it with us for as long as possible in the future. That's good policy. That is the best way to take advantage of the circumstances that are emerging and which are partly created by themselves, conferateur, as I said earlier. Then, of course, there is the evolution of debt, for which we are still above 100%. We should go into hiding as soon as possible. That's a fracture and as always, a fracture is subject to what happens to the numerator and the denominator. When one gets an acceleration of growth, one automatically gets a downward movement in the ratio. If public assets are sold in a well-thought-out context, what we do, then they also have a positive impact. Ultimately, however, the structural impact on the debt ratio must come from an improvement in the budget balance in itself, in particular the primary balance given the interest rate evolution. So far, a few general remarks. As far as revenue itself is concerned, we have left for this year with an increase in revenue of 5.1 %. We then adjusted to 5.4% and then 5.8%. According to the latest figures, which are certainly not definitive, but are still indicative, we are now close to 7%. As I explained to Mr Vanvelthoven, this is not only due to growth. There is no doubt that there is an autonomous element. I agree with Mr Laaouej when he talks about growth and other parameters. That's right. Among the other parameters, it is certain and certain that the proven effectiveness of certain measures can be found. More specifically, the regularization, about which I have heard all sorts of figures. Well, the correct figure is 300 million, of which 100 million are in the regions and 200 million are federal. A month ago, we were at 90 million and we certainly wouldn't make it. I can tell you that we are already at 140 million today, and counting. We are still two weeks away from the end of the year. Last year we saw the same phenomenon: at the end of the year, the revenue from regularisation was still very high. Then there's the cayman tax. That is where we have the problem that this is spread across all kinds of categories of income. I would like to draw particular attention to the point that I have just made. Mr Vanvelthoven is right, in the sense that the caiman tax plays in the private sphere rather than at company level. However, when people decide to abolish the structures endorsed by the Cayman tax, a number of things happen. One of them is that there is a return through various forms of taxation such as withholding tax, personal income tax and, indeed, corporate tax. That may seem like a contradiction at first sight, but it's not. The Cayman tax is fixed on private individuals, but that kind of mechanism can still have an impact on corporate tax revenues. As far as the tax shift is concerned, I would like to remind you once again that from the outset, from the moment 0 of the tax shift, the government said that a further EUR 1 billion of funding had to be provided by 2019. That remains the reality today, 13 December 2017. Of course, the tax shift has not been financed today, taking into account that fact. In fact, the figure will be from 0.2 to 0.3 % of GDP. That is exactly the billion, which the government has always formulated clearly and clearly, and on which there is really no discussion. With regard to the effects of the shift, the National Bank's report at the end of the summer was very clear in terms of investment, growth and job creation. The BNB thus refers to the creation of about 85,000 jobs. However, it notes negative aspects, since a shift tax also leads to an increase in certain taxes. It's obvious, otherwise, it wouldn't be a tax shift. The cost is approximately 30,000 jobs. In net terms, therefore, we are talking about 50,000 additional jobs. With regard to corporation tax and the securities account, I think it is an understatement to say that we will discuss this in the coming days. With regard to corporate taxation, I would like to remind you of what the National Bank has provided in terms of evaluation of this tax reform. Yesterday, by the way, there was the governor's explanation on the committee. The assessment of budgetary effects has been seriously carried out by the FPS Finance and in a conservative manner. In terms of changes in the notional interest deduction, Governor Smets clearly underlined yesterday that handling interest at cruising speed 2% is on the low side. In other words, it is an underestimating of the financing that can be obtained from this angle. Conservative and serious, therefore, especially given that payback effects were not taken into account. In its report, the National Bank refers several times to the report of the Supreme Court of Finance. After all, that report clearly states that such a reform will have important payback effects. As far as the conclusion is concerned, I can only confirm the words of the Minister for the Budget, Mrs Wilmès. We have improved 2% in terms of structural deficit. This still amounts to EUR 9 billion. This means that the work is not finished and that at least you will see two ministers here who are motivated to continue their work in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u135	Mr President, I will not reply on the whole, but on a major point in Minister Wilmès' response to the European Commission's figures. She tells us that these are numbers among others and that they must be taken in hindsight. Is that what you're telling us, minister? These are not numbers like the others! The figures of the European Commission are included in a budgetary control procedure of each Member State, with penalties to the key! How can you say that these figures are to be taken with philosophy and with hindsight? If, as you say, the figures of the European Commission are not substantiated, not verifiable and not transparent, that is a serious fact. If, in fact, in the context of budgetary supervision, of a budgetary diktat of the European Commission on our public finances, we have neither the right to see nor the right to an explanation, that there is no clarity or transparency, it is, from a democratic point of view, serious and it raises essential questions. I cannot let go of your remarks saying that these figures should be taken in hindsight and that they are figures like the others. No! These figures may lead us to be punished; they are not anodized at all. I don't understand your attitude. You either acknowledge that these figures are not supported and acknowledge that there is a real democratic problem in the way in which Europe controls our finances, or you come back to your remarks and tell us that just now you did not tell the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip203x.u136	Are there any other colleagues asking for a reply? No? Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now suspend the sitting in order to do a reset. I propose that we resume the sitting around 8 p.m. We will then start with the section on Energy and the Environment. As Minister Marghem is here, we will start with the Energy component. Then will come the turn of Ministers Peeters and Ducrame. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Wednesday, December 13, 2017 at 20.00 hours. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 13 December 2017 at 8 p.m.
