ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u1	The Minister has informed us that he has to leave at 5:15 p.m. We shall then end our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u2	Mr President, Minister, these questions, from me and from other Members of this House, about the number of fatalities, are being asked because last year we noticed that 91 passenger, freight and work trains passed a red signal on the main tracks. This is one less than in 2015, but 2015 was also the year with the highest number of signal collisions. I was surprised that the figure is still so high, although of course I do know that there is an improved measurement compared to the past. Many investments have been made in recent years. However, it is noted that there were slightly more passenger trains through the red signal, namely 50 in 2016 compared to 47 in 2015, and that more trains stopped at a dangerous point, namely 42 compared to 40. That is also in the written record of my question. The risk associated with passing the red signal is known, think of Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse. Mr. Secretary, can you clarify the number of signs of collisions? According to our newspapers, there were 42 critical signal collisions in 2016. Was there TBL1+ everywhere on these lines? What more can we do to counter this rising trend? What about the roll-out of the ETCS? I have asked a specific question about the use of a mobile phone, as we have written one specific recommendation on this in the Buizingen Committee. Is it controlled, campaigned and so on? I also have a question which I have asked several times, including your predecessors, about the form to be filled in in the event of irregularities. According to my records, that would still take 15 minutes. In previous questions, it has always been said that this could be simplified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat all the figures quoted by Mr Geerts. It is true that the number of traffic accidents caused by passenger trains has increased in the last year. On the other hand, freight trains improved slightly, where the number of traffic accidents decreased. However, the figures remain unconfirming because after the fall in 2013, the number of traffic accidents peaked again in 2015 and the 2016 figures remain at the same level. The increase in the number of trains stopping at high-risk locations is also not stopped for the time being. Mr Geerts already referred to the last railway accident. We must be concerned about this. Hence the following questions. The freight trains are doing remarkably better than the passenger trains. What is the difference, Minister? Is this only the result of increased vigilance campaigns? If yes, is Infrabel planning similar campaigns to sensitise drivers of passenger trains? For years, the number of signal collisions has been very high. The current measures do not appear to be sufficiently effective at the present time. What additional measures does Infrabel plan to bring about a reversal? Finally, how many signal collisions did a safety system have to intervene in? Can you also tell us in how many cases TBL1+ or ETCS was present?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u4	Minister, I would also like to ask a number of additional questions myself. My fellow Members have already given a number of figures which we have read in the media. In a reaction, Infrabel pointed out that human errors, such as fatigue and distraction on the train driver, are the main causes of the signal collisions. The company announces an improvement in the working environment, for example with the installation of an automated system that would allow a train driver to more easily reach the signal house personnel concerned via GSM-R. This system would become operational this year. I would have liked some clarification on this. I would also refer to a reply from your predecessor in this committee, announcing that SNCB, together with Infrabel, was working on the preparation of an update of the action plan on Sein collisions for the period 2016-2020. A critical performance indicator, a KPI, would also be developed that could be included in management contracts. What is the state of play in updating this action plan? Has a KPI already been developed that can be included in the upcoming management contracts? How many signal collisions was there a safety system and what system was involved? Did the safety systems work properly in these situations? Dissipation is an important cause. Is that what's under surveillance? Mr Geerts already referred to the use of mobile phones. Is this being sanctioned? How many sanctions have already been imposed for, for example, using a mobile phone while driving? Fatigue may be due to heavy and irregular series that drivers have to take on. Are there any steps taken to accompany train drivers in this? Are steps also being taken to make the series more regular, in such a way that the exchanges are not as brutal as they sometimes are at present? What is the state of play on the planned roll-out of the ECTS for SNCB and Infrabel respectively? Is the planned planning still being made? Infrabel talks about an automated system via GSM-R for better communication. Could you give us a little more explanation? Is the GSM-R network sufficiently powerful throughout our country to run additional systems? Is the coverage over the entire rail network complete enough? Is it sufficiently protected against external attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every day, on average, 3,600 passenger trains and 400 freight trains run on the main tracks of the Belgian railway network. Of an annual total of approximately 1,300,000 trains and approximately 10,200 active signals, 91 trains exceeded one red signal in 2016, one less than in 2015. This is therefore more or less a stabilisation compared to 2015. These results must reinforce the willingness of railway undertakings and Infrabel to implement the ETCS safety system as soon as possible and to take additional measures to reduce the number of signal overruns. Out of 91 signal exceedances, there are 42 signal exceedances with the first hazardous potential point reached. This is not necessarily the critical case. Of these 42 cases, 23 signals were equipped with TBL1+, while the remainder were mostly small stop signals for which the risk is much lower, with the maximum allowable speed being 40 km/h. For TBL1+, SNCB reports 36 cases of signal exceedances after TBL1+ intervention. On the one hand, in accordance with the planned programme, the implementation of TBL1+ was finalised on the Belgian network in 2015. TBL1+ allows the automatic braking of any train passing a red signal or approaching a closed signal at a speed greater than 40 km/h at 300 metres from the signal. If the first potentially dangerous point is reached, the speed is therefore significantly reduced. On the other hand, ETCS remains the guarantee of the highest level of rail traffic safety. To date, 24% of the main tracks, or 1,540 km, are equipped with ETCS or equivalent. This device constantly controls the speed of the train, takes precedence over the driver in the event of overspeed or inappropriate behaviour and causes emergency braking if necessary. In the case of rolling stock, the ETCS is activated on 31% of the traction equipment as at 21 November 2016. The entire rolling stock should be equipped by 2023. The implementation of both TBL1+ and ETCS is part of the joint masterplan of Infrabel and SNCB. The factors behind signal exceedances are diverse. The main causes are human factors such as distraction or poor assessment of the situation on the part of the driver or agent in the signalling booth. A significant decrease in the number of signal exceedances observed for freight trains was recorded. Passenger trains and work trains have, on the contrary, experienced an increase in the number of signal overruns. SNCB reports that a large part of the signal collisions in 2016 were caused by professional categories that are not control staff, such as technicians in the workshops and rangers in the bundles. In addition, in the location (...) carriages accounted for 13 per cent of the signal collisions. The reason for this is a redeployment in the way these sites operate. Infrabel says that the decrease in freight trains cannot be attributed to a single awareness campaign. However, in 2016, Infrabel carried out an awareness-raising campaign at its destination and in collaboration with railway operators active in Belgium. Information days, meetings and simulator exercises also help to further improve communication between drivers, agents in the signal booth and personnel in the field. It is planned to continue raising awareness in the same way in 2017. SNCB has put in place a plan to combat signal overruns, the most important of which are listed in Annex I. The action plans for the prevention of signal collisions by Infrabel and SNCB are updated on a regular basis on the basis of the nature of the signal collisions, and the additional possibilities of TBL1+NG (new generation) are also studied. This improved TBL1+ version will support approaching a closed stop signal with a controlled brake curve. SNCB also stresses that the improper use of multimedia equipment while driving is clearly regulated and that infringements are sanctioned. The instruction in this field is repeated regularly. As regards reporting irregularities to the infrastructure, SNCB informs me that this is done in real time to the regulator via form E360. This telephone procedure takes about five to ten minutes. The claim that the E360 procedure would discourage drivers from reporting irregularities can neither confirm nor deny that this is the responsibility and safety management system of the infrastructure user. In Annex 2 you will find more detailed information on the current procedure for reporting irregularities to the infrastructure and how this procedure is described in the national security regulations VVESI. Infrabel informs me that as far as the GSM-R network is concerned, it covers all the passenger lines of the Infrabel network and the main lines of the network. In addition, it is protected against hacking and is isolated from the Internet. Unlike the radio-analogue network, these communications are encrypted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u6	Minister, I will look at the annexes. I absolutely agree that, taking into account the number of kilometres and the number of trains, the train is a very safe means of transport. However, we have to ask these questions, because a lot of money has been invested in and a lot of effort has been made for security. That is why this issue must be kept under constant review.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u7	Minister, you referred to a number of annexes. We will look at them in peace. I agree with Mr Geerts, in that it is not true that it is terribly unsafe on the track, but that the continued exercise, follow-up and action plans to which you refer absolutely deserve attention. This morning I paid a very interesting visit to the people of Infrabel, where we were once again given an explanation of the safety systems. We have also discussed in detail the ERTMS implementation, which is on the way and which will also help us to move forward in this context. However, the deadline 2022-2023 will not be met, including through procedures of companies competing in the award and outsourcing process. These are matters that neither you nor Infrabel control. We have to live with that, but it means that the problem will not be resolved tomorrow and the roll-out of ETCS will take longer than expected. In the meantime, we must continue to give priority to the problem of emergency traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u8	Minister, I agree with the replies of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u9	The annexes have now been sent to the authors by e-mail from the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u10	Mr President, Minister, you will have already seen it in traffic, there are people who are lighting themselves up by lighting LEDs. We see mainly in student cities that LED lighting is installed on the person himself, on the backpack or somewhere else. Putting himself more in the spotlight in dark times might not be bad. Of course, Minister, I wonder whether or not this can and cannot be done. Is LED lighting in all colours and at different frequencies, constantly on or flickering, actually allowed in traffic, in that the condition is that it is attached to the person and not on the vehicle? Can we do that? Are there any exceptions to that? Is that not allowed in certain cases? Are there certain categories of road users excluded from the use of such LED lighting? When we see what variations are possible, are certain colours excluded? Is there regulation on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u11	... there are no obligations in the traffic rules with regard to the use of lamps. This has the effect of allowing them to use all the colours of the rainbow to make themselves more visible in traffic. For cyclists, the situation is different. According to the current traffic regulations, it is prohibited for cyclists to use lights other than those provided for in the traffic regulations themselves, namely in front of a white light and in the back of a red light. These lamps may be fitted both on the person and on the bicycle. As a result, additional LED lights are not permitted according to a strict reading of the traffic regulations. However, because these additional lights improve visibility and therefore also the safety of weak road users, this is currently tolerated. Provided, of course, that the mandatory lighting is also used. This point has already been addressed in the framework of the Road Code Review Working Group. The recommendations included that drivers of bicycles should be allowed to use lateral signalling devices in addition. In this way, additional LED lighting in a colour of your choice could be used in a legal way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u12	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister. It will reassure many cyclists, especially students, that lighting is tolerated in all colors of the rainbow, as long as safety is pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u13	Minister, we have already discussed the introduction of variable speeds here, as has already happened in other countries. The study report would be available at the end of 2016. I think we're all waiting for the results of that study. My questions on this are as follows. Are you on the same line as your predecessor in terms of dynamic traffic management? Do you have more information about the results and findings of that study? Do you have a plan in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u14	The placing of dynamic signaling is a competence of the road managers. For motorways, these are the Regions. Even though it is not my competence, I am very much in favour of dynamic traffic management, all the more so because it can be embedded in a smart traffic environment, using numerous ITS applications.............................................................................................................................................................................. Dynamic traffic management allows to respond to the real situation on roads, which improves road safety and mobility. The results of the BIVV study on the impact of variable speeds on motorways on mobility, road safety and the environment are not yet available. The question of whether increasing the maximum speed on motorways is an option will only be answered in a well-founded way once the examination of the BIVV has been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u15	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u16	Minister, Infrabel is launching a pilot project with flash cameras at railway crossings. The aim of this project is to facilitate the identification of road users crossing a closed road. That's supposed to increase security. Could you explain the pilot project a little more? How long will the pilot project take? When are the first results expected? Why was the specific location chosen in Oudegem? Is it intended to equip other considerations with flash cameras in the future? How does the installation of flash cameras relate to considering the objective of Infrabel to eliminate as much consideration as possible? What is the status of this latest project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u17	Mr. Minister, Infrabel communicated that 45 accidents occurred in 2016, leaving four people dead and eight people injured. Yesterday, unfortunately, another accident occurred in my area on a road crossing, in which a 53-year-old woman died. These accidents are still very common. Infrabel also reported that 45 accidents were considered in 2015, with 11 deaths. The number of wounded quadrupled to eight in the last year. These accidents also cause delays on the track. That is a first point with regard to accident figures. Secondly, as my colleague has already said, a pilot project with speed cameras is starting to consider it. The first cameras to record license plates to consider may already be installed in Dendermonde. Anyone who ignores the red lights on a railroad and is flashed risks a fine of 220 to 2 750 euros and a driving ban of at least eight days. In the meantime, further work is being carried out on the elimination of dangerous rail considerations. Finally, at the end of 2015, your predecessor replied to my written question on this theme that Infrabel had decided to install trip mats at the level of the consideration located at a station or an unguarded stop point where frequent use is made of the road to reach the platforms faster. In 2014, two pilot projects were carried out, one on the way to the Wavre station and one on the way to Wevelgem station. In 2015, three additional considerations would be fitted with trip mats, in particular Viane-Moerbeke, Sint-Agatha-Berchem and Dinant. It would be the intention of Infrabel to finally consider 70 trip mats, with an estimated cost of EUR 840 000. I have four questions in this regard. Firstly, can you outline the evolution in the number of accidents at railway crossings over the last five years, indicating the number of deaths and injuries and possibly the delay that has been caused? Are there any critical areas where more accidents occur structurally? Secondly, what has already been decided, or is planned, for cameras? At what locations? What's the budget? What's the timing? Thirdly, can you outline the evolution of the number of people in the last five years consider? How many have been abolished during that period? Can you report the locations? Fourthly, with regard to the stubble mats, how many of these are already equipped? What is the planning for this year and the coming years? Were the results of these trip measures already measured in the case of accidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u18	Abolishing consideration remains a priority and is the best measure to increase safety in this area. Since the creation of Infrabel in 2005, more than 300 considerations have been abolished. In 2016, 22 considerations were abolished. In 2017, Infrabel provides for the abolition of 21 considera tions, nine of which are in Wallonia and 12 in Flanders. The average cost of abolishing a highway varies around 1.2 million euros. As far as the pilot project on flash cameras is concerned, this is confidential. In the interest of the success of the pilot project, it is not possible to communicate on this at present. I can only say that the project is still in a premature phase. It will certainly be a few weeks before the cameras will be operational. The crossing in Oudergem is a hotspot and is therefore a suitable location for testing a pilot project in order to achieve even better safety. As far as the presence of trip mats is concerned, until 1 January 2017, five consideration panels were equipped with anti-trespass panels, in Waver, Veurne, Wevelgem, Vine-Moerbeek and Lessen. In 2017 it is planned that 14 reflections will be equipped with anti-trespass panels. In total, Infrabel has drawn up a list of 70 plans for the construction of anti-trespass panels. The planning for the equipment of that consideration is over several years. In 2017, the efficiency of the anti-trespass panels was evaluated for three months after its installation in Waver. Infrabel has been able to determine a reduction of 98 % in cases of rail running through the train to the platform of the station. I will give you all the required figures in an annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The plan for the abolition of the consideration remains a priority. I think it's a good thing. In the meantime, this seems to be a useful project, but you cannot explain it today. Let us hope that the presence of cameras is evaluated as positive. This could prevent a number of people from doing so, given the heavy penalties imposed on them. That will also lead to less delay. I can also imagine that the Infrabel will cost less court fees if there are fewer discussions and court cases about the responsibility of liability in the event of rail transgression.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. As regards the abolition of consideration, I have noted that 21 are on the agenda for this year. The average cost of 1.2 million euros is quite considerable. However, I believe that abolishing is the most effective way of preventing such terrible accidents. I therefore hope that these 21 can be realised at the price you mentioned. In connection with the trip mats, I thank you for the information. The efficiency was indeed measured in Waver and it produced a result of 98 % less track runs. Here too, I believe that we need to continue on the road and implement the priority measures this year. Together with you, I hope that such accidents can be greatly reduced. Yesterday, in my area, there was another death in an accident on a road.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u21	Every morning, Minister, I see cars parking in the too small parking lot of the Groenendaal station on the 161 Ottignies-Brussels line. Every morning I see many more cars that pass the parking lot because it is full and continue to the ring or via Bosvoorde find their way in the Brussels Region. I am glad that a solution has been found and you have already answered a question from me in order to have more trains running on that line in the long run. However, these trains will not be full until there are a lot of passengers. Those passengers should also be able to park their cars around all stations, including in Groenendaal. In this context, we as Hoeilaart Municipal Council have been actively working for years to bring all the actors around the table that are needed to set up a parking project. These are SNCB, ANB, AWV/MOW, TEC, De Lijn and also the municipality. That is a lot of actors, and you can see that here with me. SNCB is the poor student of the class here. For more than a year now, the company has not been able to make a very simple decision, namely: is SNCB going to invest in such parking at the station or not? When I read the policy statement you gave in committee last year, the answer is very simple: yes, we need to invest in it. After all, you are also in favour of large car parks around those GEN stations. At the end of 2015, I even asked a question to buy the land of SNCB as a municipality. This was also not a positive response from SNCB. The excuse I keep hearing is the absence of an approved multi-annual investment plan, a MIP. I received that reply again by e-mail on 20 January 2017. Mr Minister, I find it incredible that an organisation such as SNCB cannot present an investment plan giving priority to parking around GEN stations. SNCB is losing a lot of passengers because of this. The turnover is also lower than what could be achieved and the image is famed by the lack of investment in those parkings. I just have one question. Will SNCB invest in a large parking lot at the Groenendaal station on line 161? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u22	SNCB lets me know that she gave you an answer on 20 January. SNCB indeed included the parking project at the Groenendaal station in its list of proposed investments. The project is scheduled for 2019-2020 in its version. The investment cell will give us a ruling on this. For part of the budget to be spent, the Regions will also be able to put their priority forward within the investment cell. SNCB is involved in the project concerning the cooperation agreement on the Groenendaal railway station environment. Pending clarity on the investment plan, SNCB states that it is still willing to participate in the announced working groups. SNCB informs me that it wishes to keep its parking areas at its stations as much as possible. If the project for parking at the Groenendaal station is not finally approved, alternative solutions can be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I am of course very happy to hear that the implementation is planned in 2019-2020, subject of course to the approval of the investment plan and the confirmation of the investment cell. I myself took the initiative last week to bring all parties around the table at the town hall in Hoeilaart on Friday 24 February. The invitations are on their way. I really hope to get a basic agreement from all the parties to build that much-needed parking. Thank you for your explanation and for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u24	On February 2, 2016, on the front page of De Standaard, the tip of trains was historically high. In 2015, 90.9 % of trains managed to be late up to 5 minutes and 59 seconds. Reference was made at that time to the introduction of the new transport plan, with more reliable equipment and awareness actions for staff to allow trains to leave on time at the departure station. The figures were explained the day before in our Chambers Committee by the CEOs of SNCB and Infrabel. The news from early January of this year was less rosy. The punctuality had dropped again below 90 %. All over 2016, 89.2 % of trains drove on time or with a delay of less than six minutes. According to NBMS and Infrabel, delays are due, among other things, to delays by third parties, notably trackers, bomb notifications or police interventions. The delays by the company itself, such as power failures, would have remained stable over the past year. In 2013 we also discussed the punctuality in our committee. On 6 November 2013, the punctuality managers provided a comprehensive explanation of the ongoing actions and actions in the short and medium term. A pain in the event of delays remains the communication to the passengers. I have the following questions: Can you give a similar, albeit more concise, explanation of last year's punctuality figures, and more specifically about the causes of the lesser results? Can you make a brief evaluation of the measures taken since 2013? Do you recognise that communication with the traveller can be much better in the event of delays? If so, which initiatives have already been taken and which are you planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u25	Minister, I agree with Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's questions. The most important question is whether the 2013 Action Plan Punctuality deserves an update. It is regrettable to note that after the improvement until the beginning of 2016 at the beginning of 2016, we were at the level of 2006, the best level for ten years is again a decline and that the situation is again that of a few years ago. I hope it can be corrected quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u26	Mr President, I will answer more questions than I have just asked myself, because some of the authors are absent. In 2016, the punctuality of trains was 89.2%. Although it is lower than in 2015, which, with a rate of 90.9%, was an exceptionally good year, it is clear that the year 2016 is the second best result in the last eight years. In fact, the figures of punctuality on the network for the period 2009-2016 are as follows: 2009, 88.9%; 2010, 87.5%; 2011, 87 %; 2012, 87.2%; 2013, 85.6%; 2014, 88.2%; 2015, 90.9%; and finally 2016, 89.2%. While SNCB and Infrabel are working on internal causes that affect punctuality and result from both infrastructure and hardware incidents, they do not have all the information, as the security environment and increasing third-party causes do not make it easier for them to do so. As regards these internal causes, since 2013, the two companies have endeavoured to reduce the number of infrastructure incidents and damage to rolling stock, to plan as best as possible the work intended to reduce the impact on punctuality and to be more rigorous in the first departures of trains. In January 2017, Infrabel and SNCB, on my initiative, identified line managers. They were instructed to follow up on the punctuality problems and to make concrete proposals. In this connection, I refer to the answer I have given to oral question No. 16390. As regards the completion of the connections, a maximum waiting time shall be allocated per train at the connecting stations and shall be determined by common agreement between SNCB and Infrabel. Its allocation and length depend on the type of train and the disruptions that the waiting may cause, for example, depending on the use of the line and the alternatives in case of missed connections. An additional waiting period pilot project is underway at Ciney, Marloie, Libramont and Mons stations. A monthly evaluation is planned. As far as the last correspondence of the day is concerned, it is always insured, even if it involves a Taxibus or a taxi if the connecting train cannot wait any longer. The external elements impacting punctuality, such as bomb alerts, the phenomenon of intruding on the tracks (the trespassing) and serious incidents (criminality), have evolved exponentially. Thus, these elements increased by 50% when compared to the first 10 months of 2015 with those of 2016. SNCB and Infrabel strive to reduce the impact of these third-party incidents, including personal accidents, intrusions and cable thefts. Strike days also severely penalized traffic in 2016 and blew up the number of trains removed: 8,419 trains were abolished for the announced strikes and 10,758 trains were abolished for the unannounced strikes. This makes a total of around 22,000 trains abolished in 2016 for strikes on a total of 38,000 trains abolished. In terms of punctuality, clear targets for improving punctuality will be sought in line with the 2014 and 2015 improvement. With regard to communication in the event of delays, the SNCB Management Committee approved on 21 November 2016 the Information-Travellers Strategy 2016-2020, covering in particular better communication between the operational services concerned, an improvement in the quality of the content of the announcements, an adaptation of the technical means to make it more efficient and an awareness of the importance of the quality of the information to be provided to travellers. Finally, the gross punctuality for January, measured at the end of January, was significantly increased compared to November and December 2016, where punctuality was deteriorating. The year 2017 has thus begun under the best auspices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u28	I agree with those words of thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u29	Minister, according to this government's strategic vision on rail, it was intended to merge TUC RAIL and Eurostation into one company. This fits in with a certain logic, in particular the reduction of the number of subsidiaries. It would also bring together the knowledge of both companies. It would also be a good start for Eurostation, which has been plagued by all kinds of scandals in recent years. The construction of all railway infrastructure would also be delegated to TUC RAIL-Eurostation. Hence the following questions. How far does the government stand with the integration of TUC RAIL and Eurostation into a single subsidiary? When will the construction of all railway infrastructure be delegated to TUC RAIL? I would also like to refer to our motion for a resolution, which aims to transfer the stations to the infrastructure manager Infrabel. In our view, this would improve the simplicity, logic and good management of the stations. I therefore have a third question, Minister. What is your view on transferring the stations to Infrabel? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u30	Dear colleague, on 1 January 2014, the date of the restructuring of the railways and the transfer of branches from the former SNCB Holding to Infrabel, Infrabel had 23 subsidiaries, 15 of which were part of the consolidation perimeter. Today, Infrabel has 17 subsidiaries, 11 of which belong to the consolidation perimeter. This means a reduction of 26% compared to the situation on 1 January 2014. Infrabel has the ambition to further simplify the organisation of the Infrabel group and make it as transparent and efficient as possible. Infrabel approved, among other things, at the beginning of this year, the merger between Ixilio and TUC RAIL. The activities of TUC RAIL and Eurostation are very different. The activities of TUC RAIL are linked to the activity of the infrastructure manager, while those of Eurostation are linked to the passenger reception activities. This separation is in line with the activities of their respective parent company. Even if a merger cannot be ruled out in the long term, such a merger would entail an additional obligation of cooperation between SNCB and Infrabel at this stage. I do not wish to do so as long as cooperation between the two companies is not improved in view of their basic activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u31	Mr President, Minister, it is a good thing that the number of subsidiaries is reduced. This is also in line with the current government's strategic vision. You did not answer my question about that phrase in the strategic plan, in particular about delegation of the authority of all railway infrastructure to TUC RAIL. I will therefore continue to follow up on that dossier and, if necessary, submit any further questions. After all, I referred to our view on this in my question. It is very clear and was also partly included in the strategic vision. That vision has been approved by the government, and we will see to it that it is implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u32	Minister, the Hasselt Stations environment was established in 2003. Both the city of Hasselt are represented through the Autonomous Community and SNCB via the Euro Immo Star. In 2004 and 2005, the Hasselt Stations environment and Eurostation concluded a study contract for building construction, underground parking and archives in the vicinity of Hasselt station. There was also cooperation around the construction of the Palace of Justice. I have some questions. Following what projects have Eurostation or one of its subsidiaries in the past cooperated with the Hasselt Stations environment? What legal form did this cooperation take? Were there reports of the joint meetings of Eurostation or one of its subsidiaries and the Hasselt Stations environment? Is it possible to receive a copy of that? Finally, the Hasselt Stations environment would be in liquidation, is that correct? Since when, should this be the case and what is the reason for the liquidation? What are the consequences of this on cooperation with Eurostation and what is the state of settlement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u33	SNCB informs me that the Hasselt Stations environment was established on 10 December 2003 and aims to coordinate developments in the Hasselt station environment and surrounding areas. This is done, among other things, by the process management of the total area development, the elaboration of a final concept for the concrete realization of the construction projects, the management and follow-up of the master plan and the coordination of the projects. The two shareholders are 50% of the Autonomous Community and 50% of the Eurostation holding Euro Immo Star. Each year an annual report is drawn up which is part of the annual accounts. Those annual accounts shall be published. As these are private companies, no reports of meetings can be made available. The Hasselt Stations environment is not in liquidation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u34	Can you repeat that last one? I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u35	The public limited company Hasselt Stationsenvironment is not in liquidation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u36	She's not in liquidation, okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u37	Questions Nos 16231, 16232, 16233, 16234 and 16235 by Mr Van Hecke lapsed. These were converted written questions to which Mr Van Hecke has meanwhile received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u38	Mr Minister, my question is about the Parkweg Bridge in Heverlee. At the end of April, early May 2016, Infrabel's investigation concluded that the so-called Parkweg Bridge in Heverlee was irreparably damaged and that the instability problems were such that it was irresponsible to keep the bridge open even longer. Infrabel then announced that it would carry out a study to build a new bridge. That study should be completed by the end of the year. Meanwhile, work would be done on a preliminary construction that would allow pedestrians and cyclists to move towards Parkabbey of Heverlee. Mr. Minister, Leuven hikers and cyclists expressed their displeasure some time ago about the fact that there is no longer any possibility of crossing directly from the Sportoasis in Leuven to the Park Abbey. However, this is an important road for cyclists and hikers. Passers have for a while followed the nadar gates with messages begging for a solution so that they can walk directly towards Parkabbij. My questions to you are the following. What about the planned study on the construction of a new bridge at this location? Do you confirm that this study is on schedule? Will the planned completion of the study be maintained by the end of 2017? It was communicated that there would be a temporary construction pending study results. There isn't at the moment. What are the reasons for this? Will you work on a temporary construction to ensure this direct passage? What measures will you take? When will they be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u39	Infrabel lets me know that the study on the new bridge is being carried out. The planned timing is maintained. The study is conducted in close consultation with the city of Leuven and the Agency Onroerend Erfgoed. In reply to the oral question No. 14586 of 20 October 2016 was already informed that the construction of the temporary construction was being investigated. On the basis of this study, in consultation with the city of Leuven, it was decided not to provide for a temporary construction. The reasons for this are as follows. The taluds in that place are too steep and not stable enough to support a temporary bridge. If a temporary bridge is to be built, new foundations must be created to support it. This also requires a study as well as the preparation of a specifications and the completion of a tendering procedure. The time savings achieved are therefore very small. A new bridge is therefore immediately chosen. The bridge is located in a protected landscape, therefore the temporary bridge must be built in exactly the same location as the old bridge. The new bridge must also be built at the same location. This means that the temporary bridge must be removed when the construction of the new bridge starts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u40	Thank you for your answer. I understand that the works and the study are on schedule, but it's not worth building a temporary bridge. I will inform the city of Leuven in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u41	Mr Minister, my question concerns a follow-up to a question I put to your predecessor about ten months ago. During a committee meeting in April 2016, I informed the Minister about the state of the Leuven station, because the cleanliness at that time left to be desired. The Minister replied at the time that a number of calls for tenders were under way and that a number of work would be started soon. The Leuven station has been dealt with here and there over the past year, including lighting, but several faults continue to pop up. For example, the cleanliness is still not what it should be in some places and despite the investments made a few years ago, the station still does not have toilets in the station building. The toilets that are to be used for the time being are the boxes that are close to track 1. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. When is the completion of the current ongoing work at the Leuven station foreseen? What other work is planned for 2017? What are the budgets earmarked for this? At the time, the Minister stated that cleaning the canopies in the station was the subject of an ongoing window contract with the company ISS. What exactly are the modalities of that agreement? So how many cleaning times are provided for in that agreement and within what period, since this has still not happened? What is the cost of cleaning the canopies? Like last year, I am asking whether the drawing up of a systematic maintenance plan could be helpful here. Was that option investigated? If not, why not? If so, what were the conclusions and what concrete measures or proposals has this led to? Despite the large investments made a few years ago, there is no toilet in the buildings of the Leuven station. Are there plans or proposals to change that? How concrete are these plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u42	Ms Van Hoof, SNCB informs me that good news will start work in March 2017 for the construction of the final platform hardening on platforms 1A, B and C, 1D, 1, 2 and 3. The cost of this is about three million euros. Cleaning the canopies can only take place after the lifelines on the canopies are in accordance with current legislation. This is now the subject of a tendering procedure. The maintenance plan provides for an annual cleaning of the canopies. Work is currently under way around the signal house, including the establishment of a sanitary area for travellers. The start-up will be planned in spring 2017. At that time, the sanitary containers will be decommissioned and the construction of track C will be started.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Your communication about the progressing work on the different platforms and on the sanitary block in the signal house is good news. With regard to the cleaning of the canopies, we have to wait for the tender. At least today it doesn't seem taken care of. A lot of travellers talk to me about this for that reason. I therefore hope that this tender can be concluded quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament 16266 of myself is converted into a written question. Mr Geerts, under item 25 there are questions from you, combined with questions from Mr Cheron, who will come later, about 4 p.m. Are we waiting for Mr Cheron to deal with these questions? [[Assent]] Debates of the European Parliament 16284 of myself is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u45	Minister, I also follow the plan for fair competition in the transport sector in the other committees. A number of topics are the responsibility of your colleague, Mr De Backer or the Minister of Work. One of your powers is the action for more checks on vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes. We see more and more smaller vans on the road every day. This leads the sector to the observation that there was disloyal competition. Since the mileage tax, I even see vans with trailers. This makes it very difficult to implement a policy, including at municipal level. Vehicles below 3.5 tonnes shall not install a tachograph. They are not bound by the rules of driving and rest periods. There should also be no vocational training for drivers, as opposed to lorry drivers. I know that a number of competences in this area are European, but the Fair Competition Plan also includes control. How many checks have been carried out since the entry into force of the Fair Competition Plan in the transport sector on vans compared to the total number of checks to combat social dumping in the transport sector? How many infringements have been detected here? What is the Belgian position on extending the rules on driving and rest periods for vehicles below 3.5 tonnes? What is the Belgian position on extending the rules on professional competence for drivers of vehicles below 3.5 tonnes? How many vans were impersonated in 2014, 2015 and 2016 at the DIV? My feeling is that there might be an increase. I ask you this question because I can then continue the discussion on the basis of figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u46	Mr President, SNCB's draft multi-annual investment plan provides for a reception budget of around EUR 600 million for the projects...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u47	Minister, I think you are giving the answer to a wrong question. We are talking about item 28 of our agenda, which is Question No 28, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mr Geerts on action for vehicles over 3.5 tonnes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u48	Mr President, Mr Geerts, the plan of fair competition in the transport sector requires a distinction to be made between, on the one hand, regular checks which are not specifically aimed at social dumping but, on the other hand, compliance with administrative rules and road safety and, on the other hand, checks on social dumping. At the moment there is no such distinction. However, in the second half of 2017, adaptations of computer applications are envisaged to allow for the implementation and registration of such controls. It is therefore not possible to distinguish between the checks on social dumping for vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes and those of more than 3.5 tonnes. On 22 September 2016, a regular check was directed specifically at the vans, regardless of whether they were used for their own account or on behalf of third parties. 526 vehicles were checked, with 122 infringements detected. However, they did not necessarily have to deal with social dumping practices. In Belgium, the social partners supported the extension of the driving and rest periods to vehicles with a maximum authorised mass of less than 3.5 tonnes. Since it is a European regulation, Belgium has asked the European Commission to examine the feasibility of introducing such a measure. A Belgian position was also brought to the attention of several Member States on the same road policy and could therefore be more supportive of this in the context of the announced revision of the European road transport package. We also need a change in European legislation for the professional skills of drivers for vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes. This could be discussed in the various European fora and working groups to draw up and advise on the road transport package. The required figures for the registration of vans are provided in an attached table. (A member of the Minister's staff will present the table to Mr Geerts)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u49	I ask this question because I saw in a communication from your colleague De Backer that this was one of the elements of the plan that had been implemented. It is now clear that a number of measures still need to be taken on the ground. I think it is important for you to state clearly that the Belgian Government's position is to seek supporters at European level. After all, I think it is important that you take the lead in this. I have heard that the Commissioner responsible, a Bulgarian, has also taken action, because it is now also aware that there is an effective problem of keeping our transport sector viable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u50	Mr President, Minister, this is a very short question. The investment plans of SNCB and Infrabel would be complete and I would like an overview of which projects will or will not be implemented. My question is specifically about station projects and stops. How much budget goes to station projects and stops? Which stations will be addressed? What is the current position with regard to the roll-out of works? What is the budgetary estimate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u51	Mr President, Mr Geerts, the proposed multiannual investment plan of SNCB provides for a reception budget of around 600 million for projects which are considered indispensable. However, some of these investments also require investment by Infrabel. A meeting was held in January to coordinate the draft multi-annual investment plan of SNCB and Infrabel. However, the Infrabel Board has so far approved neither the draft business plan nor the multi-annual investment plan, which means that no new element may be communicated today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I can only take note of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u53	Mr Geert, like you, we are waiting for Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament 16360 of myself is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u55	Mr Minister, since 1 October 2016, there has been a new regulation for electric bicycles that reach 45 kilometres per hour. Such bicycles are treated as mopeds category B and should therefore bear a registration plate and be registered with the Registration Service Vehicles. We see that the sale of such bicycles increases exponentially, which is good, because more people travel by bicycle, even over longer distances. However, some problems remain to be resolved. In particular, there are problems with the necessary certificates for electric bicycles, before the owners are allowed to drive them around. The PVG/WVTA attestations are missing for some bicycles. The owners of these bicycles are sent to the wall for regulation of the cabinet. Nowhere is there any clarity, nowhere do they get an answer to the question of how they can put the registration in order. Minister, how does the procedure for registering or attempting to register a fast electric bicycle go without such a certificate? Where exactly and for what reason is this regularization going wrong? Do you have data on the number of non-registered fast bicycles, possibly per region or per province? How many number plates have already been issued for fast electric bicycles? Will you look again at the legal framework, as we already see that this is going wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u56	Minister, I agree with the questions put by Mr Dumery. It is mainly about the registration of the speed pedals purchased before March 2014. This appears to be difficult, as these bicycles do not usually have a European conformity certificate, a COC, which is necessary to register them. If neither the seller nor the importer nor the manufacturer can deliver the COC certificate, then the owner has a problem, because then he cannot register his speed pedal or apply for a license plate. With the services, the question of the right legal situation for the person concerned cannot be answered in such cases. It seems to me that clarity is in order. Although the regularisation period has been extended until the end of this year, this does not actually offer a solution for that particular target group. Mr President, are you aware of these specific problems, although they are important to the owners? What is the solution for the registration of speedpedelecs, purchased before March 2014, without that certificate? What steps should be taken by the owners concerned to ensure that legislation is in place? How is it ensured that these bicycles comply with all relevant technical and administrative provisions? Are there actual consultations between the FPS Mobility and the regional accreditation bodies? Is there any solution yet? What measures should be taken? What's the timing? Will there be any further consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u57	I would first like to make a small nuance in the sense that fast electric bicycles are not equivalent to moped class B, but form a separate class, in particular speed pedal, in accordance with Article 2 (17) of the Road Code. The speed pedals, purchased before March 2014, can be registered with the DIV. It is not the purchase date that plays a blocking role in the registration of a minority of speed pedals, but the fact that the European equivalence certificate, similar to the COC, is missing, or that the vehicle has never been Homologized. However, this is one of the conditions for registration, as is the case for all motor vehicles. For a normal registration of a fast electric bicycle, therefore, an approval of the vehicle is required. The type approval of the fast electric bicycle shall be demonstrated by means of an approval document or an attestation of conformity. For a speed pedal without a COC or where the COC is lost, it is sufficient to ask the seller or the manufacturer for this document. During the regularisation period until 11 December 2017, the DIV shall also accept a certificate of voluntary decommissioning of a certificate of conformity of mopeds and light quadricycles provided by the police, provided that the vehicle has been Homologised. The speed pedelec that was never homologized at European level must first be homologized nationally before registering it. This national accreditation can be provided by one of the three Regions which is competent for the matter under the sixth state reform. The problem is that certain fast electric bicycles, which should nevertheless be subject to approval, are not homologized but still sold. They may pose a danger because they have not been demonstrated to comply with all applicable technical requirements. You will understand that it is not responsible to register these bicycles. I do not have figures on the number of unregistered fast electric bicycles. In the table I will give you, you will find the number of entries per province and per region for speedpedelecs. In my view, the current rules on tenders should not be changed. Indeed, it is important that these fast electric bicycles comply with the prescribed technical requirements, i.e. have been Homologised before they can be registered. I do understand the frustration of the citizen who wants to register his fast electric bike, but who comes up against a problem, a problem which is more likely to arise when his vehicle is being type-approved or registered. Contacts have already been established with the regions concerned to amend the existing rules on the general rules governing the technical requirements to be met by mopeds, motorcycles and their trailers. This regulation should be amended in the course of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for explaining this procedure. I think it would be useful for everyone to know what should be done in normal circumstances. You say that a minority of citizens are frustrated because they own a bike that may not be able to be gayed. That is right: there are reasons why there should be homology and why there is a European attestation of conformity. I'm curious to see what minimum number is involved. If there are many, then we will have to think about a solution. Eventually that bike was sold here with us at some point. Your clarity will help a lot of people on the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u59	I would like to endorse these words, which make some clear about the procedure. I think we have a problem with early adopters, people who are quick to use a new technique before a new regulation exists. The bikes have also evolved technically. The regulation focuses more on the new techniques and new ways of propulsion. As a result, the early adopters are currently in a grey zone. In my view, it is good to look, together with the regional accreditation services, at a solution for those who were present early, invested heavily and hoped to be able to drive around with it for a number of years, without, therefore, driving illegally. I'm counting on us to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u60	There is also a problem of insurance for electric bicycles without approval. We need to ask the insurance companies what happens in the event of an accident. Without registration or approval, this is an unclear fact for the drivers of such a bicycle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u61	I would suggest that we discuss Mr Geerts' question and then return to Mr Flahaux's questions. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u62	Minister, a few months ago I asked you a question about the imminent shortage of train drivers and train drivers. On the Flemish side it would be 80 train drivers and 40 train guides. On 14 December you replied that 160 men and 19 women were trained as train drivers at SNCB. The recruitment campaign would be further intensified. Now I have looked at the recruitments in December 2016. Then SNCB welcomed 65 new employees, including 25 technicians, 16 professional staff, seven senior executives, six administrative staff, four movement staff, four university staff, two train escorts and a train driver. I asked that question because I found the low number in the last two, though very important, categories remarkable. How come only two train escorts and a train driver were recruited? We do see campaigns, but what policy is there to make these professions more attractive? How many Dutch-speaking train guides are in training and how many French-speaking? How many Dutch-speaking train drivers are in training and how many French-speaking? It also said that seven senior executives were recruited. What functions are they? Are these people replacing employees who are retiring or leaving the company or are they extending the executive segment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u63	Mr President, in view of the length of the selection procedure, three months have elapsed between the launch of the recruitment campaign and the recruitment itself. The effect of the intensification of the recruitment campaign was therefore not noticeable in December. In January, however, 72 train escorts and train drivers were recruited. SNCB will intensify and expand the recruitment campaign with a better focus on the benefits of the job. In addition, the effectiveness of the recruitment process will be increased. The relevant seniority in a previous job will be included in the remuneration package. There are currently 40 Dutch-speaking and 23 French-speaking train guides in training. For train drivers there are 53 Dutch speakers and 65 French speakers in training. SNCB informs me that no senior executive was recruited in December 2016. It wasn't seven senior executives, it was commercial servants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u64	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear that in January 2017 train drivers and train drivers were able to get to work effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u65	Mr President, first of all, I wish the minister a happy birthday, as he is now on his way. My two questions are related to Tubize. With more than 3,500 daily commuters and more than 400 people buying daily tickets, Tubize is an important train station on the Mons-Bruxelles axis, not only for the inhabitants of the municipality but also for commuters from nearby municipalities. As a result, many people of boring H will take the train to Tubize, closer to Brussels, where more trains stop, even if there are fewer trains than in Braine-le-Comte and where the city has increased the number of parking spaces, which are also non-paying, in order to lift the brake on parking at the station. The Tubize station is far from being advantaged - but it is true that it is not a singularity - with many delays or trains deleted. Today, SNCB management is considering closing the windows for economic reasons. Here, there is no question of closing the station but of adapting the offer of services to figures of commercial transactions downwards. Some argue that this decline in ticket purchases is a reason for the decline in services, which, like a vicious circle, are becoming less and less sought after. They also stress the need to maintain windows, everyone, especially the elderly, who do not have a smartphone permanently connected on the net. SNCB also announces that they will not close completely but will be open at specific times for some information. Minister, can you tell us how many tickets purchased from Tubize are made at the counter, online, and by automatic? Can you remind us of the minimum use of counters that allow SNCB not to be faced with an excessive cost of keeping them in business? Is the decrease in the use of counters due to a decline in the supply of services or does the decrease in the supply of services correspond to a decrease in the use of the physical sale of tickets? Can you inform us about the evolution of the missions that the shopkeepers will have to carry out within the company? Do you guarantee a satisfactory maintenance of the opening of the station and its counters, allowing the customers the least aware of the evolution of the technologies to carry a valid transport ticket at the Tubize station and, far beyond, at all the stations that are faced with changes in the purchasing practices of their customers, following the technological revolution of the new communication and exchange tools?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u66	Dear colleague, according to SNCB figures, the total sale at Tubize station is around 300 transactions per day on average. Between the end of 2014 and the end of 2016, the share of the window in these transactions decreased from 77% to 60%. During the same period, the share of automatons increased from 21 per cent to 38 per cent. The online sale of tickets with Tubize indicated as departure station has tripled but remains very limited. We've gone from 1 to 3 per cent. For closures carried out in 2015, the following criterion was applied by SNCB: the potential for activities, i.e. sales transactions, the commercial board and the non-commercial board. It may not be less than 40% of the actual occupancy time of a single daily weekly benefit. In other words, a maximum of 60% unoccupied time was tolerated for small stations with less than 5,000 travellers per day on weekdays. The decrease in the use of the window is linked to the expansion of the supply of distribution channels. The customer has a choice between several channels, from which he chooses the one that suits him best. In most of the opening hours changes, the benefit was only discontinued when the on-site shopkeeper retired. For the other cases, the counters will continue to operate at another station in the same office. SNCB has declared a moratorium until 2020 with regard to the complete closure of ticket office functions at railway stations. Each year, however, SNCB changes the opening hours of the windows if the volume of sales and the activity rate have decreased to such an extent that full service delivery is no longer warranted. Each adaptation proposal must be evaluated from the station's point of view, but also from a broader geographical perspective. In any case, the window remains accessible during the most frequent period. On the other hand, you know that I appreciate the method, not the one-on-one. I have therefore asked SNCB not to reduce the opening hours of the windows until I have implemented a concerted solution to ensure access to the waiting room during the hours of the window closure, which is a local exercise each time. There is therefore no longer a question of closing the windows or reducing their opening hours, as long as there are no solutions, both technological and outcomes, found at the local level, to avoid situations such as closed and heated waiting rooms while people freeze on the docks. This is not admissible, and SNCB is trying to find solutions, with electrical waste and local agreements, as has been done at three or four stations. I have asked that this strategy be followed and that a uniform approach be adopted throughout the country, even if the answers are more local in nature depending on the realities of each station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u67	I would like to thank you for your answer. Indeed, it absolutely reflects your structured and systematic character. You don't steal from the press and the media. I find this very positive. As far as the situation in Tubize is concerned, I believe that the local authorities themselves, since I had the opportunity to speak with a Tubize echevine who has just joined the Walloon Parliament, have expectations and an opening on this side. I also thank you for specifying that the hours chosen in the reduction of hours are peak hours, and that is important! Furthermore, in the context of our work, I would like to recall the proposal of one of the parties of the majority to ensure that possible ticket sales opportunities are created elsewhere. In the case of Tubize, it would not be impossible to think about it. We are next to the shopping street, a few meters away. Thank you for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u68	Minister, one more question about Tubize, we're gonna end up thinking that I'm going to transfer my business there. No, I'm not running in Walloon Brabant next time. I've already asked your predecessor, Jacqueline Galant, about the Braine-le-Comte escalators. I wanted to know when they would be repaired and I was told that the age of the latter – they were over 40 years old and came from Namur – did not allow to find, except to recover certain elements on identical escalators disassembled elsewhere, enough to restore them to function. In the meantime, people walk them up, with strollers, etc. It was also pointed out to me that, with the extension of the station wharfs expected to take place in the near future, new escalators to the new gauge resulting from the induced height changes would be installed. I think, minister, you'll confirm that. According to local elected officials of Tubize, the same situation is found in their station, whose general condition of the docks is not brilliant. Here, too, the much more recent escalators no longer operate, making access to people with reduced mobility difficult. These elected representatives told me not to be informed of a forthcoming enhancement of their wharfs, which, no doubt, would lead, as in Braine-le-Comte, to the installation of new escalators. Minister, can you inform us about future developments at the Tubize station and at the Braine-le-Comte station if there are any changes? When will the work be planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u69	Mr Flahaux, I will no doubt disappoint you, but it is not possible for SNCB to comment on the replacement of the escalators at the stations of Braine-le-Comte and Tubize. This will be possible as soon as there is a final multi-year plan for rail investments. The whole will be reviewed and repeated according to the emergencies. SNCB has submitted a draft investment plan that is not yet validated, as we do not yet have Infrabel's investment plan. As long as these plans have not been agreed between the two companies, I will not be able to tell you when or how this will be done. However, this seems to me to be one of the accessibility priorities at stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u70	Thank you, Minister. I like to know the truth and your style of answer. Since 2007, ministers, Ms Inge Vervotte, and then MM. Magnette and Labelle have made me blessed court water. I don't like it at all. I'd rather we say things clearly! I simply recall that we are talking a lot about the two RER lines to Nivelles and to Ottignies, but that the line to Tubize and Braine-le-Comte and the line to Enghien are also RER lines that do not require, moreover, much investment, simply some adaptations in particular of docks with escalators and elevators. I am attentive to your answer and hope that the dossier on this project will evolve. I would remind you that 3,500 passengers transit through the Tubize train station, compared with 5,300 passengers for the Braine-le-Comte train station. Between the two, there is the station of boring H'Hôneres which is on Braine-le-Comte and which has only a few hundred passengers. I agree with that, but this is already the case for these three stations, almost 10,000 travellers, which is not bad at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u71	Mr President, Minister, I will stay on line 96, which I know very well since I practice it on a daily basis, even if I am not the Madonna of Sleepings. Mr Minister, at the end of 2016, you expressed your willingness to restore the conditions of transport on line 96 linking the Mons region to Brussels and to appoint line managers to ensure that the operation of SNCB services is in line with its contractual commitments regarding correspondence and punctuality. Very impatient, because very anxious to see an effective service delivered to SNCB customers, I had asked you in early January to join the question of the capacity of trains in the various aspects of rail transport that they would have to observe. Minister, I would like to know if these line managers have been set up in the meantime. If not, when do you think they will be operational? If they are already designated, how many are they? What are their methods of action? Is there one on each train? Normally, this should not be the case. I guess it's about running the line from an office. How do they operate? How long will their mission be? Have they already made any findings? Have any responses, modifications, improvements already been made by SNCB and Infrabel to any malfunctions? How quickly can effective and sustainable responses be made to the inconveniences that led to your decision to set up these line managers? It's a very good decision you made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u72	Mr President, my colleague, although they took office at the beginning of February, the line managers appointed by SNCB and Infrabel's management started their analysis activities on the basis of January data. Each of these line managers has a single point of contact within the other company, in order to facilitate exchanges between the two companies. The mission of the line manager consists of four main points: to ensure strict monitoring of the punctuality of one or more lines which encounter a recurring punctuality problem; to analyse the punctuality of trains and the consequences of incidents; to identify concrete solutions and implement them quickly; to monitor the effectiveness and relevance of the measures taken jointly. The line manager is not a train manager. So there isn't one for every train. They don't intervene in real time. They are therefore not members of traffic management bodies. The duration of their mission is not limited. Their recommendations are implemented as their missions progress and are assessed on a regular basis. Contacts have already been established and analyses are under way. Based on the analyses, proposals for solutions are and will be developed in close collaboration between Infrabel and SNCB. I don't want to rely on a simple impression of the commuters, I want the objectified numbers. However, on the basis of a subjective analysis on the part of users, there has been a recognised improvement since the beginning of January. However, it would be better to have a confirmation by the figures. As I said, punctuality is improving. I hope that this will continue and that we will better understand what is happening on the lines that are problematic, such as the line 96 you are using. This line has covered the chronicle, following various positions, petitions or other means which have been the expression of a ras-le-bol of the users in relation to the uncertainty of the schedules, which I wish to combat with all the necessary and adequate measures in the company, knowing that the phenomena outside it are increasing in a worrying way. This was the case in 2016, with a 50% increase over 2015. Prevention measures will have to be carried out within this framework. We therefore await the recommendations of the line managers who support these phenomena.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u73	Minister, thank you for putting these line managers in place. I think they will play an important and useful role. Like you, I see that there are external elements. I personally experienced it on the line I used in a suicide on the way. Using the train every day, I can confirm an improvement in January and February. This is not an impression but a living situation. Of course, I don't use all the trains! However, a problem that I had discussed with Minister CD&V of Mobility in the years 2007-2009 is still relevant. This is the congestion of the Central Station, which is causing more and more delays, with the station benefiting from only six boarding docks. So I can confirm that, overall, compared to November 2016 – a little black month! – we have seen a marked improvement in the situation. Thank you for this work, which is also part of your systematic and objective vision of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u74	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I wish you a happy birthday. That said, the Saint-Gobain site currently undergoing conversion had an internal railway line of several kilometres, connected to the SNCB network and more particularly to its Walloon dorsal. Taking into account the loading dock along the Sambre, as well as access to the road and motorway network, this "trimodality" was necessarily an important asset for the industrial conversion of the site. In September 2015, lnfrabel, as manager of the railway system, had dismantled the junction between the internal track at the site and the Namur-Charleroi line through Auvelais (Sambreville). This loss of access to the rail network had at the time provoked reactions from several companies present in the region and wishing to settle on the site, since the rail service allows direct deliveries to be encouraged and thus to increase the economic attractiveness of these companies. Since then, despite several requests made to your predecessor, the situation has not changed. However, the restoration of these hundreds of metres of rail would have positive consequences for the continuation of the site's conversion and for companies that could make use of it for the benefit of their customers. The Saint-Gobain site can indeed be an example of successful industrial conversion in Wallonia if mobility is to the suit, especially since strategically its position at the crossroads of road, river and rail axes is quite remarkable. Minister, can you confirm that? If so, will this dossier soon be the subject of a favourable operational follow-up involving, inter alia, a meeting with the municipal authorities and the companies already present on the site
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u75	Ms Caprasse, the contract for the iron connection with SA Saint-Gobain Glass Benelux was terminated in March 2012 in full agreement with the company – and even at its request. Therefore, there is no longer any reason to maintain the Auvelais accessory installation. For the sake of good management, Infrabel decided to withdraw it. A new connection is always possible on the basis of an objective demand and a potential study in terms of rail traffic. As is always the case in such situations, Infrabel will respond to any such request and will professionally support the applicant companies as part of a site conversion project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u76	Minister, thank you. We will therefore see what needs to be done in the interests of businesses. Maybe I'll come back and ask you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u77	Minister, it has been months since the public toilets at Tournai station were available. According to the staff working at the station in Tournai, they have been vandalized several times, which seems to have led to their closure. If I fully understand that every incivious fact must make the necessary repairs, it appears that the definitive closure of the place is not a good solution. In order for the public toilets to be reopened, why not have a toilet cleaner, which is more commonly called "Madame pipi", present at the station of Tournai?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u78	SNCB informs me that having a toilet attendant can be done in two ways. The concession of the toilets through which SNCB enters into a contract with an operator via a call for applications. The toilets are then paid and the receipts cover all costs, including salary. This solution is only applicable for large stations ensuring sufficient use of the toilets. It is also possible to proceed by ensuring the presence of SNCB personnel or via a service contract. In this case, SNCB must cover staff costs without sufficient revenue to cover these costs. The operating cost is too high, in Tournai, to apply this solution, which is not applied almost anywhere. So, in practice, dear colleague, if someone at the local level wants to perform this function, there is no problem, but the management of the toilets at all stations is as in public places and within cities, it is a major difficulty that all public managers are confronted with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u79	Minister, you know I don't like your answer. In fact, I saw in the press that your office was complaining about the hours of the public toilet, but you should tell your office that at Tournai station, there are no more cabinets. It's not a matter of schedule since they're closed. That said, very honestly and without a bad word game, I can assure you that it's annoying, for the people who work there, for the people in the bookstore... I'm absolutely serious. Since you took office, I've never seen you in Tournai. Come and see the station. She's remarkable. It's just been renovated, it's a beautiful building. So we are in a surreal situation. It's the Dali exhibition, right now, in Tournai, I guess it's in this frame that you answered me. I will suggest a solution to SNCB: why not try to play with local actors, especially via CPAS, to engage, for example, an article 60. That's not what's going to hit SNCB's budget. For example, these toilets, which are also renovated, could be opened during rush hours. I hope I made you aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u80	I understand that the toilets have been renovated and vandalized several times.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u81	Yes, that was in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u82	I have been confronted with this in another job, in another job, from which I am a little far away today. I can tell you that no one vandalizes the toilet anymore, because the municipality has invested so that no one wants to vandalize the toilets at the station. There's money. When someone's caught in the act, it costs him a lot, because he's renovating all the toilets himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u83	You're going back to the town. As far as administrative sanctions are concerned, there are cameras in the station. Be aware that I have already proposed to SNCB an agreement with the City of Tournai to continue. I can assure you that I blew up the administrative fines. I really have no problem. But I think that the human solution, with an article 60, would not cost SNCB much. Rather than trying to pinch the bastard who does anything, this solution would fix everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u84	Mr President, Minister, one or more train escorts are present on each train. Among other things, they provide for the reception of passengers, control, punctuality and, of course, safety on the train. I have the following questions, Minister. What are the usual rules for the number of train escorts per train? Is a distinction made between a P-train or IC-train? If so, which one? Is there a distinction between the train equipment? Is a distinction made according to the number of carriages? Of course, that question is not random, because there is a link with the number of train escorts. Is there any deviation from these rules? If so, for what reasons? What are the rules for derogations from the standard procedure? Finally, are there any complaints from SNCB's train staff and/or HR Rail? The reason for my question is a train journey between Brussels and Ghent. I heard a train attendant complain that she was alone on the train and that she could not perform all her duties properly. So are there any complaints? How many complaints have there been since 2010? I'd like a split-up a year. Could you give us some more information on the actual content of the complaints? On which lines were the train guides with complaints mainly active?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u85	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, SNCB tells me that no distinction is made between IC or P trains. In addition, there is no regulatory basis requiring the compulsory presence of a second train attendant. However, policies in this area have been established depending, for example, on the length of the train and/or the type of equipment, such as double-deck equipment. SNCB adds that these are not rules but only recommendations. Each passenger train must be accompanied by an on-board chief. The presence of a second train attendant is not an obligation. This was particularly addressed during discussions with staff representatives in the framework of the preparatory meetings on the implementation of the new annual transport plan. The complaints are mainly about situations where in real time it was decided not to deploy a second train coach, which was originally scheduled. Complaints about the lack of the second train companion are mainly made when it is used in real time as the chief on another train, in order to ensure that train. Since the presence of a second accompanying staff member is not an obligation, that option is usually chosen to avoid the abolition of a train. The complaints mainly concern the connections on which many trains have an extensive composition. Geographically, those connections are scattered all over the grid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u86	One thing I remember, Minister, is that it is handled in a very flexible way. It may not be a good thing that there are no written rules about that. This can, of course, often give rise to frustration among train crews. You also gave the example of the second guide who is not being deployed and has to carry out an assignment on another train. I believe that there should be clear rules to avoid frustrations and complaints to train crews.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u87	Minister, we heard that the nuclear cabinet would have decided to apply for European rail subsidies for a two-track project, namely electrification between Mol and Weert and the construction of a train link between Athus and Mont-Saint-Martin. You would have been given a mandate to submit a file for rail subsidies at Connecting Europe Facility to the European Commission, which would allow Europe to bear some of the costs. Mr Minister, can you explain exactly what was decided on this dossier? As far as I am concerned, these are both dossiers, but you will understand that I am very specifically interested in the Mol-Weert dossier. There was a deadline of February 7 to file those files. Has this file been submitted in good time and in good time? If so, when? If not, why not? What is the total cost of electrification Mol-Weert? For what amount were grants requested for the Mol-Weert project? For what amount do you expect to receive subsidies? What is the timetable of this procedure? Is there not a risk of delay in the file, the usual and the ordinary file, of the Mol-Hamont electrification by applying for European funds? By the way, where are we on the Mol-Hamont electrification file? Is Infrabel provided for the necessary budgets to carry out this process? What's the timeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u88	Minister, I agree with what my esteemed colleague has said. The nuclear cabinet seems to have given you the go-ahead to look for European grants for two cross-border rail projects. For me, it's important to find out more about the Mol-Hamont-Weert connection. For years now my province has been working for the further electrification of the railway link between Antwerp and Hamont, which is today limited to Mol. The rest of the route, between Mol and Hamont and from there across the border to Weert, still has to be operated with environmentally unfriendly diesel trains. You probably know that also the Dutch asking party for electrification until Weert. The province of Nederlands Limburg already stated that it wants to set aside four million euros for the project. Mr Minister, could you explain a little more about the decision of the nuclear cabinet? When will it become clear whether European subsidies will be awarded? What's the timing? What amount of European grants has been applied for? What is the estimated cost of electrification and extension of the railway line to Weert? Will funding be made available in Infrabel's multi-annual investment plan? If so, how many? Have you already consulted your Dutch colleagues on this project? Is it true that the province of Nederlands Limburg would be willing to make a financial contribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u89	A few months ago, the federal government announced that it would call on debt financing to realise a number of projects that were considered to be capable of generating a significant social contribution, and that in a comprehensive framework to establish a multi-annual investment plan for rail. The Kern of 2 February adopted, on my proposal and after analysis, the decision in principle to carry out, within the framework of this amount of EUR 1 billion, in particular priority dossiers for the Regions, in particular the finalization of the RER on the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels territories, as well as two other projects, namely the electrification of line 19 between Mol and Hamont and the second phase of the connection of the Athus railway terminal with the French railway network. The latter two projects were also submitted in a timely manner, i.e. by 7 February yesterday, which was the final date for submission to Europe, of the submission of a European subsidy application for the said investments under the Connecting Europe Facility programme. Many of you have intervened to raise my awareness. I gave the necessary impetus for the project to be studied for line 19 and for the Athus-France line. As regards electrification of the section between Mol and Hamont, the cost is estimated at EUR 46.3 million and the European subsidy requested amounts to EUR 18.5 million. This cost is, of course, still likely to change as studies continue. Since the Dutch State was ultimately unwilling to take over the financing of the electrification work on the Dutch side of the border, which put an end to the project to extend the electrification work to Weert, it was not possible to introduce a cross-border Mol-Hamont-Weert electrification project jointly with the Netherlands. The dossiers are now being examined by the European Commission services and the results are expected to be known by July 2017. You can count on my commitment to firmly defend these two projects. In view of the decision already taken at its core and in view of the pending European grant applications, both projects are not part of the projects which will normally be financed with federal funding in the multiannual plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u90	In the meantime, Mr Van Hees has also come in, and I will give him the opportunity to make a few points in the reply. The first reply is for Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your commitment to the various dossiers. I would also like to express my concern here in committee. When I heard that there was an application for European subsidies, my concern was that this would lead to study work being carried out in the European Commission which would lead to delays. If you do not consider it in the Infrabel investment programme, things will be postponed. We're gonna lose time for this project. That's my concern. I hear from you that we will definitely know if there will be subsidies by the summer of 2017. However, if this is not taken into account, I would ask you to make provision for it in the traditional investment programme of Infrabel. I have already mentioned the reasons for this in the past. You speak of a cost of EUR 47 million at the moment. I told you at the time that electrification of the Mol-Hamont railway would mean an operating saving for SNCB of more than 10 million a year. Each year's delay is 10 million losses. Two years' delay means more loss than the subsidies that would be granted on the European side. If there's any clarity before the summer, I'll say yes. However, if it were to give rise to delays, I would prefer the traditional investment so that we can achieve the savings for SNCB. I would therefore like to thank you for your attention and for your commitment, but I would also urge you to take the shortest possible route which is most financially advantageous for the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u92	Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to give my full support to Mr Verherstraeten's reply. We are not sure today that Europe will come up with these resources. Since that is not certain, we must make a move. I would therefore also like to call for the opening of this project to be included in the normal multi-annual investment plan, because repetition works. These are relatively low investment costs, with high cost coverage, environmentally friendly electric trains instead of diesel trains, the accessibility of Belgians, Flemings to Amsterdam and Rotterdam and vice versa from Dutch to Antwerp. As far as I am concerned, it is only logical that a project which has already been carried out has been electrified up to Mol, I do not think of this as a new project being simply completed and that electrification from Mol to Weert is continued. In the totals of amounts you work with, these are peanuts. We must not let this momentum pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u93	Mr Van Hees no longer wishes to respond to this point, we can conclude item 41 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u94	Mr President, my question No. I would like to turn 16414 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u95	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u96	Mr Minister, at the end of 2016 it was reported that at that time 747 ticket machines were installed in our stations and that almost every station was equipped with at least one vending machine. While in 2015 the ratio of ticket sales to ticket counter versus v. v. v. v. v. v. v. v. v. v. v. v. v. v. v. v. was around 70/30, this ratio evolved to 50/50 last year. The location of a vending machine is chosen on the basis of a number of criteria, such as visibility and accessibility. When asked how many faults are reported to the vending machines, you used to say that each vending machine needs less than two interventions per month on average. 95% of the breakdowns are detected by the monitoring tool or by lack of purchases. In the remaining 5 per cent of cases, it is a matter of slight vandalism. Except in exceptional cases, a faulty machine will be repaired within 24 hours, according to your previous answers. I have the following follow-up questions, Minister. With regard to the number of tickets sold, are there also more detailed figures available per station on sales via ticket counters and vending machines compared to the total number of tickets sold? In other words, is the ratio in all stations 50/50 or are there major differences? If so, which one? Regarding the location of machines, to what extent is the comfort for the traveller also taken into account? With regard to vending machines defects, regardless of the small number of cases in which vandalism plays a role, what are the main causes? Are there any structural problems and how will they be addressed? What cost has been involved in the recovery of vending machines in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u97	SNCB lets me know that the ratio is not the same in all stations. There are several factors that influence the use of the vending machines in stations: the availability of the counter, the type of traveler, staff guidance... For example, a station like Leuven has a relatively higher proportion of vending machines users, given the student population. From the beginning the comfort of the passengers was taken into account. The visibility, accessibility and so on are all factors taken into account for the comfort of travellers. At the end of last year, a protection was placed on the vending machines on which SNCB had received complaints about sunlight reflection, in order to avoid this as much as possible. To the extent possible and in so far as this is not contrary to the other criteria, the vending machines shall be placed under an existing shielding veil. The main problems concern the cash system, the electronic payment terminals and, to a lesser extent, the printers. I will hand you the table with the operational costs per year. For six months in 2013, this amount was EUR 600 000. In 2014, there are 580 vending machines with an operating cost of EUR 2 300 000, 45% of the costs are under the heading "Curative maintenance services'.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u98	We have been informed that Mr Cheron will no longer be coming to this committee today and that he wants to translate all his questions into written questions. These are questions Nos 16142, 16154, 16289, 16353 and 16489. The questions put together under agenda item 25, No. Mr Cheron, No 16310. Mr Van Hees, No. 16316 Question No 16356 by Mr Geerts 16283 of my own, will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u99	Mr President, before I ask my question, I would like to wish a happy birthday to our minister who, to celebrate it, has come to answer a good amount of oral questions! We can thank him for that. I thought of him to bring him some sweetness and encourage him to come and answer our questions on this particular day. Minister, a little chocolate should please you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u100	I received messages on Facebook or text messages telling me that a minister's birthday was being celebrated in a group and that he was not working that day. So there's still a lot of work to do to demonstrate that people work a lot, you like me! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u101	Mr Minister, the press recently reported on the acquisition by the Belgian railway infrastructure manager, Infrabel, of a 3D simulator as part of the training of its agents responsible for the safety of track maintenance teams. In this respect, it seems that Infrabel is the first operator to make such a tool available to its agents. I am pleased to see the gradual integration of new technologies into its management and, therefore, to the benefit of rail users. This dossier contributes to Infrabel's goal of becoming, by 2022, a public body that is 100% digital. Minister, in line with the 2022 target, what are the main investment items selected to achieve this objective? Could you give us an outline? What is the overall schedule of operations? Are some of the projects considered to be priority projects? If so, which ones? What is the estimated cost to reach a 100% digital railway infrastructure manager? Do you have a fiscal scenario? Finally, what is planned in terms of human resources management to facilitate the re-appropriation and proper use of new technologies?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u102	Mr President, dear colleague, Infrabel is taking advantage of the new technological opportunities to modernise its processes and make them more integrated, modern and efficient. This digitalisation will help to strengthen within the company a culture that fosters innovation, collaboration, development, balance between results and human aspects. First of all, this digitalisation is aimed at Infrabel's core business, namely capacity management, traffic management and asset management. This will allow Infrabel to work with an intelligent infrastructure whose components send a signal when they need to be maintained or renewed or when they are deficient. The processes of financial support of human resources, in particular, are also concerned with digitalisation. In their respective fields, this will result in an overall improvement in the productivity of employees, greater user-friendliness at work, and a reduction in administrative burdens and paper use. In view of this process of digitalisation and the increase in cybercrime, Infrabel will need to progressively strengthen the protection of its data centers and its IT and telecom infrastructures. The general timetable depends, of course, on the approval of the budgets. Thus, the concentration and migration of the 31 signalling stations to 10 signalling rooms is an ongoing project. Some operations have already been carried out, namely the production of the new software for traffic management in November 2016, and the introduction of telework within Infrabel from January 2017. Infrabel ensures the continuous training of its staff. The world in which the company operates is undergoing many technological changes. This is the case, for example, in the case of the maintenance of signalling with the development of ETCS or in signal booths following the concentration of signaling stations and the implementation of the new traffic management programme. Infrabel also wants to provide the best training for all staff with management functions. In order to optimize both technical and non-technical training for the railway and to offer concrete learning opportunities to its employees and like railway infrastructure managers from neighbouring countries, Infrabel has decided to set up its own training centre: Infrabel Academy. This will provide both theoretical and practical training through the construction of a technical training hall and simulation tools dedicated to railway specialties. All buildings would be operational by 2019, at the Brussels West station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u103	Minister, thank you for this complete answer. Indeed, as I have already said in other committees on other issues, digitisation is a development that must not be perceived negatively, through the dangers or fears that it might represent, but rather as an opportunity for the future that needs to be addressed with a positive spirit. This is what you are doing in the context of the SNCB and Infrabel missions. You have to anticipate things at best and you seem to be on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u104	Colleagues, there are still five questions to be dealt with in a quarter of an hour. The minister must leave, I propose that the questions be asked quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u105	Minister, you have already answered questions about the One Man Car project. Line 132 had been mentioned and you stated that no line had been chosen. But protests continue and various communes have voted for motions against a One Man pilot project on line 132. A petition was initiated by the train attendants of the Mariembourg depot, which collected 1,400 signatures. Obviously, people do not want this project, whether it be staff or travellers. How do you respond to the signatories of this petition? What about the local councillors? Can you guarantee that there will be no One Man Car pilot project on line 132? SNCB stated that it had not decided anything. Can you tell us what concrete leads they are on the table to test this system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the One Man project is still under study. SNCB informs me that the choice of a pilot experiment has not yet been made. The project is part of the federal government's request to increase the efficiency of the SNCB. Moreover, demand for such a mode of operation is fuelled by the imminent liberalisation of domestic passenger transport. The study was communicated in a transparent manner to staff organisations, which will be involved, through working groups, in a possible implementation of the project. The scope of the project has not yet been determined. However, SNCB states that omnibus trains, with a relatively low occupancy rate, are best suited. However, a partial or full application in suburban traffic around the major cities of Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège or Charleroi is an additional possibility, such as metro and trams. Investments in technical equipment such as cameras, adapted equipment, new means of communication and adapted procedures must ensure a high level of security. Before carrying out such a project, in-depth security analyses will be carried out. They will focus not only on punctuality, but also on societal security and operational safety. The latter is one of the prerequisites for obtaining the agreement of the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service, which is not under the control of the Minister of Mobility and which remains an independent authority. If the project were to emerge, the deployment would be phased in. A limited first deployment is possible from the end of 2018, depending on the investments, training and safety documentation it requires and which must be certified. The deployment would then take several years, depending on the scope for which it would be chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u107	Mr President, I thank the minister for his clarification. You told us about the possibility, which means the project is not certain. You also said that the unions would be associated. These are good news in bad news. We will follow closely the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u108	Minister, the PTB has been looking at SNCB's tariff increases for the past 20 years. Average tariffs have increased by 65% since 1995. This is 20% higher than the consumer price index, which increased by 46% over the same period. I'm not going to give you all the details of the calculation. In any case, you will understand that this increase much faster than the price index is quite appealing. Minister, what provisions on rate increases are provided for in the new management contract? Have you ever made a decision on flexible rates, which vary between peak and off-peak hours? If so, can you clarify? Are you ready to enter a tariff freeze in the next management contract? Minister, there is clearly a price problem in rail transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u109	Dear colleague, every year, SNCB adjusts its tariffs in accordance with the conditions laid down in its management contract. For example, SNCB's board of directors decided to increase prices by an average of 2.93%. This increase is due to the goals achieved in terms of punctuality and the significant increase in the health index. This compliance with the current management contract has been verified by the Mobility and Transport FPS. I still have to explain to you what is included in the management contract. The latter provides that tariffs may be indexed provided that punctuality has been increased. 2017 rates are rising as a result of the 2015 punctuality improvement. You're quoting numbers, Mr. Van Hees. I'll give you another one. Between 2004 and 2014, train ticket prices increased on average by 6.5%, while wages at SNCB increased by 20.5% due to automatic indexation. You immediately understand the difficulties this may pose for the train offer within the SNCB. I have already heard the PTB fight by saying: "We are in favour of wage indexation". When you see the weight of staff salaries in SNCB, you still have to be logical. At some point, in order to allow wage increases and indexation, revenue must also be generated which is indexed and partly from ticket sales and partly from other sources. I agree. On the other hand, SNCB has to cope with a significant increase in operating costs such as, for example, the increase in electricity distribution costs along with other companies. It's much more than the index, I can assure you. SNCB informs me that the prices of the following products have been adapted on 1 February 2017: the train card, the subscriptions. Train cards (travel card, school train card, half-time card and the Railease formula) increase by 3.38%. The campus map increases by 3.38%. The standard ticket has an average increase of 2.6%. The minimum price for a journey of one to seven kilometres from the standard ticket will be 2.2 euros, an increase of 0.1 euros for the second class and the same for the second class, which increases by 0.1 euros. For the Key Card, ticket for ten routes, the price goes from 21 to 22 euros. The unit price increases in accordance with the minimum price of the standard ticket. The Go Pass had not been increased since 2013. From now on, the single journey in the second class increases by €0.2, from €6 to €6.2. The senior banknote also increases by €0.2 from €6 to €6.2. The Rail Pass price had not been adjusted since 2012. Its increase of €0.58 will be less than that of the health index. From 1 February, it will cost 77 euros for ten single trips in the second class. The Go Pass price had not been adjusted since 2014. As with the previous ticket, SNCB limited its tariff increase to 2.18%. SNCB also points out that it also offers its customers tickets at very advantageous rates such as Go Unlimited, the weekend ticket and the shopping tickets. This is the reality of the increases that SNCB has applied under the management contract developed in 2008, known as 2012 and always renewed by amendments, until the new management contract comes into effect, very soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u110	Minister, you are telling us that everything is increasing and that it is normal for rates to rise too. No, it doesn't increase! There is something that is shrinking sharply: it is the state's allocation to SNCB. It's a pretty important element!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u111	I'll show you soon, Mr. Van Hees, that... we'll see! The numbers are on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u112	Minister, I look forward to your figures. In any case, on the one hand, what is strong is that prices are rising sharply, while travellers are complaining more and more about the quality of the service. This is something that travellers can no longer accept. They note a deterioration in service and at the same time an increase in costs. This double movement is quite unbearable. Furthermore, Mr Minister, if we want a genuine mobility policy, public transport should be made more accessible in terms of fares, which I believe is fundamental to the question of prices. Not only are these not more accessible, but they are growing even faster than the price index. That's how unbearable it is!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u113	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the various incidents that occurred at the crossings. An accident in Wavre where fortunately, a mother and her daughter had life saved thanks to the rapid intervention of Infrabel workers. There was also, more tragically, the situation in Wijgmaal of a car that had left the road standing on the road and was hit by a freight train. On February 6, four deaths at a crossing. Minister, are there regular checks by Infrabel at level crossings? How many times a year do they take place? Is there an action plan to reduce the number of crossings and increase safety at these points? Are there concrete objectives, a timetable? How much can Infrabel invest in the next ten years, unless other deadlines are foreseen? What awareness campaigns are planned by the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u114	Mr President, I shall reply in the language of the question which has been put to me in writing. Both the barriers and the wiring of the road are thoroughly monitored annually by specialist technicians. The proper functioning of the barriers is, moreover, constantly monitored by traffic control and, in the event of problems, technicians are directed on the spot. In addition, the lines, including the consideration, are frequently scouted between four weeks and three months, on the basis of the importance of the line. The abolition of consideration remains the first priority for Infrabel. In 2015, Infrabel launched a new safety policy through the Interface Railways Action Plan for the rail crossings whose abolition is not planned or is budgetaryly difficult to achieve in the coming years. The following actions will be developed on the basis of this Action Plan. Firstly, in cooperation with the railway police, carry out a detailed analysis of the accidents at railway crossings mainly due to the negligence of users of railway crossings. Secondly, register parameters relating to the railways, the road situation and the environment, for the creation of a database to calculate the potential risk of accidents at public railway crossings using a statistical model and to establish a new multidisciplinary working group consisting of the railway police and local police, the BIVV, the AWV, the research body, the Mobility and Transport FPS and the relevant services of Infrabel. The timing of awareness campaigns and their theme of safety considerations and trespassing has not been chosen by chance. Studies show that the number of accidents in the winter months is increasing significantly, while there are more cases of trespassing and rail tracks during the summer months. In the short term, for example, actions are planned on the basis of a train wreck, as well as actions aimed at considering the port of Antwerp. In addition to the awareness campaign, the local police, the federal railway police and Securail are also strongly committed to considering additional controls. Infrabel also designed a special flyer, with the main rules on safety to consider and along the rail domain. Infrabel is also currently working on a best-off video of the campaign, which will be distributed through social media, among other things. The campaigns for 2018 have not yet been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I would like to add an additional problem that I have seen myself in my region. These are level crossings at a stop point. To cross the other side and take the train, passengers are tempted to cross the tracks in order not to miss their train, as there is no underground passage or bridge. A pedestrian crossing would be sufficient to solve this problem and avoid deaths.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u116	Minister, first of all, I wish you a happy birthday. The January press echoed the federal police's use of two drones from the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) to examine motorway accidents more quickly and more precisely. The aim is to clear the affected axes in a much more appropriate time frame and at the same time reduce traffic congestion and the risk of over-accident in both directions. Since 1 January 2010, the Federal Road Police of Antwerp has used 2D photogrammetry and, recently, also in 3D in the event of an accident on the motorway network. The purpose of this process is to process police findings more quickly, as they are of better quality and able to accurately determine the positions of vehicles and traces by the nearest centimeter. According to the IBSR, the use of ultra-modern drones will allow the federal police, once on site, to fly over the entire site in a few minutes and pick up everything without having to take any further action. Is there a legal framework, adapted for police purposes, for the use of drones? If so, what does it foresee? If not, are you in favour of introducing regulations and, if so, can you specify their content and timetable? How many drones, in total, does the federal police have? Are you considering purchasing new devices and, if so, can you provide more information on the number and type of devices? What is the cost of this use? What will be the implications for our daily lives? Are there risks of falls, collisions with people or vehicles? If so, what security measures are planned? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u117	My colleague, the use of drones by the police in the course of its mission is a matter for state aircraft and is therefore not subject to civil regulations, whether national or international. This is stipulated in Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 10 April 2016 on the use of remotely piloted aircraft in Belgian airspace. According to DGTA, there are no specific regulations applicable to the police. The Minister in charge of the Interior should be able to answer this question which does not fall within the competence of Mobility. In any event, it is not for DGTA to decide whether a legal framework for the police is appropriate. The IBSR and the police are working closely together to acquire drones and analyse data in accident research, which are important missions to better understand the causes of accidents and thereby improve road safety. According to my information, a drone is already in service and several others could be acquired by the police in the next few months. For more details on the cost of using them or on the security measures taken to avoid an incident, I can only refer you to my colleague from the interior, who should be able to answer you. I am responsible for the management of airspace, including the issuance of authorisations, but this is not necessary in this case. I'm dealing with road safety, but I know the IBSR wants images.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u118	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm going to interview the Minister of the Interior. On the basis of what you have just told me, it is he who will have to provide the answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u119	Mr President, Minister, in 2016, the SPF Mobility and Transport launched the Monitor survey on mobility and road safety in our country in collaboration with the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR). This is a unique collaboration that brings together the resources and expertise of the two organizations. This survey provides a better understanding of the population's patterns of displacement. Indeed, reliable and accurate data are essential for a quality mobility policy. Both the Mobility and Transport FPS and the IBSR have undisputed expertise in the development and conduct of studies. Thus, in this study project, forces are doubled to conduct a large-scale online national survey, in which near-accidents will also be examined for the first time. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. How many people in Belgium were selected to participate in this survey? Is it possible to have the breakdown by age, sex and region? How much did this Monitor survey cost? How was it developed? What was the methodology used? What are the particularities of the Monitor survey compared to the previous Beldam survey of 2010? Has the Minister been able to draw any conclusions from this investigation? To what extent is follow-up planned? Will the results be discussed with the regions? Will this survey lead to concrete actions, projects or political initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u120	Mr. Kir, the Monitor investigation is still under way. The Mobility FPS and the IBSR will be able to begin analysis of the final results from the end of 2017. A report will be published in 2018. These data, like those of the Beldam survey, which are still being used for the moment, will then be usable by all the actors involved in mobility, in particular the Regions. It is indeed essential to have reliable and precise figures in order to draw up a coordinated policy on more sustainable and safer mobility, which I wholeheartedly welcome. I will contribute as much as possible if I can make things easier. As a reminder, as part of the Monitor survey, 30,000 Belgians are interviewed. 10,000 Belgians complete a full questionnaire, 20,000 to a short questionnaire. The survey is carried out via an online survey institute. The persons are selected and the answers given are weighted so that the results are representative of the Belgian population, taking into account the criteria of age, sex and region of residence. The cost of the survey is 97 000 862 euros, which is shared between the Mobility FPS and the IBSR. The full questionnaire consists of two parts. The first part consists of a general questionnaire on the mobility habits of the interviewee and the transport subscriptions he or she has at the time the questions are asked. Subsequently, individuals are invited to complete a detailed questionnaire on their previous day's travel. The short questionnaire is submitted 20 times a year to 1,000 different people and places more emphasis on respondents' feelings about mobility issues. On the one hand, it's a subjective analysis. On the other hand, it is objective analysis, as in the case of the security monitor, for example, at the police level. Apart from the fact that this time it is a collaboration between the Mobility and Transport FPS and the IBSR, the method of investigation is completely different. During the Beldam survey, some respondents were interviewed face-to-face and others were interviewed by mail with, in some cases, telephone calls. The Monitor survey is conducted online, allowing direct checks on encoded responses, as well as interviewing more people at a much lower cost. In addition, as you mentioned, this is the first time that issues related to near-accidents will be addressed on a large scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u121	Minister, thank you for your complete answers. You answered all the questions. I am, like you, curious to have the results and conclusions, which will give us an opportunity to have a new debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic586x.u122	For the sake of completeness, I would like to add that question No. Question No 16486 by Mrs Lalieux Mrs Temmerman's 16509 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf's 16320 lapses as he has not been heard from him.
