ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the tight time available to us and the Prime Minister, I suggest that we begin our work. We will also be discussing a draft law in committee at 11 a.m. The next item is an exchange of views with the Prime Minister on the National Pact for Strategic Investments. The meeting was postponed 14 days ago when the Prime Minister could not be present for medical reasons. I propose that the Prime Minister first explain the objectives and methodology. Since a number of oral questions were addressed to the Prime Minister, we added them to the exchange of views. I suggest that we start with the Prime Minister's introduction and immediately ask the questioners their questions. Since this is an exchange of views, other fellow Members can take advantage of it. Then we give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer the questions and then there is time for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the government's economic and social strategy is based on a triptych. We believe that we must continue to make every effort to move towards fiscal consolidation. There are regular debates on this subject between us. It is clear that the task is not easy, but the tendency must be to mobilize everything to put our public finances in order. First point. Secondly, structural reforms are needed to try to support work, initiative, investment, economic development and employment. It is in this spirit that, for the past two and a half years, we have proposed to Parliament a great many reforms in the economic and social field, reforms which directly affect the competitiveness of enterprises, with sometimes, it is true, a particular focus on SMEs, which we think is also extremely important. In addition to these two points - structural reforms and consolidation - a third point seems fundamental to us, namely the ambition for structural investment. We did indeed want to highlight, with a structural strategy, a capacity to mobilise public and private resources to stimulate investments that will strengthen our economic and, therefore, social strength. It is in this context that I made this commitment several months ago to launch this process, this investment pact. The primary objective of the National Pact for Strategic Investments is to support growth, job creation and, through this, to maintain our model of social cohesion. I want to be precise about this: it is intended to speed up existing projects but which have sometimes been stuck for many years. I can give a lot of examples in this respect if the question is to be asked. It also aims to stimulate innovative projects in an optimistic and ambitious way towards the future. It aims at a period between today and 2030, to go beyond the framework of a legislature, given the fact that ambitious projects - experience often shows - are developing in a time frame that goes beyond the framework of a legislature. We want the pact to be a real catalyst for both private and public investment. Particular attention shall be paid to the optimisation of complementarity between the two. The project also responds to the situation of structural under-financing at European level in general and in Belgium in particular. Like you, I was certainly impressed by the latest study by the Planning Bureau on this subject. The study showed a structural underinvestment in Belgium, which would mean structural impoverishment for Belgium in the future. In the same way that, when we talk about fiscal consolidation, we fear the risk of postponing bills for the next generation, not investing today would be a hidden debt for succeeding generations. Budgetary responsibility must also be accompanied by responsibility for the ability to mobilise structural resources for well-selected, well-selected investments with a fully forward-looking added value. That is the first point of introduction that I wanted to mention. The second point relates to the history and content of the project. Since the presentation of the Pact's conductive lines in September 2016, a great deal of contact has been established with public and private actors in order to identify lines of action for a strategic and technical approach, so that we do not simply fit in with the incantation, with the announcement effect, but with the implementation, with the operational implementation, with a method that I want as effective as possible. I have also had a lot of discussions at European level, both with representatives of the European Commission, but also with our partners at European level, i.e. with the representatives of the various governments that sit next to me in the European Council. On this occasion, I put forward every time the reasoning that this investment strategy was necessary in Belgium and, more generally, in Europe, to participate in the engine of economic development and in job creation. Finally, on 31 March, an important moment for the federal government, I made a proposal validated by the Federal Council of Ministers which draws up the operational strategy, which also presents an initial indicative list for just under EUR 30 billion of projects. In practical terms, this first decision of 31 March adopted by the Council of Ministers has five components. One, governance structure; two, thematic axes; three, funding methods; four, European part and five, operationalisation. Firstly, on the governance structure, governance must be simple and have the greatest possible autonomy for action. A strategic committee was set up with six members. The Chairman of the Committee shall be Michel Delbaere. In addition, two thematic cells were set up, one for private investment and the other for public investment. A permanent secretariat was established at the FOD Chancery and is operational to ensure the administrative and technical support of the Committee and the cells. As we speak, the secretariat has been operational for several weeks at the start of the Chancellery and supports the work already begun in the Strategic Committee. I'll be back in a few moments. In addition to the structure of government, there are the thematic axes. I have presented them several times in Parliament. I repeat: mobility, energy and the digital agenda. On March 31, 2017, we decided to add two other themes: State authority and infrastructure, on the one hand, and health and care, on the other. Why these themes? I think they're talking about themselves. Everyone is well aware of the fact that they are responding to a major concern for putting our country in order in the field of infrastructure in the coming years. As far as mobility is concerned, everyone is well aware of the impact of congestion - economic impact but also impact in terms of quality of life for our citizens - which we are facing. Having an organised, ambitious strategy on this subject is obviously a necessity. I want to say from the outset that the Pact is part of a strategy. Another aspect relates, for example, to the discussions to be held on taxation matters. Are there not any other approaches on these subjects in which we will have to gradually evolve? As far as the digital agenda is concerned, in 2015 we launched an ambitious operation for the digitalisation of the country, with the ambition to create tens of thousands of additional jobs within the framework of the digital agenda. Everyone is well aware that this transformation is both an issue, a challenge, but can also be an opportunity. In this context, very concrete initiatives are being launched. I'll come back later. Finally, I come to the question of energy. There's no need for a big plea. Over the last two weeks, we have held a few debates on this at the plenary session of the Chamber. Especially after the decision at the international level of the United States in that perspective, I reaffirm that it is without doubt a priority for us. We must therefore also draw up a clear and coherent strategy in this area. The Investment Pact is an important aspect. However, there are also other important issues in the field of energy and transition. I am thinking, for example, of the Energy Pact, which requires negotiations with the Länder. The intention is to conclude an agreement on this matter before the end of 2017 in order to be in order at European level. On this subject, the investment pact must be coherent and strengthen this process within the framework of the energy pact. As far as infrastructure and state authority are concerned, I will take the example of security. Parliament, through the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, has made recommendations of which we have become aware. It is clear that investing in infrastructure to consolidate security is also an ambition that must drive us, an ambition around which we must find ourselves beyond a legislature and within a framework that goes beyond the traditional debates between the majority and the opposition. The same reasoning applies to health care. That is an important challenge. The level in Belgium is good compared to many other European countries. It is our ambition for the future to invest in it and support the economic sector for health care. That's a bit of the same reasoning. You will have understood that five themes have been identified. It does not seem to me to be necessary to argue a great deal in order to demonstrate its relevance. I would add that this implies a dynamic reasoning. It will then be possible to refine and adapt these themes in the light of the democratic debate and the report to be issued by the Strategic Committee. After the mode of governance and the thematic actions, I come to my third point: the method of financing. The general rule, the general reasoning, is pragmatism. We believe that for each of the projects, in each of the themes, we need to have a specific reasoning on how to finance them. In other words, there is no funding option for each project. That would be, anyway, stupid. If we don't want to be wrong about financing techniques, we need to do an objective analysis, project by project. This means in practice that the financing of certain projects will be purely public. In these cases, it will be up to the public authorities concerned to take decisions and multi-annual commitments. The pact may be useful in stimulating consultation and coordination between different levels of government (federal, federated entities, or even local authorities in some cases). That's for public funding. With regard to purely private financing, the pact is useful because it can lead to a boost effect. It can encourage economic operators, convinced by the overall strategy of the investment pact, to take decisions. The aim is to mobilise private capital in line with the ambitions and objectives of the Pact. But it's more than that. I am also counting on the Strategic Committee, within the framework of the recommendations, to make proposals to the authorities on possible barriers and obstacles to private investment. I am convinced that it can be interesting and useful to analyse structural obstacles and obstacles in our country, as well as how public authorities can, if necessary, take initiatives and undertake reforms to make structural investment simpler and more attractive. As part of my first intensive working meetings with the Strategic Committee, this is one of the points that has already emerged. It is the idea that there are obstacles in our landscape, although they do not necessarily have a budgetary impact. These are sometimes regulatory or administrative barriers, which delay the implementation of projects. I also count on the recommendations of the Strategic Committee to make our country much more attractive in terms of private investment. The third part is obvious; it concerns public-private partnerships. You know that, in recent years, we have occasionally been confronted with a sense of absurd interpretation at European level. This interpretation has led to a number of difficulties in implementing and implementing investments. On this subject, we must be very transparent. It seems to us that, in recent months, the European authorities have made progress at the request of countries such as Belgium, in order to clarify certain principles for the interpretation of European rules on public-private partnerships. Progress has been made in this area. Nevertheless, it seems to me that we must continue to ensure that stability exists in the European interpretation of these public-private partnerships. This is the whole debate between the ICN at Belgian level and Eurostat at European level. The way in which certain public-private partnership projects are taken into account is a matter of interpretation of European rules. But I repeat, there has been a development in recent months. It is already a translation of the evolution of thought at European level. There is more stability, compared to what we have experienced a few years ago on the subject. In the area of financing, my intention is also to encourage decision-making within the budgetary framework and within the framework of the Councils of Thematic Ministers, in order to mobilise savings more to direct it towards the real economy. Several techniques exist. My intention is not to detail this aspect today; we will come back later on this subject, in the context of arbitrations which will have to be made at the level of the Councils of the thematic ministers, or in the case of budgetary arbitrations. Finally, as a complementary point on the financing side, we are moving towards the technique we call value for money, i.e. the willingness, project by project, to objectify the most appropriate financing technique. The question is, each time, the actual net value of the project. It is my conviction that this is also important for our plea at European level. If we want to be persuasive at European level, it is necessary to go to the greatest extent possible. We must also be able to prove every time that the project is productive and that its funding is relevant. This is crucial to be convincing and credible in order to strengthen our position at European level. At European level, we have some strengths to highlight, but also some points of fragility such as the level of debt. We must therefore improve our arguments in order to be convincing in the negotiations with our European partners. At the European level, we will continue the negotiations, which have started from a technical and political point of view. We want to involve as much as possible the federated entities, so that Belgium speaks with one voice in all its components during this debate in the European Union. We also hope that the strategy we want to deploy in the dynamic management of state participations will be an argument at European level. We know and must remain aware that our country is suffering from its level of debt. If we can show that state participations are managed with dynamism, we can use this argument to legitimise this strategy of fiscal consolidation and, at the same time, of freeing up capacity for investments. We will have to demonstrate that in the medium term they will support our fiscal consolidation, because they will be productive and stimulate growth and employment. It is the virtuous circle in which we wish to enroll our country. I turn now to the recommendations and operationalization of the Strategic Committee, which was installed at the end of March. What is his mandate? It aims to draw up as objective an assessment as possible - which I call a diagnosis - of our country's strengths and weaknesses in terms of both public and private investment. Why? With regard to the examination of our forces, we must be able to continue to consolidate them. In addition, we will need to see how to fill our weaknesses. On the basis of this assessment, the Committee will have to make specific proposals and recommendations, not only for policy makers, but also for economic and social actors. Our objective is to develop an investment-friendly economic, legislative, financial and budgetary environment. In concrete terms, I have asked the Strategic Committee to provide me with a first report of recommendations before July 21. It will be presented to Parliament by the Strategic Committee, in accordance with the proposal submitted to the Conference of Presidents and, I believe, endorsed in the Committee on the Interior. Secondly, I believe that the work of the Committee should move towards a more operational phase. The aim will be to identify ways to speed up and facilitate the implementation of the projects identified at the launch of the Covenant. Secondly, the Strategic Committee could be mandated by the Consultation Committee in the context of the analysis of the projects identified as "federal government and federated entities". A first project inventory was carried out at the federal level around the themes that were selected and presented. In total, public or private and public/private projects represent at this stage a first indicative amount of EUR 30 billion. This list is not exhaustive and will evolve. It includes old projects that were stuck in, but also new projects and indications for future projects. This is a first exercise based on the work carried out in recent months at the departure of the government and on the conclusions of the meetings and working meetings held since September with various actors from the academic, economic and institutional worlds. This evolving list will have to adapt to the proposals and recommendations of the Strategic Committee, but also in the context of the dialogue with the federated entities. More specifically, we have a first list of €30 billion and my ambition is to raise this amount to €60 billion between 2017 and 2030. We must mobilize to stimulate public and private investment, through partnerships where possible, to succeed - this would be unprecedented for decades in our country - in mobilizing EUR 60 billion over a period of 15 years towards the strategic sectors identified. Finally, with regard to associations with federated entities, how, in our complex federal landscape, can we succeed in mobilizing political forces? At the March 31 Consultation Committee, we had the opportunity to prepare this direction as part of this pact at the start of the federal government. We agreed, at the 26 April Consultation Committee, to set up a working group representing the federal government and the federated entities, in order to list concretely the projects for which there is a political will on the part of the governments to work together. It is really pragmatism that guides the approach that has been defined. In concrete terms, this means that at the next Consultation Committee, at the end of June, we will assess the state of play in identifying projects that could be the subject of concerted action within the Covenant. I will propose to my colleagues from the federated entities that, before the end of the year, a special consultation committee on structural investment be held. I think that we must try to create, at a regular pace, a political momentum so that, after intensive prior technical preparation, we can find ourselves around the table at the political level, in the presence of the Strategic Committee, in order to define guidelines, monitoring, the way of working to achieve results. This ambitious work must be done. There is still one point that I think is important, and that is the question of the federal budget. Where is this political ambition to implement this strategy found in the federal budget? After the intense reflection of the last few weeks, two dimensions emerge. I want to be didactic about it. The first dimension is marginal; it is the logistical means, the means of study included in the interdepartmental provisions and in the budget of the Prime Minister's Chancellery. This aspect is quite minor from a financial point of view. The second dimension is the means necessary for the implementation of the various projects, in particular those included in the indicative list. In this context, I asked for a reflection to be initiated by the Budget Department. If it is technically possible, it seems to me that it would be politically useful that in the future there is a specific section "Pact for investments" in the federal state budget, so that everyone can see clearly. In the various departments (mobility, energy, digital agenda, state authorities, health), projects covered by the Covenant could be found in a special section. Pourquoi cela? The aim is to ensure transparency and to give the parliamentary monitoring and monitoring of the implementation of the projects a chance. In my view, this would allow the relationship between Parliament and the government to take on a new form. I am in favour of this approach. We just need to check whether this is not a problem at technical level and in the context of our consultation with the European Commission. As we have to present our budget to the European Union, I want to do things in such a way that we are not, if we want to do well, sanctioned by Europe. If it appears that this is possible, I will make it possible to set up a special section in future budgets. This will not be possible for budgetary control 2017. This will be possible as soon as possible for the 2018 budget, at the earliest in 2018. This is in any case my ambition, my wish and it would, I think, also give a capacity for stability, clarity, transparency on how the Pact is being launched, how gradually it is being implemented, with the ability of every parliamentarian to see, in relation to the commitments that have been made within the framework of the Pact, what is being realized and at what speed. This seems to me to be a useful method of strengthening the political driving force of this Pact and, I repeat, still beyond a legislature. So you see it's an instrument that I believe a lot. It is a political instrument that reflects an ambition: EUR 60 billion. That's ambition. There is a first envelope of 30 billion indicative that has been identified. In my view, we need to increase to 60 billion euros between 2017 and 2030. It is a different and unprecedented process compared to our usual institutional practices. That is why I propose that before the end of the year there should be a special consultation committee on strategic investments to mobilize political will on the subject. As I have committed myself to it, I hope – and this meeting is, I hope, a starting point – that there will be the voices of an association of parliament beyond the classical logic, majority and opposition. I mean, you get it. I hope that by mobilising civil society alongside us, economic, academic and social actors, we can also think about a way of citizen information, citizen participation and, perhaps, it is also a useful subject for debate that the government and parliament could lead. Not everything is written in relation to this, and we are very open to thinking about an intelligent way to mobilise our fellow citizens on a subject that will affect them in the coming decades. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is some of the elements I wanted to introduce.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. A number of questions have been added to this exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your introduction. As you know, since your first announcements about this Pact last September, environmentalists have been very responsive, very constructive. We have made clear the importance for us of public investment, investment in certain sectors that are crucial for our citizens today, and especially for our children and grandchildren. We believe that it is essential to mobilise very important financial resources to invest in the future, to invest in the future. We are therefore extremely attentive and highly mobilized on this issue of the National Investment Pact. We are also thinking about how we can move forward in this area, about projects that are important to us as ecologists. We are therefore very active in meeting actors from civil society, the economic world and the trade union world to make progress as well. I would like to return to the themes that you have rewritten today. I would also like to ask you one or two questions about the Strategic Committee and the budget. As regards, first of all, the themes, as you said, you made an announcement on the first three themes: mobility, the digital agenda and the energy transition. We found this choice very interesting because we believe that these are fundamental themes. Subsequently, two themes were added, namely health, which is a fundamental sector for the future, and the authority of the State. Here the question arises of exactly what we are talking about. At first, there had been talk of prisons and purchases of F-16, which obviously had cooled us considerably or, in any case, much less excited. Today, you're talking about security-related infrastructure. If it is indeed a question of strengthening the infrastructure of our police and security services, we may be able to move forward together on some points. But if it's to invest in prisons and buy F-16s, we're much less enthusiastic. In concrete terms, you said that you had taken over some projects, that new projects would be presented. Could you give us a little more information about the latter? I have made a count of the mobility measures. You have resumed the announcements related to the end of the work of the RER. You also mentioned the planned investments in rail (acquisition and renovation of rolling stock, passenger reception, extension and maintenance of the capacity of the railway network or the network safety system). So we came to a total of 8.8 billion in the March 31 announcements. In our view, this was already announced. I wanted to know if there were any other projects or other desires that you wanted to achieve and that would fit into this theme Mobility. I had the same question about the energy transition. It is above all the windscreen that was developed during the announcements made on March 31. We are talking about three new offshore parks, which will represent a few billion more. Once the parks are completed, Belgium will have a total capacity of 2,200 megawatts. In our view, these are already announced projects. Are there any other leads? Things don't have to be 100% concrete, but what would be the paths of new projects that you would have since in mind? Finally, I ask the same question about the digital agenda; we talked about the opportunity to invest in digital infrastructure and the development of smart cities, smart cities. For smart cities, 100 million are planned. The aim is also to develop the fibre optics network and to move to 5G. Proximus has announced three billion investments. At this level too, do you have other new projects to announce, as the announcements have already been made? I come to the Strategic Committee and to governance. At the March 31 announcements, we had two thoughts and I wanted to ask you about them. The first concerns the composition of the committee. We have the impression that the great absentees are the representatives of the workers. Did you plan to expand the circle? It is important to have a balance. It is good to have the representatives of the employers, but it would also be good to have the representatives of the workers, to benefit from a broader discussion on the choices and investment projects. During your March 31 communication, and although you mentioned it a little in your introduction, the Regions also seemed to be the big ones absent. What about it? You have described some mechanisms and the establishment of a working group. But so far, how has consultation with the Regions taken place? For their part, have the Regions already made progress on projects that you could, if necessary, detail? How did the collaboration go until today? What have you planned for the future? Could you say more about the collaboration that has been yours so far? I will stop here for this first round of speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister, for this presentation. Indeed, as you announced last year, the government finalized this national investment pact at the end of March. It's true that it's a big project. I know that in your personal capacity, you are particularly interested and very active in this matter. You mentioned an initial amount of thirty billion and even today, an ambition of sixty billion. I think that we can only underline this ambition of the government, but also yours as Prime Minister. I would also point out that these are public investments, you said, but also private ones. And that's an element to highlight at this point. You also wanted to involve the federated entities by directly involving them in this process and it is also evidence of a desire to unite around this project. There are several strategic sectors that were initially identified: mobility, in particular rail, the energy transition - and we know how topical it is - or digital with the development of smart cities, we will come back to it. You have added the authority and infrastructure sector of the State. The current situation in recent months shows how much attention needs to be paid to it. Not to mention the health and care sector. These are therefore sectors of prime importance for the future, providing jobs but also strong opportunities in terms of the competitiveness of our economy and the efficiency of our public services. So, in terms of governance, we can obviously welcome the creation of the Strategic Committee, made up of personalities from the socio-economic world; it will be responsible, in particular, for making recommendations. The creation of this consultative and decision-making committee to support useful synergies between the different levels of power and to involve the different actors of civil society can also be welcomed. Prime Minister, he is pleased to see this project move forward, come to an end with concrete proposals. Long-term investment in modern and strategic sectors for the future is a necessity for the well-being of our citizens today but also for the future. Future generations will obviously be affected. Not investing today is putting the future of future generations at risk. I think that we must also reflect on these terms and it is pleased to see that this government is putting the necessary means to achieve this. In parallel with this commitment to invest in the future, your government is also pursuing a necessary and essential work on structural consolidation of public finances. It is an element that obviously needs to be taken into account when referring to this approach. Indeed, in order to implement a sustainable investment strategy, we must not mortgage our future. The balance between these two aspects is essential. And I salute the government in this context. Before coming to a few additional questions, because you have already painted a fairly complete picture, I would have liked to highlight the methodology you used. You said you wanted to have a federative approach. I think that putting federated entities around the table, but also civil society actors, as well as having a complementary and integrated approach with parliament, is a useful thing. You also mentioned the possibility of involving citizens. I think that in the context of other debates that we have here in this Parliament, particularly in relation to the political renewal where we are talking about citizen involvement and participation, about the rapprochement between politics, elected representatives, the decisions that are taken by elected representatives and citizens, of course, this can also be part of this new approach in terms of governance. A few questions about the different priority projects are quickly coming up. I would also like to know, in relation to the old projects but above all to the new ones that you may have already identified at this stage and in relation to the consultations you may have had with the federated entities, whether there are already proposals from them on the table to be able to move forward in this area. On smart cities, could you give us more information? It is true that this is an important topic especially for the big cities and in particular our capital Brussels. We know that she has suffered in recent months with an image sometimes a little damaged as a result of all this Brussels bashing that we have known. Could we invest and be a driving force in this area? For our capital, that would obviously be important. Do you have any complementary elements in terms of strategic objectives to communicate to us? Finally, could you tell us a further word about the consolidation of the state's public finances, which is obviously a necessary corollary to any investment? I conclude here for this first round of speech and thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u6	Mr President, I apologize for my late arrival, which is beyond my control. Prime Minister, we had a meeting scheduled a few days ago that you were unable to attend. I wanted to make sure you're well restored and if you don't, I wish you a speedy recovery. I hope you won't have to suffer any of the consequences of this unfortunate incident. As far as the National Pact for Strategic Investments is concerned, the position of the CDH is a priori favourable because we are well aware of the need to relaunch a dynamic of public investment. In this regard, we would like to support all initiatives that can boost growth and employment, particularly in promising sectors. Five themes were identified: mobility, energy transition, the digital agenda, the sovereign functions of the State, health care. I also hear that the list is not closed and that there may be openings to other types of investment. In this regard, do you consider the request of the federated entities for intangible investment admissible? It would not be uninteresting to think about it. Prime Minister, this is a famous challenge that you are launching and that Belgium is launching itself. There are many difficulties and I hope that we can overcome them. One of these concerns the complexity of our state apparatus, including this distinction between the federal state and federated entities. Political divisions do not make things easier. It is therefore really important that there is an overstepping of the reflex a little natural to throw responsibility on the other when there is a difficulty. Although it can sometimes be understood in political terms, it is an attitude that would not meet the challenges at hand. When you hear each other's interventions, you sometimes feel like you're at the start of a trial of intent about a concertation that would not be sufficiently prepared, with a series of breaches. I believe that all this is anecdotal and it is necessary that some sort of sacred union can emerge. This requires that the Consultation Committee really become a place of collaboration and that, beyond the meetings, there is also a flow of information. We know the difficulties, but we must be able to overcome them, otherwise we may not be able to meet the challenges. A second difficulty concerns the European Commission, because we know that we need to get its approval from a budgetary point of view. You said that you were in dialogue with the Commission services in this regard. In the Committee on Finance, when we heard the Commission's representatives on budgetary adjustment, we perceived all their reluctance, for a well-understood reason. Indeed, as long as we are not in order in terms of deficit or debt, we are somewhat suspicious of our willingness to increase investment. This dialogue is not gained in advance, but I hope that we will be able to complete it. Perhaps you can tell us more about the difficulties facing the Commission and the chances that we have of overcoming them so that we can find the flexibility necessary to make these investments, which will undoubtedly have a positive effect in the medium term, within the framework of budgetary discipline which is imperative for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u7	Mobilizing the private sector is another issue. I think it is important, beyond the partnerships between the public authorities (federal state or federated entities), to mobilise private actors. You mentioned the problem of the activation of savings. Attempts have been made, including the thematic citizen loan. Success has not always been at the meeting. It's a process that's not easy. How do you intend to attract this private funding? Are you thinking about specific mechanisms to combine the efforts of public and private funding authorities? A word about dynamic heritage management. You're talking about dynamic management of state participations. Can you be a little more specific about which interests, in the first place, could be the subject of decisions? What are your preferences? Would the valorisation of these participations, in your mind, make it possible to finance the investments from the outset? Or will there be an assignment, in whole or in part, to debt reduction? I imagine that is part of your negotiations with the Commission. As far as the budget is concerned, you have for a long time spoken of an amount of 30 billion. Here you are announcing 60 billion by 2030. What justifies this doubling of the envelope? Is it the will to inflate the effect a little? I want to believe that this is not just an announcement effect, but that there is really a concrete ambition. What does this amount correspond to? Is there a willingness to integrate new projects? Where does this amount come from? Finally, in conclusion, you announced your proposal to have a budget translation from Budget 2018. I think that is indeed desirable. You mention the possibility of a specific section. Is this a kind of provision whose amounts would then be returned to the budgets of the departments that have to manage the various sectors? Or is this a section from which investments could be decided? Another option, that applied under the Walloon Marshall Plan, would be to label certain basic allocations in the budget, even if new ones were created, so as to be able to identify all the credits that fall under the Investment Pact. It is true, however, that this disperses the budget entries throughout the State budget and that this undermines its readability. In any case, I take note of your intention, if not for the second 2017 adjustment in any case for the 2018 budget, to have a budget model that allows the process to begin. Thank you for the information you were able to give us. I confirm that we will be attentive to this process and that we will support it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u8	Thank you, Mr. Dispa. There was still a question from Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, but since she is not present, we will proceed directly to a second round. I give the floor to Mr Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, the study of the Planning Bureau was indeed worrying, especially the conclusion that the level of investment has been halved since 1970. This is worrying because, of course, sustainable growth is impossible without investment. That is why it is good that we are sitting here together to reflect on how we will deal with this and ensure that sustainable growth is restored. As a result of what is ahead, I have a number of questions and concerns. First of all, you provide for your pact not only public investment, but also private investment. You say that they are equally necessary and I share your opinion, but to what extent do you see synergy between public authorities and the private sector? Do you have any specific information on this, or will it be developed in the future? Secondly, we would also like to point out that investment must continue to be accompanied by the necessary breathing space for companies so that they continue to invest in innovation. In this respect, we believe that fiscal adjustments are still necessary. We are thinking of stimulating taxation which will improve competitiveness and create jobs. I will not say anything about every part of the plan, because within a few weeks we will have an exchange of views with the strategic committee and there will be scope for discussing specific, concrete elements. We're not gonna do that here and now, or I won't. What does interest me is the planned investment for the security of the territory and of the population. You focus on energy networks and communications networks. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, we have actually already made a nice course with this government. A global attack has recently taken place, and that has shown our vulnerability, fortunately without too much damage, which could have been much greater. That is why I would also like to ask you what direction you intend to take with the National Investment Pact, specifically with a view to improving cyber security. Then I come to mobility. No coincidence is mobility the first of the five themes you include. That is an important point in our economic structure. The more we stand still, the more the economy stands still. This costs money to our companies and, in fact, to our society as a whole. We therefore believe it is important that all possible alternatives are considered on crucial points. Railways obviously have an essential role to play in this. The efficiency and effectiveness of the railways is still a thorn in the eyes of very springy people. We think it is very important that the government should pay attention to the regional priorities of SNCB. Regional priorities, as you said yourself, mean that optimal cooperation between all the Länder is absolutely necessary to ensure that the national plan will also be a success. Without the cooperation of the Länder it will unfortunately not succeed, or rather, it will not succeed. You also indicate that the financing methods are three-fold. I do have some questions about the activation of the savings. We're hooked up to a savings book. We're having trouble dynamizing our savings. How do you intend to use that to stimulate these investments? Will you do that with government bonds or will it be done in a more innovative way? The dynamic management of the state heritage is also discussed. How do you think this will generate funds? I'm just a little afraid that we'd use a drug, like we used to do with the sale-and-leaseback, which gives us breathing space at some point, but that in the long run wouldn't be the right investment. The public and private funding are addressed together. How do you see this synergy? Finally, we believe it is important that all the investment proposals that will be made will receive a sufficiently independent evaluation on an economic return. Why? Not only for ourselves, of course, to ensure that it does not become alternative funding and that we are also dynamic in it, but also for Europe this will be important, because Europe obviously considers it important that, if there is economic return, there may be an opportunity to keep certain investments outside budget standards. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your briefing. This is a first approach to the partnership that you want to establish with Parliament on this issue. I also welcome the investment plan you have just presented. We are, of course, in favour of an economic policy to boost investment. We have long advocated for the release of the State's investment capacity, so that its positive effects on economic activity – so also on the private sector – will finally be felt. I believe that no one will contradict me if I say that we will not be able to get out of the financial, economic and social crisis that began in 2008 without giving back to the state its ability to respond positively to the economy. However, there is a major obstacle ahead of us. I am thinking of the Stability and Growth Pact, which applies to public expenditure blind criteria as to whether it is productive or not. This is a central point in the future success of this plan. Have you ever been able to discuss this with the European bodies? Did you perceive any openness on their part? What is your government's guideline in this regard? How do you plan to evolve this issue? We are indeed concerned about what is involved in the Stability Pact. Secondly, I come to a more structural aspect. As my colleague has said, if we want this plan to work, it is important for everyone to support it. When I say "each", it involves not only the federal state, but also the federated entities, since several of their competences are concerned: mobility, through road infrastructure, as well as health care. You insisted on your willingness to work with them. We can only rejoice in that. However, we regret that the Strategic Committee has no place for the Regions. What is the reason? I would remind you that the success of this plan will require cohesion and investment from everyone. I understand that you want to work with the Regions. In this case, how will you associate them with the plan? To take a concrete example, several inventories have already been prepared. So how did the consultation with the Regions take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u11	And even for the future, for all the new files, I assume that a whole series of important files can still be involved in the plan. How will this be done? I come to another point concerning this Strategic Committee. You obviously involve the private, public, financial and academic sectors. However, I regret that the social partners are not involved. I'd like to have your thoughts on this. As you said earlier, and this is stated in the note, that the social partners will also be informed, why not include them in this Strategic Committee? Again, I believe that the more people will be involved in this project, the more likely it will be to succeed. Also in the context of capital gains with the federated entities, I wanted to highlight their experience in terms of public-private partnership, which shows how interesting it would be for them to be involved in this Strategic Committee, which must reflect on this whole issue. A word about financing. You mentioned some of the amounts that have increased most recently. For my part, I'm open. We will support all projects that will be positive for our people and to revive the economy. But, as far as direct funding is concerned, how do you see it? You're relying on private investment. How are you going to solicit them? How will you encourage them? You insist on public-private partnership. Positive experiences have been made, among others, in the regions. It must be inspired and encouraged. Are you also considering foreign investment? If so, how do you intend to encourage them? How do you plan to work with some foreign investors? What is your vision in relation to this? Finally, in relation to these investments and project inventories, I hope – and once again, it is one of the conditions for the success of this plan to be guaranteed – that we will work on the basis of concrete projects, clear objectives and not on a possible distribution key, because there, again, this could cause problems and favour one Region over the other. I hope that this logic of allocation between Communities and its criteria will emerge and that we will work on clear and precise objectives. Finally, as I said, I thank you for involving Parliament in the process. It will be necessary to see how this can be put into practice. I can assure you that, in any case, as far as my group is concerned, we will work constructively in the development, monitoring and verification of this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u12	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the exchange of views in this committee. Several Members have already asked questions about this investment pact, both in terms of budget, timing and how the project is being implemented, with the consultation with the regions and with regard to more information on the different strategic investment domains and the various clusters in investment. I myself have a number of questions about the budgetary path and the consultation with Europe and the European Commission, I have specific questions on energy and, finally, I also have questions about the future follow-up, timing and your approach to the Pact. Firstly, I think we all agree on this, and the CD&V Group also strongly supports the approach to an investment pact, especially in the current economic context. The government's vision is to focus on economic growth and jobs. The motto of your government is jobs, jobs, jobs. If the investment pact can contribute to even more jobs and to an even greater economic dynamism to stimulate both growth and employment growth, then we strongly support and support it effectively. In the government's note to reach a decision on that investment pact, I saw that the link to economic growth is being established and that strategic investment must be able to achieve that growth effectively. I would like to ask the following question. How can we be sure that these strategic investments can have an effective impact on economic growth and that in the long term there can be effective revenue effects for the budget? After all, I have also read somewhere that there is a great deal of payback in the economic growth that we are trying to achieve, so that we can take these investments into account in the budget. How can we be sure that this will make it possible to attract even more economic growth? How then can these payback effects be assured and argued to be included in the budget? Secondly, as regards the budget and the consultation with the European Commission, we had an exchange of views with Commissioner Thyssen here in April with the Finance and Business Committees in the Europe Advisory Committee. In line with the European Semester and budgetary rules, it stated that it was difficult for several European Member States to achieve a relaxation of the framework in order to meet Belgium's demand for easier investment in the budget and the multi-annual path with Europe. I found it interesting or at least striking that Mrs Thyssen said that during that exchange of views because we are asking from the Belgian and regional governments for Europe to make it easier to make such investments possible. I also remember Mrs Thyssen saying in committee in particular that for some countries investment in infrastructure is not so much important as investment in human capital, for example. She asked how this opening could only be made for investment in infrastructure while other countries might be interested in something else. Mrs Tyssen also said that we should stop saying that infrastructure cannot be included in the budget in several years' time. That is already possible at the moment. Think of the Oosterweel dossier that is important for Flanders and Antwerp. This can already be spread over a number of years. It indicated the seven-year period that could be used to include that specific project in the multi-annual investment programme. I would have liked to hear how the federal government sees it. What is your specific strategy towards Europe? In what way do you intend to incorporate these investments more flexibly into the budgetary rules, given the position of the European Commission and the Member States which leave little room for relaxation of the rules? I also have a budgetary question on this. It has been mentioned a number of times that the regions are very important partners in this regard. Ten percent of the investments come from the federal government, the rest from the Regions and the Communities. They are therefore a fundamental and necessary partner in order to achieve the story. In your explanatory statement, you mentioned the concert spéciale with the regions by the end of the year to discuss the investment pact and to take them in the bathtub. Has it already been agreed with the regions which projects they can bring into consultation? In what way will it be agreed with them? How many projects can they contribute? What kind of projects? To what extent will there possibly be a key on the contribution of federal government and regional authorities and the share of the investment pact? How do you intend to do that? I would also like to ask you a few questions about energy. Energy is also an important part of the investment pact. You yourself referred to the link with the Energy Pact. It is right to link these two together. On behalf of the CD&V Group, I would like to emphasise that we are calling for a very clear link between the energy pact and the investment pact. You know that we have tabled a resolution on this matter in Parliament which will be discussed in the Committee on Industry. We hope that the energy pact can be concluded quickly. The investment pact also offers an additional momentum to achieve the link with the energy pact. We must make clear choices in the investment pact, linked to the energy pact. A budget fund, the Energy Transition Fund, set up in 2015 is stranded by a compensation paid to the State for the extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2. It should also serve to encourage and support research and the development of innovative projects in the field of energy, in particular energy production and storage. Recently, the Royal Decree of 9 May 2017 laying down the conditions of use of the Energy Transition Fund was finally published. What projects might be in preparation from the Energy Pillar in the Investment Pact that fit within the financing from the Energy Transition Fund? Providing investment security is certainly a very important priority in terms of energy investment for a number of partners in the energy landscape. We have to look in particular at the wind farms, on which there have been other noises in recent months, including from Secretary of State De Backer. The possible withdrawal of concessions for offshore wind farms could lead to uncertainty for investors. Legal certainty and long-term investment security are of course crucial, in the Investment Pact and for investors themselves, to attract private investment. From the point of view of the legal certainty of investments and the investment pact, how do you see the construction of the future wind farms? With regard to the timing and further handling of the dossier, when do you intend to place the first milestones of the Investment Pact? I have just heard you say that Parliament has an important role to play in monitoring and monitoring the investment pact. That could be a good approach. I would like to refer in particular to an experience in the previous legislature, when I myself was in the Flemish Parliament. In the Public Works Committee, every six months there was a progress report of the entire BAM and Oosterweel file. Every six months, the progress of infrastructure investment was discussed in the committee. This could be a good approach to monitoring progress in the Investment Pact. Every six months, for example, progress could be discussed in committee. In this way one can also get the input of the different members. That is my recommendation on progress reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u13	Prime Minister, first of all, I wonder if there is a little Keynesian touch in the inspiration of this plan, which would contradict the ultra-liberal policy that you have been pursuing for the past three years. When we look at the sectors covered by this plan that have been, for some, the victims of an absolute or relatively harsh de-financing by your government - rail, health, the energy transition that has been very neglected, defence, justice - we can ask ourselves a double question. Firstly, is there not a posteriori recognition of the erroneous nature of the political choices made so far by this government? We will remember, just to take this example, Minister Galant who was already burying the RER. Secondly, should this plan come to fruition, which we all seem to all hope for here, there is no risk of a mismatch between, on the one hand, a revalued infrastructure and, on the other, operating costs, and in particular staff costs, which are reduced as a matter of grief? Would there not be a hiatus between these two aspects? In concrete terms, how can more trains be driven with fewer railway workers within a redeployed railway infrastructure? Let us even take the example of the Defence and ignore the fact that at the PTB we are not for the replacement of the F-16s, because we believe that this is nothing virtuous, neither for peace, nor for social, nor for the economy. Beyond this debate, there is a gap in the military plans between investment in large equipment, worth several billion euros, and the reduced resources for personnel? Is there not a hiatus there? It would also be interesting to have more details on the respective roles of the private sector and the public. You may say I'm anticipating, but I think it's worth it, already at this point, to look into it. Let us take concrete cases, such as that of rail, which has been fairly public so far. In this context, will the private sector play a role? There are some PPPs, even if they are quite small at the moment. At the level of the energy sector in Belgium, the tradition is that many initiatives are left behind in this area. Are public direct investment planned in this sector? That's how I get to the fifth axis. I wonder what this axis covers in health research and development. Is it again a question of increasing the enormous and multiple aid that multinationals receive from the medicine? I am thinking here of the indirect subsidy granted to them through the exaggerated prices of medicines in Belgium. There are also regional subsidies, European subsidies, occupational discount exemptions, deductions for innovation income, etc. It's a long list. Is this an additional gift to the multinationals of the medicine or is it a measure that would bring social added value? As far as the budgetary aspects are concerned, I note that the $30 billion you announced on 1 April is not a fish and that this amount has even been doubled. Indeed, today we are talking about 60 billion. This represents about 15% of GDP. Even if one can consider that a party will be taken over by the private sector, what will be the impact on the budgetary balance and on the debt? What is your vision about this? How do you intend to manage the issue on a budget basis? You have presented the three pillars of this government: fiscal consolidation; what you call structural reforms and, as far as I am concerned, gifts to capital; and investment policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u15	I don't see the connection. How is this managed on a budgetary basis? After the abyss of the tax shift - of which I don't know what part goes to the wages -...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u17	Yeah, but they're lost. What you're giving...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u19	This is not really the debate of the day. What you give on the one hand, you take back on the other by increasing taxes on consumption and by destroying public services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u20	Mr Van Hees, let us continue on the theme of the National Pact for Strategic Investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u21	Mr President, I am trying to do this, but the Prime Minister is preventing me from doing so. The question is whether, in carrying out this investment policy, there are any margins for your structural reform policy? In concrete terms, after the abyss of the tax shift - which is still not budgeted - is corporate tax reform still possible if we really want to pursue an investment policy? What will the cost be? What effort will this require from the population? More austerity? I think there are budgetary choices to be made. You tend to want to do everything, but who's going to pay? That's the question. Are there any additional social cuts to be feared? On funding methods and public-private partnerships, we will not really agree. Indeed, I think that, in general, costs and risks are for the public and profits for the private sector. On other forms of financing such as activation of savings, you said you didn't want to talk about it. That's too bad because it would be interesting to know a little more. What formula do you remember about the activation of savings? You said there were several of them. I would like to know them, even if there is no definitive choice of one of them. You're talking about "the dynamic management of the state's heritage," that's nicely said, but another formula would be to say "sell family jewels". What heritage features are covered? We know that, for BNP, the operation is already done and that Belfius is targeted directly. What other heritage features are covered? Is it Proximus, bpost, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Is there already, if these are choices, at least leads? What is the problem of losing control of public policy tools? In fact, if we were to pursue a banking policy to mobilize people's savings, it would go through public banks. Therefore, this loss of control of public tools may be a problem. Another problem is that, in view of the low current rates, it is known that debt is cheaper than giving up dividends from certain public holdings. The Minister of Finance recognizes this. Since this project is a bit of a European inspiration, should the debt criteria not be reviewed? From the time it costs less to be in debt rather than to resell shares that earn dividends, it would be better to follow the cheapest budget option. There is a certain logic, you will recognize, to say that we choose the cheapest option. This requires negotiation with the European Commission. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. Many things are, of course, still vague, so there are still a lot of questions. I hope that everything will become more concrete so that we can follow up on the dossier in Parliament. A lot has already been said. I shall therefore confine myself to a number of observations and three questions. In your opinion, the investment of EUR 30 billion, which you are aiming at, can be divided into two large groups: a number of already planned investments, which you want to accelerate, and a number of new investments. I hope that the test of whether or not something is part of the investment pact is that the initiative benefits the Belgian economy. If we can believe the newspapers, the EUR 3.5 billion allocated to aircraft would also be included in the investment pact. However, the contribution of the Belgian economy would be minimal. Apart from the fact that we are opposed to this investment, I believe that the test of the Belgian economy must certainly be carried out. I am not talking about the EUR 700 million for nuclear power stations. That amount must be invested in order to keep it open for longer. It is very difficult to claim that it is an additional investment in the Belgian economy. It is, moreover, much less a sustainable investment and, hopefully, contradicts the energy pact, which must come at the end of this year. My question is therefore whether this test, which I think is fundamental, will happen. I would also like to make a comment about the consultation with Europe, on the one hand, and the consultation between the regions, on the other. We had the European Commission's comments on the budget here a while ago. The European Commission's clear position was that investments in Europe, and certainly those in Belgium, are inadequate, as you pointed out. Moreover, public investment, i.e. public investment, is even more undervalued and the European Commission believes that it must be encouraged. When the public investments are mainly made by the Regions and the cities and municipalities and less by the federal government, as the previous paragraph also pointed out, the question arises how you want to continue to stimulate these investments in consultation with the Regions and the cities and municipalities through incentive measures. In recent years, there has also been a lot of low investment at this last level of policy, because cities and municipalities simply no longer have the opportunity to do so. This is, of course, directly linked to our discussion with Europe about a flexible attitude towards investment in the budget and its distribution over several years rather than having to book them all in one year. In the absence of an agreement with Europe, there has also been no agreement with the regions on the Stability Pact. The question is whether this agreement will be possible in the future for the Investment Pact and in what way you will do so. Thirdly, when can we actually get the new proposals? Is the timing fixed until the end of the year? I understand that you are prepared to come to Parliament with this every time. Are you saying that you will create a separate article in the budget for each chapter, if that is technically possible, and that Parliament will then have to find out where the new investments are? Or are you prepared to have a discussion with Parliament on the new issues? I do not go into the question of mobility in more detail. There are many possible investments in mobility. In recent years, you have always saved on investments in mobility, not to mention SNCB. You're not the only one in there. The Flemish government has also saved a lot at De Lijn. There are not only opportunities to invest in the Belgian economy, but also opportunities to improve mobility tout court. Let me give you a small example: the mobility plan in Ghent has increased the use of public transport there. That's where a direct connection was found. This means that investing in public mobility will be very important. I am not going to go into the energy pact either. Once again, I hope that you will take sustainability and investment in the Belgian economy as the starting point. However, we will not be able to assess this until you come here with your proposals. We are anxious to await the proposals and hope that they will be a little more concrete than what you have said today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u23	Mr President, in addition to the announcement of the figure, it remains relatively vague for the time being. That gives us the opportunity, Prime Minister, perhaps to remedy this and give us some impetus. It is no secret to you that our group has a particular interest in this issue and in this initiative. I believe that my speech at the State of the Union on this aspect was by far the most enthusiastic in the whole hemisphere, even more enthusiastic than in the majority parties. There is still that enthusiasm about the initiative and the need for it. I think it is important to repeat this. For us it was, after all, a shift that was noticed everywhere in Europe. From a one-sided discourse and a one-sided focus on saving and budgetary orthodoxy one finds that the minds are ripening and that one will have to evolve into a new balance, with much more focus on investment. On the right too, what has been set up in connection with the Stability Pact and the ideas underlying such initiatives have not always helped us forward. As has already been said, the study of the Planning Bureau is actually a wake-up call. It's an apple to everything and everyone in this country not to make a tooth, but a whole tooth. In recent decades, there has been a relatively high level of public debt, which is undeniable, and in fact little public investment. In fact, net in terms of disinvesting, we are investing in this country. We are patching up tunnels, but the new, large projects, net investment in infrastructure, remain out. This is linked to a third reason why I believe this initiative is absolutely necessary, the question of what our dream is in this country. Kennedy once wanted to go to the moon. What's our moon landing? What is our ambition? What's our plan? That's what this country craves. We are asking for such an initiative and have organised a number of activities around it, including in this Chamber. We have had a very interesting conversation about this with, among others, Marc Leemans, Jonathan Holslag, Karel Van Eetvelt, a wide range of civil society actors, with academics, employers, employees. The same ambition is heard everywhere. The question is whether what is on the table meets these expectations. Is that what our country needs? Mr Prime Minister, with a certain understanding of the relatively difficult situation in which you sometimes find yourself, I must say that your plan does not meet the expectations for the time being. Unlike other countries, we have no president. There will be another government next week, together with a new parliamentary majority, and we will get to work. We don't. We have a lot of obstacles to overcome, but I think that this can be done with a strong story and a strong ambition, provided that you remedy a number of system errors in what is ahead for the time being. I will focus on this, not on breaking it down, but the framework must be good before it can be properly operationalised. I see at the moment five problems in what is ahead, five things that we want to remedy together with you. First of all, one cannot ignore the fact that what is for the time being is a federal plan. It's a plan that has to focus on federal powers. But an investment plan that wants to be strong and exhaustive and with a vision that our country is desperate for, must be a national plan, together with the Regions and Communities with an important role and instruments for local authorities. That is not there for the time being, for two reasons: either your powers of persuasion are insufficient, or the other entities are not sufficiently willing to register in such an exercise. In any case, we must remedy this point. It should evolve from a plan with strictly federal powers to a national plan, including Regions and Communities. Secondly, you have proposed a number of projects. I looked up the table. I was actually hoping to get a little more insight into that today, but that has not yet been achieved. You have listed a number of projects and the amount of EUR 30 billion is linked to them. However, I do not see the strategic vision, the objectives underlying the listing of these projects. I am not enthusiastic about each of these projects. The Communists I heard just now say that they are enthusiastic about it, which means that they still legitimize the purchase of combat aircraft, that they are extremely enthusiastic about the prison of Haren and that the upgrading of nuclear power stations is part of their social project; but not mine. All these projects are in your excel file. Some of these things can still be said to be public investment, although some of them include private investment. However, I miss the corns, I miss the dream and the strategic vision behind these projects. You say that we may be heading for a difficult discussion because we are so critical. 'Cause I can see you sighing and shaking. Well, it is my ambition to make the plan better, hence this argument. I could have explained this a few weeks ago. A third point I hope to be able to remedy with you is that I will not find the investment plan in the rest of your government work for the time being. The energy pact has already fallen. Where is the coherence between, on the one hand, the ambition to make an investment plan and, on the other hand, the path that is currently underway, or rather is not in progress? Let me give you another example. I read today that our Finance Minister has the absolute ambition to turn Brussels into the financial capital. That can be a legitimate ambition, but if that is his ultimate ambition, why is it not part of the national investment plan, of the strategic vision? One more example. In the budgetary work, in the budgetary tables, the search is for traces of the investment plan. On the one hand, you have the ambition to do so, and there I support you for hundreds of ten per cent of the budget, but on the other hand, I wonder where that ambition can be found in the work of the government. Fourthly, I believe that it is a good thing that you have found a number of people from society and from the business community willing to share the vision and to give oxygen to that trajectory. These are people with whom I sometimes disagree ideologically, but whom I do think it is a good thing to bring them around the table. However, the strategic committee could and should be much more representative, Prime Minister. This would increase the social acceptance of the pathway. For example, it is not good that there is no employee representation in the strategic committee. Civil society must also be brought on board to strengthen the cockpit. Fifthly, you are talking about 30 billion and you are also announcing 60 billion, but that is a great deal of recycling of decided policies for the time being. If you say you're not, so much better. This is an excellent project that I hope will succeed, but the things that are in the bubbles for the time being are things that have appeared before and have been decided. It is therefore mainly at this time, hopefully, that there will be a change in the recycling of decided policies. These are five points of the pact that still have to be met. I have the following questions. As far as the debate on resources is concerned, the European Commission, for example, is very strongly advertising the idea of a national incentive bank, which has not yet emerged. This could be part of a good governance structure, with a political vision on the one hand and an independent, more technical-financial balance of projects on the other. Europe is enthusiastic about this idea and would like it to be applied at national level. An inspiring model is that of the German KfW. Are you fond of that model? Would you like to put that on your feet? There is the possibility of converting Belfius, a bank currently in public hands, into a national incentive bank. What is the real mission of the strategic committee? That's not entirely clear to me. What's the timing with which it works? Furthermore, I have already called for a stronger involvement of all political families. This seems to me to be a way of broadening the social and political support of this plan. There are different models to think of. I made a plea at the Conference of Presidents for working meetings with the recognised political families and this on a structural basis. That way we can write that plan together. It is perhaps a way that is rather atypical, but perhaps even more efficient than the Consultative Committee because parties, who are less inclined to co-operation federalism, are placed in a federal environment in this way in the minority. Another less voluntaristic and less creative way, but structurally valuable is the suggestion of Mr Smaers to arrive at a structural progress report. So, Prime Minister, I have three questions and five strategic concerns about matters that need to be remedied from the belief that this country deserves a dream and that it also has all the assets to realize that dream. This country deserves politicians who put a megaphone on it. This is not happening at the moment. We hope to have a plan that does radiate and convey this before 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank the various speakers from the majority and the opposition who have spoken. I will try not to repeat what I said in the introduction because I think Mr Calvo has already answered a number of questions in my introduction. I will focus on the various points in order to react to the elements that have been carried out by the various parliamentarians. First of all, the question of budget and financing, a package of questions related to money. How do we pay for all this? What is the public and private share? On this subject, several remarks to clarify the point I made in the introduction. From the point of view of budgetary technique, for the public participation component at the start of the federal authority, I would like to see transparency and clarity in order to foster the role of Parliament and this relationship with the government. Mr Dispa, you referred to the example of the Marshall Plan in which certain Marshall Plan budget lines were labeled. I would prefer to avoid this scheme if it is technically possible because this scheme of labelling does not, in fact, give great clarity in the parliamentary work on implementation, the monitoring of the project. So I would prefer a section as such in the state budget. We have to see if, technically, this is feasible or not. As has been mentioned, and this is a good idea, it would make it possible to have a regular and specific report on the investment pact but also in the context of budgetary work, to see, for each of the projects in the various fields, what are the progress, the achievements, the ambitions, the budget after the budget. Again on the financial and budgetary question, I confirm that the concern and desire is to put in place a dynamic management of the State's participations. The fine example is indeed the decision that was taken in the context of BNP Paribas, the sale of 25% of our stakes. Why? Because this has an automatic effect on our debt: two billion euros in this case for BNP Paribas. This puts us in a position of negotiation with the European Union and of budgetary trajectory. This is one of the parameters that can be used to legitimise the fact that we are putting resources for investment, while at the same time paying attention to the weakness that we still have today, which is our high debt ratio in relation to gross domestic product. I confirm that I am working with the government to see if we can take additional measures, perhaps in the framework of the thematic Ministerial Councils and budgetary arbitration, in a logic of activation of savings. A number of Members have suggested certain slopes here. We are looking at what concrete measures we can take to boost private investment in order to be coherent with the political will to strengthen investment in general. Among the avenues to be explored, the fiscal lever can of course be used, as can financial products. I do not want to be more specific at this stage, because we will have an opportunity to discuss it here in the weeks and months to come, as soon as the government has chosen its directions. This might indicate that alongside the stricto sensu pact, further arbitration is desirable to maintain consistency with the philosophy and momentum we want to give to the investment plan. That is the budget and the question of funding. I come to the second point, which is in relation to the first. Relations with Europe. I'm feeling a sense of fear. I'm confirming the analysis. The national pact is ambitious, but will it be possible at European level? Are there any brakes at European level? Yes, today there are no doubt those brakes at European level. However, we must have the will and ambition to do everything and be convincing to win a certain margin at European level. This is also in line with our budgetary strategy, our stability programme, where we are trying to build up and strengthen economic reasoning with the support of the Länder. What is my reasoning about this, what comments do I wish to make? Firstly, it is moving at the European level. My analysis is that the situation today regarding the perception of the European Commission and our partner countries within Europe is not the same as it was two or three years ago. There's been a positive evolution. This is what we feel in our discussions with Europe in the context of Belgium's budgetary commitments, but also with the other European countries. This does not mean that we would receive spontaneous applause at European level for our analysis and our strategy, but a plea is possible and necessary. This is a fortiori necessary because our reasoning is fully consistent with the European strategy in the framework of the Juncker vision. The Juncker vision is also an ambition at European level to boost European investment. What's my strategy, my approach? I advocate a scientific approach. For example, I am counting on the task of our strategic committee to strengthen our argument. My feeling, after the many conversations I have had at European level, is that there could be openness provided that Belgium is particularly active in rational reasoning, for example on the pay-back effects, in order to prove that if we choose certain sectors, for certain concrete projects, we are convinced that there is a very strong chance that this will have a productive effect on growth, employment and job creation. In this perspective, which was a comment by one of the MPs, we are trying, with the reasoning value for money and the support of the Planning Bureau and the National Bank, to get certainty project per project that the financial technique has already been adapted and is pertinent. That's the answer to your question just now. Our ambition is to develop as convincing an argument as possible for each of the themes and projects, so that the European Commission accepts our proposal of thirty or sixty billion. We will have to demonstrate, on a project-by-project basis, that each of them has been judiciously chosen and proved productive. In this way, the Commission will be able to take them into account in its budgetary control. I hope, through this answer, to be a little more precise about our approach. It is a question of developing a method that can strengthen our arguments and our strength of conviction and that aims to go beyond the mere framework of this legislature. This is another argument that could convince the European Commission. This is the feeling that I draw from the many contacts we have had with the various European bodies. There is another important point at European level. In recent weeks, I have indicated a few times that I feel there is a momentum at European level for a new European impetus. This can be an important part of the European momentum. What is the difficulty of deepening the European Union? The deepening of the European Union is important and fundamental. It must therefore be done as quickly as possible. What, however, is the difficulty at European level? There is a contradiction between two approaches. Some Member States believe that we should show solidarity, for example with a mutualisation of the debts of the various European countries. Others believe that this cannot be done and that we should be primarily responsible. We must find a balance between solidarity and responsibility at European level. I note that some countries such as Belgium do have problems with their debt levels. However, this is not the case everywhere in Europe. So with a more global approach there might be a possibility or a chance of a stronger role of public authorities in a logic of investment. That's my plea. In the discussions I have had with other European leaders, such as Mrs Merkel, Mr Macron and Mr Mark Rutte, I have on several occasions argued in favour of a reasoning in which important decisions could be taken in the direction of a deepening of the European Union, with an important part in the choice of investment, but with an entry into force based on progress in the structural reforms made by a number of countries. Let me tell you what everyone needs to know. If Germany has been so reluctant, in recent years, to progress towards deepening economic and monetary union, it was probably because it considered that some large European countries, which I will not mention here, were not implementing reforms that were sufficiently structural, ambitious for the labour market and for competitiveness. If a commitment is made by some significant European states, it could, in my view, have an effect in terms of the ability to speed up a decision-making process, particularly in the context of deepening economic and monetary union, which could have an interesting impact on structural investment from Belgium. That is the second aspect, namely the European dimension. A third important point, which almost everyone has talked about, is the role of the Länder and of the local authorities, the municipalities and the provinces. Since day one, that is an important point in my view. What is reality? I'll be very open. On 16 September I placed this item on the agenda of the Consultative Committee. I have noted that the Länder were in principle in favour of it. I repeat, in principle. However, the modalities were not accepted. I understand they've been kept on reservation. I have tried to understand the fear and understanding that the logic in which the federal government would assume leadership was indeed not in line with the institutional reality of our country. I didn't mean to. I've been clear about that, too. Rather, my intention was to create a boost, after which everyone can accept their responsibilities and we can work as much as possible, pragmatically, with common sense on a number of concrete points. What do I see after these open and sometimes informal talks with the Länder? I note a few months later that people are less reserved and that they are more enthusiastic about working together. This shows that the federalism of cooperation has worked well. In a few months, we were able to clarify the positions. Care was taken to avoid misunderstandings and misunderstandings. At the last concertation committee in April, we decided, together, to mandate a working group, precisely to involve the federated entities as concretely as possible, identifying the specific themes and projects within which, in their sovereignty, in their autonomy of will, in their freedom of appreciation, they believe that it is appropriate to work together within the framework of the investment pact. I don't force anyone. I don't coerce anyone. I simply make it possible to create a framework which, I think, will provoke emulation and will allow, by the force of reality, to understand on many subjects in terms of mobility, digital agenda, health, state authority, that there is an interest in working together, by common accord, each appreciating at every moment, whether he wants to mobilise financial means or not, whether he wants to make a decision or not. Everyone retains this total capacity for decision-making, appreciation of this, but at least there is a structural framework that allows the round table to be operational and where everyone can meet regularly to move the various subjects forward in common agreement, with common sense. This is the clarification of the role and place of the Regions, and therefore of the local authorities as well, since it is the Regions which have control over the local authorities and are often the subsidising power for the major projects carried by the local authorities. I can see that, for example, especially large cities have a very important place in this area and certainly in the light of the themes that have been selected. I'll be back in a few moments. Then I come to the role of Parliament. I confirm that I am a asking party and very open in terms of the modalities for working out good cooperation with Parliament. This is important to me, also in a European reasoning. This means strengthening and providing more legal certainty for the implementation of the strategy. In my view, it is not about a strategy for one legislative term. It is a strategy until 2030. It is therefore important that the consensus and support are as broad as possible. That is my hope and ambition. I'm not dreaming. I realise that we will not find consensus on all points and projects; I am aware of that. In a democracy and a parliament there are differences of opinion. I hope that the overall approach and, as far as possible, the concrete projects will receive broad support, wider than the logic of majority opposition. This would strengthen our position at European level and would strengthen legal certainty. This would also send out a good signal to private investors and, at the same time, a better strategy to attract more investment in our country. I hope, therefore, that the arrangements for cooperation between the government and Parliament will be effective. I appreciate the proposal for a report twice a year. That could be an interesting thought trail. This proposal, coupled with greater transparency in the budget, can also give Parliament more opportunities for a positive boost in the context of our concrete and strong ambition. I come to the issue of governance and the composition of the Strategic Committee. The six members of the Strategic Committee are not there as representatives of an institution or company. They are there for their personal experience in academic, institutional or economic life. I announced to the Consultation Committee that I was fully open, as part of a stronger involvement of the Regions, to expanding the Strategic Committee and adapting its membership. I do hope that we will find the formula to be able to involve the social partners and trade union representatives as soon as possible in this process. This remark is relevant. We will have to find this capacity to mobilize civil society actors and social actors. As regards the amount and the list of projects, I repeat what I have already said. I'd like to avoid any misunderstandings. The first list is an indicative list, not an exhaustive list. I admit that to a large extent they are not new projects. These are existing projects, which I believe should be speeded up. I can give many concrete examples of this. Think of the SNCB. There are many ambitious mobility projects that have been spoken of for decades, without concrete achievements. If the plan could provide a framework for speeding up the implementation and development of these projects, it would be positive. However, that is not enough. I want more than that. Mr Calvo, in this first list of thirty billion, it is quite natural that there is what you call recycling. But it is not recycling, we simply want to speed up existing projects by giving them an effect of boosting thanks to the pact and the ability of the various actors to push the issues in question. Secondly, these are new projects. I give you a few examples. In terms of energy, we believe that if we want to speed up the process of energy transition, we need to focus much more on energy storage, which we believe is one of the important problems. We must support research in this area. Within the framework of the Energy Transition Fund, we considered that this could be one of the topics for which, indeed, within the framework of the call for projects being launched, projects could be stimulated. This is a concrete example of a new project. At present, no concrete projects exist in relation to this. Resources were mobilized through funding from the Energy Transition Fund. These means exist. Should they be developed or adapted in the coming years? Why not? But here, we also rely on the Strategic Committee precisely to say to ourselves: "We think this is not enough; we need to do more or we need to do more in this type of field for the energy transition". This is a concrete example. I'll take another, nice example, namely the wind farms. We can provide a legal framework and legal certainty, which is not evident in these areas. In concreteo, I will take an example that I hope will sound nicely in the ears of our ecologist friends. When all the parks have become operational, they will be equivalent, in terms of production, to two nuclear power plants: 10% of our electricity consumption. It is not wrong to mobilize efforts in this regard! Of course, we will have to debate the ground, its conformity with European law, etc. It's a rather complex technical part. We have the ambition to say that there is a framework in which private investment can be stimulated that responds to a return effect, a job creation effect, and that responds to our environmental concern. We must be part of this process of openness. To give some examples in new projects, digital agenda, smart cities... This is also a result of the discussions I have had with others from the economic world, as well as with local authorities, with people with experience abroad. Space is here. It's a dream. It is ambitious to adopt a more global approach in the major cities and move towards smart cities in the form of pilot projects in a number of cities in Belgium. The question is then whether one is asking and whether there is the will of local politicians to join the smart city project? That is to say, using digitalization to improve the living environment. That's the reasoning. Ensure that mobility and transport are more appropriate. Ensure that, in a number of areas, the quality of services provided to the population and hence the living environment are improved through investment in the digital agenda. Another excellent example is cyber security. There are also new projects. We created the CCB just two years ago, a new and important instrument for the future. It is a good example where cooperation between public authorities and private investors is crucial. That's where I'm counting on new projects. And here I think that we should not be mistaken in the choices made on priority projects to increase cybersecurity; this is consistent with this ambition to promote the digital agenda as a lever for economic growth, for jobs. As far as the amounts are concerned, there is an initial list of EUR 30 billion. By the way, Mr Calvo, Haren's prison is not in this first list of thirty billion, contrary to what you have implied. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u25	I'm correcting the information because it's not taken over. What is correct, however, is Masterplan III in the ‘State authority' dimension. But we will have the opportunity to examine in more detail the list of projects, etc. I'll be right back to the amounts. After working extensively on this issue in recent weeks, and meeting with many interlocutors, I am convinced that between now and 2030, we must have the ambition to double this amount. We have a first list of thirty billion starting points, which is indicative. We have the ambition to mobilise public and private money in order to boost this amount. I believe that is possible because I feel a great enthusiasm for the economic sectors of our country in relation to this. When such a strategy of investment is developed, it mobilizes us to confirm investments... Either we confirm the investments that we had planned and which were not guaranteed 100%, or our investments will be increased and strengthened in the future. Our approach and our strategy are to do everything possible to make a strong plea for more private investment in a coherent logic. The approach in this Investment Pact is also to bring projects into line, to make them coherent with each other. There will be a more efficient return if projects are brought into line with each other. If everyone in their corner, private actors, public actors – and these are numerous in Belgium – invests with their own priority and strategy, there will necessarily be loss of resources. They are made consistent, and efficiency and effectiveness are enhanced. It is also the ambition that is pursued through the process. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is some of the things I wanted to tell you. I may have missed one aspect or the other, but I think I have answered the main questions and reflections that have been asked. In conclusion, with one word, it is a strong ambition. I am very motivated to mobilize the various governments of the country. There will be a lot of work, there is no magic wand. There is no doubt that we will have to work a lot in the coming months. I like Mr Dispa's approach, which says that we must try to get out of the logic of a playground and go in a logic of common sense where we try to work together in projects that go beyond the classical ideological divides. We must be mobilised with the ambition of regularly looking at what we have set ourselves as objectives and what we have achieved. I count heavily on Parliament to be able to support this ambitious and extremely necessary approach as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u26	Mr Prime Minister, the final word for the replies is, of course, up to Parliament. I would like to point out, however, that in the meantime a number of fellow Members want to begin the follow-up to the agenda. May I therefore ask that the replies be kept as short and witty as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. The Ecolo-Groen Group remains fully motivated by an ambitious public investment project. Our role is, of course, to push debate at Parliament level, to be constructive, to make suggestions to you; if necessary, to reorient you, to have an impact on the decisions that will be taken. That is what drives our interventions and proposals. In your introduction, you mentioned one point that I would like to return to, namely citizen participation. I did not mention it earlier, but it is nevertheless particularly dear to us. In my view, measures could be imagined, which would be particularly positive for all our citizens. Indeed, we know how much they are increasingly asking for participation in decisions on public projects. We could therefore imagine that part of the amount, some hundreds or tens of millions of euros out of the 30 or 60 billion, would be spent on consulting our fellow citizens in order to know what types of projects they would like to see put in place. As has been done in some cities – Paris, for example – one could imagine that part of the envelope would be made available (via an internet tool or other), so that citizens could debate, propose and vote for projects or sectors in which to invest. This would be an extremely positive signal to bring together the 11 million Belgians, beyond all the public authorities in the country and the various levels of power (Europe, federal, Community, regional, cities and municipalities). Citizen participation is a matter of particular interest to us. We will remain attentive and I imagine we will meet again before 21 July for your presentation to Parliament of the report on the cost-opportunities analysis that you have requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u28	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Our country needs this positive project, which is already generating enthusiasm beyond the majority/opposition divide. It is also, above all, the symbol of a country that wants to commit itself and not only invest public money from the different levels of power (federal state, federated entities, local authorities), but also mobilize the actors of the private world. Here, too, trust can be put forward. I think everyone will want to be part of this positive momentum. Of course, you can count on our group to be part of this positive momentum and to support Parliament's involvement in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u29	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for the explanations he has given us and for the enthusiasm he has shown for this important project. At this stage, I would simply like to introduce an additional element: a concept that has been mentioned little is that of evaluation. This may seem a bit premature when we talk about 2030 prospects, but I believe, on the contrary, that it is from the beginning of the process that a method of assessment must be established. This must, of course, be an objective, rigorous and external method to decision-makers. This is very important because we are talking about significant amounts and a large-scale mobilising process. It would be regrettable to note at the end of the period that, in the end, one missed an opportunity or that the means might have been misused. And then, I also think that this can be an argument to be put forward by the Commission. The Prime Minister referred to the budgetary argument that is being developed. If we are able to convince that a rigorous evaluation is being put in place so that the return effects are not only a pious wish but that there is really an objectivation in terms of job creation, for example, or a whole series of other criteria, I believe that this can also help convince the Commission. I would like to take this as evidence of the analysis that has been made in the Finance Committee, in particular, on expenditure on research and development. The Commission services have shown that, compared to other European countries, our public expenditure on research and development can be large but is ultimately less effective than in other countries on the basis of a whole set of criteria. It's a lesson we need to learn. An evaluation framework must now be established so that, as the process proceeds, necessary reorientations can be made or, at least, we can make sure that we are moving in the right direction. This is the element that I wanted to stress, looking forward to being able to take stock, at regular intervals, of the implementation of this pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my absence: I had been asked for a vote in another committee. Our collaborator summarized your answers. Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for hearing our comments on the involvement of the Regions and, possibly, the social partners. I also thank you for your commitment to involve Parliament in the discussion. This is obviously essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u31	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister. In any case, I support your ambition to make it happen with the European Commission and the budgetary integration into the European pathway. I am convinced, like you, that it will not be easy, but I hope that the approach you intend to adopt can be successful, including with regard to the integration of the investment programme into your own internal stability programme. In addition to integrating the European pathway, there is therefore another challenge that will have to be considered internally in the Consultation Committee with the regions. In any case, I wish you every success. It would be good if you also agreed to propose six-monthly progress reports in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u32	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Of course, we are still hungry for a number of things, because everything is not yet very concrete. I hold you to the commitment to continue to inform Parliament, for which I thank you. The main difficulty will be to implement an investment pact within our Belgian structures, together with the Regions, local cities and municipalities, and then bring it to Europe. I am particularly hungry when it comes to the criteria for growth of the Belgian economy and sustainability. I hope that you will continue to take this as a starting point in the investment pact. The fact that you retain existing projects which are absolutely not sustainable and which do not contribute at all to the promotion of the Belgian economy is, of course, not very positive. We will look at the proposals with a positive attitude when there are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u33	Prime Minister, as time is ticking, I will react to one point. You have advocated a scientific approach without ideological considerations, at least I suppose. I'd like to talk to you about the energy transition. What are the respective roles of the public and the private sector in this area? If we analyse this objective scientifically in Belgium, we must note that we cannot limit ourselves to "stimulating private initiative", to repeat your remarks. In this respect, private initiative is a failure. Belgium is nowhere in terms of energy transition, simply because we have given blind confidence to private initiative. The last "coach" with Minister Marghem still shows how far we have not advanced by an iota. That is why it must be recognised that, when the private sector has shown its inability to manage a situation positively - it is the scientific assessment that we can draw from the energy transition in Belgium - the State has a role to play. This is the scientific analysis that needs to be done in this part of your Strategic Plan. I note that the economic sectors are enthusiastic. Given the decline in purchasing power, I understand that you wanted profit margins on public demand rather than on household demand. However, this plan should not be a lucrative opportunity for some. As far as the energy transition is concerned, I believe it is essential to take stock of the failure of this policy, which merely stimulates private initiative, as you said earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u34	Prime Minister, I remain hungry. It is also our task to encourage you to speed this up. More than I expected after your head shakes during my speech, you have also indicated your desire to remedy a number of points. I have noted that you recognise that the strategic committee may need enlargement and that it may be more representative. That is a good thing. I have noted that you are committed to achieving greater transparency in several projects, which I and others have raised, because we think that is important. I have heard from you a commitment to a parliamentary succession. I would like the parliamentary succession to consist of more than just a notary to record the state of play and that we are really trying to cooperate actively in this area. In my opinion, steps must be taken in the coming months to develop a number of new instruments and resources. Activating savings has been one of our spearheads in our journey. There are a lot of possibilities, especially at a time when the classic instruments produce little or no return. The involvement of our fellow countrymen in such a large investment project also allows a lot of resources to be mobilised. Look at the success of the Letermebon at the time. It is therefore a challenge to do better. If this is linked to a social project, it must be able to work more and better. You did not comment on the suggestion about the international incentive and coordination bank. I'd like to invite you to take a look at that. It seems to me to be a very useful financial instrument. It is also necessary to develop a strategic vision. In which country do we want to wake up in 2030? This is perhaps our main criticism of what is going on for the time being: I miss the cohesion, the cornseed. What are our objectives? Those old nuclear power plants shouldn't be there. It is just an example, but it is a very concrete example, to mention the shortcomings of what is currently in the pipeline. Finally, on cooperation federalism, I must be less diplomatic than you. I invite you not to be too diplomatic in this respect. Regions and communities must actively sit around the table. I don't care about the Prime Minister's ego. For the citizens of our country it does not matter whether it is a plan of Michel, Bourgeois or Magnette. It has to be a plan of all of us. If the regions continue to lag behind to participate in the project, know that at federal level there are groups and political families who want to participate very actively in it. Our group will not stop encouraging you and coming up with proposals, because it can be firmer than what is ahead for the time being. I therefore hope that you will regard our statements as an encouragement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic685x.u35	Thank you all for your contribution and the Prime Minister for his explanation. The theme will certainly be discussed in the coming weeks and months.
