ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again it has sown blind fanaticism, falsehood and hatred, death and destruction. On Monday evening, our British neighbours were struck by a terrorist attack, this time in Manchester. Among the victims are young people and children. 22 dead and dozens wounded, that's the provisional tragic balance. Our thoughts go out to the victims and we share in the grief of their families. Families with parents who will never see their child again, wounded who will carry the scars and trauma forever. This tragic event reminds us that the fight against terrorism must remain the central priority in Europe, but also in all parts of the world. It is our values, our way of life, our cultural model that we must defend. Our democracies must stand by and take the necessary action. Nothing should be neglected in order to give itself the means to eradicate this scourge which is in our democratic societies. On behalf of the Chamber, I sent a telegram to Mrs Alison Rose, Ambassador of the United Kingdom. I'll read it to you: "Following the terror attack in Manchester Arena this Monday, I would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims, to the members of the House of Commons and to the British people. This blast shows once again that human life has no value for fanatics who seek to achieve their twisted goals. The Belgian House of representations firmly condemns this barbaric act of violet and expresses its solidarity with your country in these tragic moments. This appalling event underlines once again the need for the democratic world to fight decisively together against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the night before yesterday Great Britain was hit by a terrible attack in Manchester. Once again, terrorists have literally and figuratively attacked our model of society. The toll was awfully high. More than twenty people who wanted to enjoy a concert carefree on a night off let their lives in a horrible way. There were also children and that makes the suffering even harder to carry. On behalf of the government, I would like to express our deepest sympathy to the British people. Britain has always been a very important partner in the fight against terrorism and violent extremism. Of course, we will continue this intensive collaboration at bilateral and multilateral level. Before observing a minute of silence as a sign of respect for the victims of the Manchester bombing and their families, I would like to add this. We must never give in to terrorists. Let's not get into their game. We must not change our way of life. On the contrary, let us continue to assert our democratic values and standards loud and clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u4	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you for a moment's silence in I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u5	Mr President, as you know, our colleague Nawal Ben Hamou works for the prosperity of our country and that of his family. This will be his last intervention before continuing the work undertaken approximately nine months ago. I therefore wanted to allow myself, before his speech, to congratulate her already. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last December the road police were already unable to carry out the blood alcohol tests during Operation BOB due to a lack of staff. Road accidents, it should be recalled, have caused 1,300 deaths and more than 100,000 injuries in the last two years. In the absence of staff, the daily security of citizens is not guaranteed. There is a particularly high shortage of personnel in the road police force: between 16 and 42 per cent, if the figures are analysed province by province. None of them reach the number of police officers set by the organizational framework. You know that is also the case in many other police services. We are constantly denouncing him. This situation is indeed the result of your austerity policy, carried out at the expense of the security of all. Today, the deficit is 2,800 police officers, a situation that will deteriorate with retirements. If nothing is done, there will be between 4,500 and 5,000 policemen. Minister, raising the standard to 1,600 recruits after lowering it is not enough to fill this shortage. What steps do you intend to take to solve this problem? How do you intend to bridge the gap between the French- and Dutch-speaking provinces in this area, in order to ensure the safety of all?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u7	Mrs Ben Hamou, first of all my congratulations before the facts because I will not have the opportunity, I think, immediately afterwards! Even though the problem you have just raised is very real, I must contradict you: the number of victims on the roads is decreasing even though it is still significant. We will certainly not reduce efforts, but the numbers are shrinking, that's the good news. Moreover, under this legislature, while savings in the police sector have been stopped, which have lasted for years, there are still significant deficits in some federal police services, but we are catching up. As you said, I recruited 1,600 people last year who are still in schools. You know as well as I do that training lasts at least a year. The recruits will soon graduate. This year, there will be 1,400 recruitments and again in 2018 1,400 recruitments. You know very well that at the request of the unions, among others the road police unions, the cuts were stopped in the budget, which freed up 15 million recurrent euros which will be used this year for equipment, vans and cars and for additional recruitment for the road police, which will bring results in terms of capacity next year and years. I am aware of the problem and we are tackling it, as we are doing for all the problems that we inherited from previous governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u8	Your answers, Minister, do not hide the discomfort caused by these figures. First, they fall at a time when you pass a text that will privatize a series of police missions. Secondly, they show that the distribution of staff is uneven in the south and north of the country. Finally, it is only the visible part of the iceberg, since this shortage of staff is rife throughout the federal police force. In these circumstances, it is difficult not to read in your policy a hidden agenda aimed first at making use of private security services, then at regionalizing our police or, in any case, dismantling entire services. These are practices that my group strongly denounces. And here I am speaking to the elected representatives of the MR, who are complicit in this policy and will have to answer for it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u9	Mr President, Minister, after the attacks on our territory a year ago, your government took a number of measures to counter this. Let me make it clear from the outset, Minister: we support these measures. One of the measures was the so-called Channel Plan, to show at least who lives in Brussels and whether there are no safe houses for gangsters and terrorists. We are very pleased and very proud that your police services have done what you had foreseen in that Channel Plan, namely a thorough residence check. Today we have a lot of parliamentary questions ahead and let them record that they are not so satisfied with the follow-up given to their excellent work. The police services are indeed checking whether there is an address fraud, whether gangsters and terrorists could find a safe house on our territory, but they are not being followed by the Brussels administrative services in this regard. You heard that complaint from your police. You are also more or less competent for the administrative services in our country. What means do you have and would you like to use to respond to the legitimate complaints of our policemen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u10	Mr President, Mr Penris, I am glad that you are also enthusiastic about the Channel Plan. More and more people are getting excited about the Channel Plan. In the beginning it was very critical, but the criticism is gradually getting away and municipalities are coming to ask me if they can join the Channel Plan, which is, of course, always very kindly received. You referred to a real problem. After police officers do what they are asked to do, i.e. do office checks, administrative follow-up must of course be given when malpractices are applied. You should know that we have set the Channel Plan in motion in steps. We started in Molenbeek and Vilvoorde. I can give you Molenbeek as an example of good practice. Madam Mayor will be able to confirm that we have indeed identified a lot of residence fraud or wrong registrations there. The municipal administration has assumed its responsibilities in this area and opened vacancies for three level A people. The Administration of the Interior has promised support to Molenbeek in this respect. They have accepted that promise, which makes us follow what the police people are doing in a raging fashion, including administratively. My competence is the competence of the National Registry and is not a power over the way the municipal administration works. However, the problem you are raising is a real problem, which I also take to heart. My offer therefore remains, also for the other municipalities, the same offer I made to Molenbeek and Molenbeek. The same offer remains valid for the other municipalities, namely that the administration of the Interior can provide support when there is a capacity shortage in the municipalities, which I can imagine. Suddenly, a mass of corrections have to be made to the population register. I can therefore imagine that this could lead to a temporary problem of capacity. I offer the same offer to all the Brussels municipalities as we did for Molenbeek. I hope that this offer will be accepted with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u11	Mr President, Minister, your party had a wonderful slogan in the elections: Thinking, Dare, Doing. Do you think, you have even taken over some of our thoughts, for which thanks. You also dare, there are still a few stormers in your party and they are also welcome to mine. As far as things are concerned, I would like to give you the word of The Strangers, because we are both fans of that group: we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we want to do it, we
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my thoughts go to all the victims of the Manchester bombing and to their families. Minister, this morning in the press, you referred to the measures taken in Belgium to combat terrorism. You can easily talk about security and prevention measures at the national or local level. You say that radicalization can be very rapid and that we need to adapt by thinking about adopting another security strategy. On the other hand, I don't see anything, I don't read anything about places of radicalization. I have the impression that when we talk about places of worship – because that's what this is about – the subject is taboo and radicalization would only occur on the Internet. Two and a half years after Paris, a year after Brussels, even though we are moving forward in the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism, I see no measure that directly affects mosques. Yet it is a place of choice for some - I say some - to preach hatred and sharia. I say some, because all imams are fortunately not in this dynamic, but unfortunately there are, and no one can deny it, even if a certain political trend tries to persuade us otherwise and even if the media are very complacent in this matter. Mr Minister, the citizens would see it as a strong gesture and the faithful of the Muslim faith who condemn these atrocities would find nothing to be said about it. Minister, do you intend to take steps to intervene and inventory mosques and imams at risk? In case of positive control, what measures would you adopt?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u13	Mr President, Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, I, in turn, would like to express my sadness and condolences to the families of the victims and to the British government and parliament. This attack reminds us that, even in a country that is now well equipped to deal with terrorism, such a threat persists and that such attacks are still possible, attacks which are described as sophisticated and which, it seems, are not the work of lone wolves. Minister, I wanted to ask you two, three questions in the light of this attack. First, in view of the modus operandi of this attack which affected children, young teenagers, at the exit of a concert hall, is there no need to learn lessons and evaluate how we protect major events, public places, places where people are sometimes being massaged? Are you doing this assessment? Do you review or review the devices that are now in place in relation to this type of major events? Secondly, I would have liked to know if there was a connection between this character, this terrorist, and the Manchester cell in which Mohamed Abrini participated. Is there a connection? Third question. We know that this terrorist, it seems, was returning – in any case, that's what we read in the press – from Libya. Is this also a particular threat from returning women from Libya to our country? Are you aware of any returns from Libya? Fourth question. Are we participating in the British survey? Are there any developments emerging from Britain? Fifth question. I was surprised by the statements you made in the press this morning saying that there had been – one imagines since 22 March but you did not specify it – six to eight preparations for attacks that had been foiled in our country. So that's a figure I didn't know about in our committee of inquiry into terrorist attacks. Do you confirm this number? Can you tell us more? Have any arrests taken place? If we have managed to stop these attacks – and I think that's good news – what should we owe in particular? This also shows, and this is the worrying nature of this information that you are giving this morning, that the level of the threat is still extremely serious in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u14	Mr President, Minister, we have gathered once again at the beginning of this plenary session. During the Manchester bombing, children fell – they are not the first – under the blows of Islamic terrorists in Daesh. As you said, Mr President, we have expressed our solidarity and support for Britain in this ordeal that it is going through again today. Minister of the Interior, you spoke this morning and delivered an important message of resilience: "Let us continue to live, let us not be afraid, measures are taken to protect us!" In view of the particular situation in Manchester, parents legitimately ask themselves a number of questions. It will therefore no doubt be useful for you to come back to this Parliament with regard to the measures that are being taken. It will also be useful to give a certain amount of information about the canal that exists today as summer arrives. Indeed, many cultural events, festivals will be organized. What channel exists between your department and these organizations so that they can have all the information related to the security measures to be taken in connection with these activities? You said – this is an important message – that Belgium had been able to avoid between six and eight attacks. This means that our services are effective. The Belgian population must receive this message. It will probably also be a matter for the Minister of the Interior to give Parliament more complete information on these figures. Beyond what this government has been able to do in terms of new measures, beyond the work we are doing with Patrick Dewael in the committee of inquiry, all parties involved, to further advance our country on the road to improving our services against terrorism, it will be necessary to continue, Mr. Minister of the Interior, to invest in technology. I'll finish by that, Mr. President. In a number of countries, means are in place to detect the presence of explosives remotely. We participated, with Philippe Pivin and Jean-Jacques Flahaux and the MR, in a mission to Israel. I would also like to hear from you on the road ahead: technology against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country has, as you know, been at threat level three for almost two years. Sometimes you hear voices rising: shouldn't you lower the level now? But every week, or every fortnight, there are new reasons why this level of threat cannot be reduced. The proof that it's right is the events in Manchester. What's the threat? Threat level three is soft targets. Soft targets are the places and events where many people gather, and that's what happened in Manchester. I therefore believe that the OCAM analysis is correct and accurate. If we now reduce the level of threat, the risk would be too great. The measures taken by the Crisis Centre, proposed to and confirmed by the Government, are related to this type of threat. Mr Ducrame, Mr Dallemagne, you are asking me what the organizers of major festivals and cultural events should do. That's very clear. I sent this circular back to all local police. It's the same one we sent last year. It is clear that as soon as we have the idea of organizing something, we can get in touch with the local police to ask for a risk analysis. The risk is not the same everywhere and for all events. A risk analysis, carried out jointly with the specialists and the local police, is needed. Secondly, on the basis of this analysis, consideration is given to the means available and the mechanisms to be put in place to reduce risks. Indeed, avoiding every risk is impossible. Where the means of local police are not sufficient, the crisis centre may be used at the federal level to provide for such means so that demonstrations can take place. In summary, the procedure is as follows: contact with the local police, risk analysis, and action to be taken, with all the means available to the local police areas. I called them back. We are not going to change that approach as a result of what happened the day before yesterday. We will not proclaim new measures; there is no reason. The OCAM is following the situation. If other information comes to us, we could consider adaptations but, depending on what we know today, we will continue our current actions. Mr Dallemagne, you asked me a few very specific questions. We do not currently have any information on the connection with Abrini. I do not avoid it, but for the moment I have no information about it. Are we already seeing returns from Libya today? I have already answered the more general question of returns on several occasions. Six people returned from Syria, two women and four children. There is no connection with Libya. That is the information that I currently have. I'm careful. With regard to the number of six to eight attacks, I repeat what the Commissioner-General of the Police said: it was Mrs De Bolle who, in an interview, responded with the information she had. That's why I quoted that number. The investigation services do not want to share more information on this subject at the moment. Mr Carcaci, it is wrong to say that nothing is being done against preachers and mosques. The police as well as the intelligence and security services follow the problematic mosques under Plan R. At the local level, this follow-up is also carried out through the local task forces. All the services are set up around the table, almost every month, to exchange information, follow up, if any, and organize measures. What steps can we take? The ban on access to Belgium (we have already prohibited certain hate preachers from accessing Belgium); the expulsion from Belgium; the prohibition on organizing certain events; the non-recognition of a local religious community. These are some of the measures at our disposal. To say that we do nothing is therefore incorrect. However, I must add, Mr President, that the great engine of violent extremism is far less mosques than the Internet. As far as the Internet is concerned, we have the Internet Referral Unit of the police. I have already answered these questions on several occasions in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that the greatest danger remains the Internet, and you have said so. As for mosques, it is especially those who preach hatred and violence that are guilty. We're not closing all the churches on the pretext of a few paedophile priests. It is therefore important to target those who preach hatred well, and it is above all those who must be put out of order to harm. Action has been taken by the government; it is enough to implement them. Mosques must be monitored, particularly with regard to funding. They should not be financed by foreign organizations or by foreign countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u17	Mr. Minister of the Interior, thank you. You remind us that the terrorist threat remains important and concerns us all. We must be able to continue to cooperate very closely, particularly with the British and other neighbouring countries. I come back from the vicinity of Mosul where I saw Belgian troops and some elite troops operating in the outskirts of Mosul. I was able to see the effectiveness of their work and wanted to say it to the Minister of Defence. You also remind us that there is a need to analyse on a case-by-case basis the risks involved in major events and to adapt the devices to these risks. I think we should check the adequacy of the arrangements for certain events, festivals and concerts. But we see it, and it is the mark of Islamic State terrorists, they adapt their modus operandi according to our protections. Therefore, we must persist in our proactivity and in our exploration of the devices we can put in place. I am thinking, in particular, of markets and large areas. In addition, you tell us that the Commissioner-General quotes this figure from six to eight foiled attacks. It would be important for you to check whether certain information should not be transmitted to our Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks, so that we may be able to take this into account in our recommendations, in particular the type of threats and the type of devices that have been effective in countering these attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u18	Mr. Minister of the Interior, we knew that Mr. Trump was an out-of-standard character. It confirms this with the barnum which constitutes its visit to Belgium and the state of siege in which the City of Brussels is located. Of course, Mr Trump is not just anyone, we must both protect him and welcome him properly. But I wonder if we are not gradually derailing. Mr Obama's last visit had already given rise to an extremely heavy and substantial device. Here, we realize that the US services have, in a way, taken possession of certain security functions and authority belonging to the Belgian State. The air skies within an hour will be in the hands of the U.S. service. The American intelligence services will be present in numbers. But, above all, there is this screening of the populations bordering the route which the American President will take in Brussels. I'd like to know what this screening of riparian populations is for. What information is provided to U.S. services? Is this system effective, interesting? What will become of this information that is given to U.S. services? Is all this proportionate, justified, legal under Belgian law? Is there a convention that binds us to the U.S. services for such visits? Why is this done with respect to the American president, but not with respect to the Chinese, Russian or French presidents? Is there a particular threat? Has an explicit request for U.S. services been made? Do we still have some freedom with regard to the arrangements we are setting up in Belgium to welcome the American President?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u19	I would remind you that we do not only receive Mr Trump but all the heads of state of NATO Member States. The device installed in the streets not only concerns Mr Trump but also, for example, Mr Erdogan. Preparations for such a visit shall be made in consultation with the United States security services. We work in the same way for each US President's visit and for European or NATO summits. We worked with the Americans on an equal footing. They didn't impose anything on us, we worked together and we took the steps we considered necessary to ensure the security not only of Mr Trump but of all the heads of state that we are going to receive. The headquarters of NATO is in our country and we are proud of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u20	Minister, you're quite skillful, but you're drowning the fish! I didn't ask you about the police device. I asked you about our airspace being managed by U.S. services for three-quarters of an hour. I can't imagine Mr Erdogan asking for the Americans to manage the airspace. The second very specific question concerned the screening of the populations bordering the Trump procession, not the procession of other heads of government. Is it true that our services provided this information. If so, to do what? What's it for? How effective is it? Is there a legal basis for transmitting private data of Belgian nationals to the US security services? That's the nature of my questions. I regret that you packed all this up quite quickly by saying that there were other heads of state. That wasn't my question! My question was that we remain in the rule of law. While it is normal for us to protect foreign heads of state when they move to Belgium, we would like to know on what legal basis. Transparency is needed. Belgian citizens have the right to this transparency!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u21	Mr President, it is fine for me that the Deputy Prime Minister should reply. Colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister, today our windmills are running more often than our nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u22	That's what you wanted, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u23	That's what our program says. Our programme is becoming more and more reality, but it lacks a policy that lets it pass. Yesterday, Objective 3 fell out and we had ten months of inactivity from Tihange 1, one of the oldest nuclear power plants. This is on top of the years of inactivity of the two crack reactors. The cures of the Belgian nuclear power stations and the doubts about their safety have also been noticed by our northern neighbours. That's not new. The choices made by your government and by the FANC have already been questioned very fundamentally from the Netherlands and Germany. A very clear signal came on top of that yesterday. People in the Netherlands are still looking for a workable government, but Parliament is not sitting still. Yesterday, with a rather colourful majority from the far left to the Liberals of D66, we received a signal from you about the Tihange nuclear power plant. Yesterday, the Dutch House of Representatives raised a question to close down these nasty old power stations. It is not every day that a national parliament takes such a clear position, so it seems logical to me that there should be at least a political consequence and that you should get to work on it. I have two questions. A first one is clearly within your jurisdiction. What will you do towards the Dutch authorities, towards the future Dutch government and the Dutch Parliament? Secondly, where is the credible plan of this majority and this government to actually shut down those power stations? They are doing their utmost to get that nuclear trip on their own, but it would be even better if this were done with a clear plan, an energy pact, an energy vision, which many colleagues have already asked questions about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u24	Mr Calvo, you know that nuclear safety is my responsibility, so your first question falls under my jurisdiction. Your second question will have to be put to Mrs Marghem, because your questions cover two areas. You know that it is in the government's programme to develop the vision of energy, but the timing of course falls within the competence of the Minister, so that question is best addressed to her. As far as safety is concerned, I would first of all like to point out that it is the responsibility of the Belgian State to see whether or not it is keeping its nuclear power stations open. The Dutch Parliament must have thought very carefully about this and consulted many specialists to get to what it is coming to. We have an agency for this, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FANC). It is a little unfortunate for you that the FANC comes up with advice and does not agree with you directly, so you regularly question the confidence in the FANC. We don't. We have faith in the FANC. The FANC is regularly reviewed, including by international specialists, and every time the FANC comes out with good figures. If there are any comments, they will also be immediately corrected in the FANC's policy. So I can only repeat what I have said to you 100 times, to Mr Nollet perhaps 200 or 300 times in committee: we follow the advice of the FANC, because we have confidence in the FANC. We don't play with security on our territory. We follow the FANC's opinions when they are positive and when they are negative. We'll follow them. You know that, at the request of the Dutch, as with the French, we make cross-checks: we visit them and they visit us. Such visits have already taken place and the Dutch are always positive about this. Now also, the competent minister in the Netherlands. Parliament is one case of the government of current affairs said he has full confidence in the FANC's opinions and in the Belgian government's policy in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u25	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I did not think you would answer that Tihange would be closed tomorrow. I did not expect that answer, but if yesterday a democratic majority of a friendly neighbour made an explicit plea, Minister Reynders doubts whether the Dutch...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u27	I can reassure you: it is normally easier to do business with the Netherlands than with Saudi Arabia or Kazakhstan, for example. To stick to the issue... [[Tumult]] Actually, Mr Reynders, it's not that far-fetched. We saw this morning in committee why it is logical for people to call "Kazachgate" and "Reynders" in one sentence. So that remark isn't that weird. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u28	Mr Calvo, we were talking about the safety of the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u29	In order to stay closer to home, Deputy Prime Minister, I am surprised that you do not announce an initiative. The least you could do is address you to the chairman of the House of Representatives and also to your colleagues from the Dutch Government, to follow up, as if only by organising a discussion, to the question asked by the Dutch Parliament. Finally, I agreed to have you answer this question, also because you are Deputy Prime Minister. However, you do not answer the question about the Energy Pact, and that is exactly what this country is looking for. I would have hoped, together with many fellow Members, that we would finally have a clear timing on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u30	Minister, since the end of the Cold War we have been saving on the defence budget. There were good reasons for this, such as the abolition of military service, the withdrawal from Germany and the reduction of our professional army from now on. However, in the light of the security situation in recent decades, underinvestment is no longer justified. Social security, mobility, the environment and education are all very important, but only if the survival of our society and its values are guaranteed. It's an en-en-story. In view of the criticism made by President Trump of NATO in the past, do you think that the subject of the 2% grant sharing for defence expenditure will be raised? What is Belgium's position on this? With your Strategic Vision, we're moving in that direction. Will you use the plan with your NATO colleagues, and in particular with President Trump, to highlight our efforts? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u31	Mr Minister, my question is not exactly the same, but it is not a problem to merge. I also refer to tomorrow's NATO summit. The alliance is 68 years old, but it is certainly not out. Russia is once again very assertive, even aggressive. Terror strikes all possible Western countries and the cybercrime is also advancing. The alliance, the collective defence, may I describe it for a moment, remains important for all partners, including the United States of America. I believe that tomorrow they will point out our duty to contribute more to the collective safety umbrella. That's just normal. Our security may be self-evident, but it is certainly not free, let us be clear, also for my group. The question, however, is how better to fulfil our part of the duty. We, as Open Vld, want to make a strong commitment to more European cooperation, to a European army. I was therefore very uncomfortablely surprised by the statements made by Mr Stoltenberg in Knack today. In his view, there can be no European army alongside NATO. He thinks that this double effort, I quote, and the financial resources are limited enough. Allow me to say: what nonsense! Today, the European Member States are doing double work with 27 military forces, 27 air forces and 27 naval forces. Today, these resources are not being used efficiently. Mr Minister, I come to my question. We must choose cooperation over fragmentation. We must prefer efficiency to waste. In other words, a strong European defence force will only strengthen NATO and thus not compete. My question is therefore very simple. What position will you take on behalf of our country tomorrow at the NATO summit on European cooperation? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014, NATO's fellow members did indeed commit themselves to contributing more to collective defence, as it is very well called, Mr Dewael. At the time, it was agreed that by 2024 we would grow to a spending of 2% of our gross domestic product. Of these, 20% will be available for investment in the renewal of the defence apparatus. I refer to the same article, because I have, of course, also read it with great interest. My evaluation is not as bleak as yours, Mr Dewael, I will get there in a moment. In any case, it is a fact that in 2015 the NATO countries globally stopped the decline. That was a first appointment made in Wales at the time, and that is absolutely a commitment the government is trying to make. However, there is still work to be done. I think Mr Stoltenberg made it clear in his interview that, as far as he is concerned, Belgium is not doing enough in terms of input today, while he is very satisfied with our output. That factor is, of course, taken into account. We must, of course, tackle the problem of misgrowths between 0.9 % and 2%. Mr Stoltenberg also praises in the same article, which is also important, our willingness as a small country in the large NATO community, the UN and the EU, to do something effectively with the limited resources we have and to use them for greater overall security. We were asked for our position on a European army. Mr Dewael, we must make this very clear. We have always defended more European cooperation here in the Chamber, more European integration and a genuine European security and defence policy. However, when a European army, as you call it, does the same thing as NATO and we use double forces to do the same twice, we are wrong, and that is what Mr Stoltenberg was talking about. That is why this was mentioned in the same article, among other things, 22 very concrete actions agreed between NATO and the European Union, through Mr Stoltenberg and Mrs Mogherini, in order to make European integration and the European foot in NATO clearer. Let me be very clear. If we want to achieve a more European integrated defence, it will not be cheaper. Belgium is at the forefront of European cooperation and is at the forefront of its cooperation with the Netherlands and partly with Luxembourg in the field of the Navy. Belgium is at the forefront of cooperation at Benelux level on mini drones. It is at the forefront of the current talks with France, to develop our land capacity integrated with the French. It's the lead in so many files. We must continue to do so. Tomorrow is absolutely the most important message we can give, the message that we will continue to be prepared to take on our part of international operations for the benefit of those who need it. In addition, we must make it clear that we will gradually transform the investments linked to the strategic vision, which we approved by law here last week, into effective investment programmes. After all, that will be the only signal that all our partners, both the United States and our European partners, will accept as credible and will therefore treat us as credible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u33	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You are right. In NATO, we have to divide the burden. We need Burden Sharing, but we also need to do so in the European Union. We'll have to wipe our own door first. You've done your homework for a long time. You have a strategic vision. We have already had a lot of output. It's time for input now. We are indeed in favour of European cooperation and a European army, but this must be complementary to NATO and built from the bottom up. Indeed, a European army should not be an excuse for underinvestment. We cannot expect other countries to invest in our defence and in our security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I remain convinced that European defence cooperation is the only way forward. If this is to be difficult with 27 January next, we should not talk about 28 January then we should also be able to consider the option of enhanced cooperation: a core Europe, you know. A year ago, Minister, you had the following recorded in a newspaper. I do not know if you have been asked correctly, but I quote: 'I wish the dreamers of a European army much pleasure, but they are wandering'. A few weeks ago, among others, Mr Grosemans strongly advocated a European army. I just want to argue that there is no contradiction. We must indeed invest in European cooperation. I can give you examples of countries that do not like such European cooperation at all, but I will not mention them by name. In any case, if each one remains for himself, then the resources will not be used efficiently today. Make the comparison with the United States of America. If all the states there were to work in this way with defence, we would have had a different discourse tomorrow. In short, European cooperation, possibly in a strengthened form, is the option of the future. I ask you to make a firm plea tomorrow with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u35	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my prediction of a few months ago is slowly coming true when I said that the Kazachgate is becoming more and more a Chodiev code, in the best Dan Brown style. And look who is involved: the Order of Malta, a President of the Senate, a President of France, and apparently King Albert II is also involved. Now we have the pope and some other vedettes and soon we get a very nice story. If we were to believe the French newspaper Le Monde, Albert II would have tried to give the controversial businessman George Forrest a title of baron. Mr George Forrest would have had an auction of EUR 90 000 and would have paid it through an intermediary. I also heard King Albert II probably tried to ask that through your predecessor, Steven Vanackere. According to the media, Mr Forrest says he has nothing to do with that. He did not become a baron, but in 2012 he received the title of Commander in the Order of Leopold and in 2014 the title of Grand Officer in the Order of the Crown. That seems rather a consolation prize to me. We all know that the granting of titles is very close to the royal family and the kings. The problem is, of course, that there is absolutely no transparency in this respect. We often hear it all through the media, but there is little transparency about it in this Chamber. However, the award of these titles requires co-signatory from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Foreign Minister, I would like to ask whether you intend to bring much more transparency about the award of such titles in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, there are procedures based on laws and royal decisions. Two facts. At the request of the Belgian ambassador in Kinshasa, the honorary sign of commander in the Order of Leopold was awarded to Mr George Forrest in April 2012, as well as another degree in 2014. During the 2013-2014 session of the Consultative Commission for the award of the noble favors, a file was submitted for Mr Forrest, but it was not stopped. Period. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I did not ask whether it was correct or what it was like with regard to Mr George Forrest. I would ask you to bring more transparency about the whole procedure from now on so that we do not have to hear everything through the press. We often pretend that there is transparency in the procedures, but there is just zero transparency. We can, of course, talk of cynicism, and you deserve the Nobel Prize in this respect, Minister. You must admit that the awarding of noble titles is no longer of this time. Citizens live in a modern democracy, and there are no noblemen among them. Belgium will then be the Waterloo of democracy. People like to talk about transparency, but they decide in back rooms. When we see how such titles are awarded, we have to decide to throw that shit in the trash. We have absolutely no need of Belgian noblemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u38	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister of Justice, in the spring, we are used to receiving the first budgetary adjustment to the general estimates and we are reviewing it by checking whether there are any extras, whether they are consistent with the government's policy and, if at all, where the government is going to achieve savings. It has not been my astonishment and that of my group to see, in reading this budgetary adjustment, a significant reduction of EUR 714,000, about 30%, in the grant for the recognition of secularism, the centres of secular action. I cannot imagine for a moment that they are targeted although apart from the 48,000-euro Muslim subsidy, they are the only affected in this department. The question is asked. Questioned in the Finance Committee yesterday, the Court of Auditors confirms the decrease while alleging that it did not receive any information on this subject. I am unaware of the reason for this and am surprised at this difference in treatment between the different sectors, that is, between philosophical or religious currents. It also appears that since 2013, the secular action centre has not received the payment of its last tranche of subsidy, in the order of 10 per cent. That is four years ago, or 40 per cent over that period. Minister, I would like an explanation. Do you confirm this decrease in the adjustment? Can you give us an explanation because the Court of Auditors does not have one? Can you confirm that this is not a 30% structural decrease in secularism subsidies in the coming years? I hope this is not a targeted attack on secularism. Why this difference in treatment between different cults, as can be seen from this first adjustment of the general state budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u39	Mr President, Minister, not so long ago we reminded you that the Constitution clearly states that recognised worship and beliefs are entitled to financial support. As long as that is in the Constitution, we must also implement it. There is no problem in that regard. However, the problem lies in the first budgetary adjustment that is now in the Chamber. It contains a sudden decline of EUR 714 000, which is a 32% reduction in their means of operation, on the lines of means of operation for the Central Free Trade Council. That surprises us, because there is no reason why this reduction should happen this year in the attached documents. There is therefore no justification for this decrease in the active substances. My question is very clear. Why this drop? It is, of course, completely incomprehensible. Together with the MR, we have tabled an amendment to amend this budget. The Francophone and Dutch-speaking Liberals did this together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that freedom is granted both provincial subsidies and federal subsidies. In addition to the remuneration of moral consultants in the federal secretariat of freedom, EUR 16.5 million for 50 persons, the FPS Justice also finances the operating costs of the representative body of freedom, for an amount of EUR 2 267 000. So together, a little less than 20 million euros. During the 2017 budget format, the FPS Justice, faithful to its mandate, submitted this amount of EUR 2 267 000 for the subsidy of the Central Free Affairs Council, despite the negative opinion of the Finance Inspector. It was finally decided, at the level of the government, to follow the reasoning of the Finance Inspectorate, which pointed out, in fact, a proven lack of supporting documents, which were nevertheless necessary. It was concluded that the commitment appropriations would be reduced by EUR 714,000, but that the liquidation appropriations would remain unchanged. The existing obligations vis-à-vis the actors of secularism will therefore not be disrupted in any way and will be fully fulfilled. I therefore note that this is only a purely technical question which is a matter of accounting rather than a savings decision. I would add that, after consultation with my colleague from the Budget, an amendment will be tabled to adjust, if necessary, the commitment appropriations. The liquidation of the outstanding amount will have to be done on evidence and approved by my department and the Finance Inspectorate. Of course, interested parties will be asked to ensure that their supporting documents are carefully followed up within a reasonable period of time. I hope, Mr Massin and Mr Mijnheer Van Biesen, that you will be keen to conclude, in the light of these clarifications, that the government and, in particular, the Minister of Justice, honour with the utmost vigilance their total commitment to secularism, as they do, moreover, with regard to all non-denominational cults and philosophical beliefs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u41	Mr Minister, I do not doubt a second of your good will, but it remains that the problem with regard to the Finance Inspectorate does not date from today, but, as I said, from 2013. All the supporting documents were prepared by the Centre d'action laïque. The only problem is that it has no desire to please the Finance Inspectorate, which, I would remind you, does not set the budget. The budget is a political act. It's up to you. Here I have a budgetary adjustment which is also a political act. I have taken note of your intention to table an amendment. We will be particularly attentive, we will write one too and submit it to you for signature to be sure and certain that the commitments will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and the announcement that this will be corrected during the budget debate as such. However, there is one element I would like to discuss with you. You say that there is a report from the Treasury Inspectorate that would justify this EUR 714 000. According to our data, the accounts have not been cleared at FPS Justice since 2012, but on the other hand there are a lot of elements and problems of control of the FPS Justice as such. Coordinate that, make sure the accounts are cleared so that this is done. With us, approve the amendment to give the people the money they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u43	Minister, more than one million Belgians will no longer be able to make phone calls or text messages within two weeks. This has to do with an amendment to the law that we all approved in Parliament last year before the summer recess. By law, people can't call anonymously anymore. This is a very good thing in the fight against terrorism. The law rightly provided for a transitional period of six months to give the people who use prepaid calling cards sufficient time to register with the telecom operators. Now, however, it turns out that this was a serious miscalculation. 1.3 million of prepaid SIM cards are still not registered and will soon be closed. It is mainly about older people and also young people who do not call very much, but at the same time we see that there are many SIM cards in devices such as alarm systems and tablets, which cannot receive warning messages from operators. Proximus apparently starts to disconnect with the songs within a few days. Telenet/Base will start in two weeks. Another problem is that in many European countries the system of registration is not and will not be introduced. This means that people with less good intentions will purchase their prepaid tickets in one of the countries in Europe where the registration system is not in place, especially now that roaming charges in Europe are about to expire. In other words, the law will be particularly annoying to the friendly citizens, while terrorists can still remain untraceable. There is therefore a need for a measure that applies to the whole of Europe, because anonymous foreign cards will still apply in our country within two weeks. I have two questions on this, Minister. Firstly, since 1.3 million of the prepaid SIM cards have not yet been registered, I ask questions about the campaign that was being conducted aimed at operators and users. Because a lot of people will be without a phone within a few days, I ask for the registration period to be extended, coupled with a clear campaign with a wide range. Secondly, since registration is not mandatory in all European countries, terrorists can still circumvent the system. That is why I urge you, along with your fellow Members who are also involved in this dossier, to ensure that the system of registration of SIM cards is high on the European agenda. Are you willing to do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u44	Mrs Detiège, your first question is, of course, not a question of how would I say that I give a satisfactory answer. You know as well as I do that there are still a lot of old Belgian franc notes in the people's drawers. Of course, the fact that an imminent deadline will stimulate trade-in behavior goes without saying. There's going to be a huge number of people registering their cards now in the days that follow for the deadline. The operators are doing the best they can. However, I fear that some of them will not succeed, as with old coins and old banknotes. There's no herb against it. As far as international politics and the European approach are concerned, you know that, within the European Council of Justice Ministers, we are the driving force behind the EVIDENCE project, where we are therefore trying to bring the new telecommunications methods under European directives. This applies to WhatsApp, Skype, Viber and so on, but also to the prepaid cards. It is true that we will only be able to operate efficiently if we can impose the same rules on all operators in Europe and in the world as those in force in Belgium. We must always be modest, but our ambitions may nevertheless be very great. That's what I'm fighting for with all my powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am actually a little disappointed that you say that the registration period will not be extended. You know that a lot of people - young people - are mobile, especially many older people who have also heard this call are not mobile. If Proximus makes that decision within a few days, the same people who are already having a hard time will lose their phones. I don't think that's really possible. That's one. You say that we Belgians can do little, that is not really a good attitude. Especially when we are international with yet another attack, it is very important that Belgium should be allowed to play a leading role once in a while and really stimulate the other countries. That's our job. So I would like to make a little more effort on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, the next day's pill is an emergency contraception that is not likely to present a danger and is now delivered without a prescription to a pharmacist. However, free access to this pill for young people is subject to prescription via prescription. We had discussions in the Health Committee. The majority, but you too, through your office, have refused legislative proposals that advocated the removal of multidisciplinary teams from the planning centres for the reception, listening and accompaniment of women and girls in family matters as well as in matters of sexual and reproductive life. In a May 19 press release, you say that the next day's pill is actually a hormonal bomb and that therefore, security measures must be taken. If, during your studies maybe, the next day's pill was a hormonal bomb, today, it's no longer the case. According to health authorities, evidence-based and WHO, the next day's pill is safe and safe; this obviously does not mean that it is a cookie! You also say that the next day's pill must and can be given in a centre under the responsibility of a doctor. So, Madam Minister, I would like you to be clear in your answer. What does "given under the responsibility of a doctor" mean? Does this mean that a doctor must be present to give it? Or, if the doctor accepts responsibility for his team in an approved centre – because we are also talking about places where there is knowledge and skills – is that worth it? Moreover, it is said that if the samples give free access to this pill the next day, it is also allowed that the center give this pill the next day. I don't understand the logic because if the reason is the danger or the quality of the care, whether it's a sample or not, it doesn't change anything about it. Finally, as we have said on several occasions in committee, the next day's pill is also available via the Internet. Minister, I would really like a clear answer. I would like to understand why this refusal to change the federal law to remove workers from the planning centres for access to this pill the next day. Why do you refuse this facility, which concerns a small number of women and girls who are the most fragile in our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, you repeated this in your May 19 press release, you do not want family planning centres to be able to give the next day's pill, unless it is done by a doctor. But we know that doctors are not permanently present in these centres. Why is it important that these centres can give the next day's pill? First, because the frame is secure. We don't distribute the next day's pill like buns or condoms. We strictly respect the conditions. Staff know what they are talking about, and in case of doubt, a doctor can be called since each of these centres has doctors. Secondly, there is the issue of accessibility. In these centres, the next day's pill is given free of charge while it is sold in a pharmacy between 8 and 16 euros. This is one more door to allow people to use this system. In France, for example, the next day's pill is distributed in high schools. Thirdly, there is the question of discretion. For a minor, it is easier to go to a family planning centre than to the family doctor or the local pharmacy. Fourthly, there is the question of follow-up. In family planning centres, an appointment can be arranged to explain contraception, prevention of STDs, etc. to the person concerned. Fifthly, your argument about the "hormonal bomb" is false. Indeed, there is a small temporary disturbance of the cycle, but there is no lasting effect, no effect on fertility, etc. In addition, it is much less a "hormonal bomb" than an IVG or a delivery. Minister, my questions are simple. If it's a doctor who has to give the next day's pill to the family planning centre, why doesn't it take a doctor's prescription to be able to buy it in a pharmacy? Since your medical arguments are just pretexts, what are your real motivations? I sincerely wonder about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has probably been over a year and a half since we discussed the subject in committee. The subject, it is true, is of fundamental importance. We had a final discussion at the 16 May committee, during which we saw two bills rejected which were proposed by the PS and Ecolo, concerning the provision of the next day's pill. I hear a little bit of everything and anything, but Mr. Van Hees may not have had the opportunity to be present in committee. It must be recognized that the reason for this refusal has been particularly well justified, since there is probably no need to amend legislation at the federal level from the moment when there is, in advance, an agreement between the Minister of Health at the federal level and the Minister responsible at the regional level. I insist on a fundamental element, especially to your attention, Madam Minister. Why? If you hadn't had this consultation with the federated entity, you would have been blamed. You have carried out this consultation, which leads to a positive result, since in the end Minister Prévot himself proposes you a key solution on the door, and you are also criticized. In the end, we must ask ourselves whether it is still possible to work in a democratic, or at least objective, way on this kind of issue. This was followed by some sort of misinformation, and that is what is embarrassing. That is why I will ask you two questions, Madam Minister. By the first, I ask you to recall the legal framework in which the planning centres can continue to give the pill the next day. Because in the end, this service is not deleted, Mr. Van Hees. Planning centres can continue, but within a specific legal framework. Secondly, can you confirm what has been said in committee, namely that Minister Prévot presented himself with the solution to the problem we were facing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u49	Access to the next day's pill must be guaranteed as I have always said, but in a safe setting for the patient. This safety is precisely guaranteed in the legislation because prescription and the issue of medicines are reserved for certain health-care professions, subject to certain criteria. It is therefore many health care professionals who deliver drugs, not institutions. We must remain vigilant with regulatory derogations, as provided for in the proposal. The current regulation is fundamental and has good reason to be. Under these regulations, doctors hired in these centres can deliver samples and the next day's pill. In the Public Health Committee, two proposals were discussed with a view to providing for a derogation from existing regulations. Neither proposal provided for conditions for the training or skills of those responsible for distributing contraceptives and emergency contraceptives within the centres. I think I have expressed my concern about this, even before it is dealt with with by Minister Prévot, who has jurisdiction over it. This concern is also shared by physicians and pharmacists. I learn from the media, among other things, that apparently fewer doctors are working in these centres. It is for this reason that attempts have already been made in the past to entrust the prescription and delivery of contraceptives to midwives, but this proposal has received a negative opinion from the Higher Council of Specialist Physicians and the two Royal Academies. In the meantime, I have received a reply from Minister Prévot, in which he states that it is essential to find a legal solution for prescription and distribution, in order to maintain the accessibility of contraceptive pills and the next day via family planning centres. It is proposed to resume discussions on collaboration between pharmacists and family planning centres. Mr. Prévot then proposed a solution to allow the centres to continue to distribute this medicine as part of the current regulations for samples that are always free and to create a parallel collaboration with the official and the charging authorities. This will enable us to reach a solution, but within the framework of the existing law and without additional and undesirable exceptions to the legislation on the provision of medicines, while ensuring that safety and accessibility are guaranteed to patients by the family planning centres which propose it and the field partners, i.e. pharmacists and doctors. Mr Van Hees, you are not well informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u50	Minister, you did not answer my question. In your statement, you say that the next day's pill can only be distributed under the responsibility of the doctor. What do you mean by that? Do you mean that only a physically present doctor can distribute a pill? Why don't you give a concrete answer to my question? I asked if a doctor accepts responsibility for prescribing a pill the next day by members of a multidisciplinary team from an approved centre...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u51	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u52	Madam Minister, we must not exaggerate. I would have put in my bill conditions on the teams of the planning centres, you would have said that it was not a federal jurisdiction. You are well aware that approved planning centres meet requirements. If you wanted demands, you had the opportunity to propose an amendment, if that was the only thing that bothered you! Here, you don't answer, you finally refuse to give access to the medicine. Finally, if you agree to distribute samples, there will be no more safety than if you give a drug out of the samples. From the moment we have access to these pills the next day on the internet, where are the safety and the consideration of these young women, these young girls?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u53	Minister, clearly, your arguments are not on the way. On the other hand, your explanations are not clear at all. My colleague, Mrs Gerkens, is wondering about your position with regard to the family planning centres. Who can distribute the next day's pill in these centres or not? It's not clear. It is on purpose that you keep a certain vagueness on the issue. Minister, what are your real motivations? At the level of health, that does not hold. These are pretexts. Is this a budgetary incentive? No, there is no budgetary impact. I see two possibilities. Either, it's really the corporatist reflex towards the profession of doctors and pharmacists. Either, even more serious – I make the link with your attacks on medical homes – it is a philosophical position against a certain conception of medicine, against a social, collective, progressive medicine of health. You're fighting this. My two explanations may also coexist and there may be convergence between the two. In any case, it's not medical, it's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. A lot has been said. I think it must be made clear that, contrary to what we have heard, the next day's pill is still available in family planning centres. Where there will be no doctor, the planning centre can send the patient to a pharmacy, where she can receive the next day's pill. I fear misinformation. I want to put things in place and refer to the president of the federation of family planning centres, who said: "Today, in every family planning centre, there is a doctor authorized to deliver the next day's pill. It is incorrect to say that the family planning centres will no longer be able to deliver the next day's pill." This is obviously fundamental. One would suggest, in what I have just heard today, that it would be unnecessary for the young girls concerned to go to the family planning centres. It's just the other way around! Fortunately, this correction has been made. I think this is an example of how to manage a sensitive issue between the federal government and the federated entity. We can only congratulate ourselves on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u55	Madam Secretary, I really shouldn't tell you anymore, every day mental health care is gaining in importance. Unfortunately, the number of depressions and burnouts continues to rise. Flanders has one of the highest suicide rates in Europe. At the same time, despite the many measures you have already taken, the use and prescription of antidepressants and sedatives remains far too high. Madam Secretary, I know that mental health care is very close to your heart. In fact, you have already set a milestone in this legislature with the law on mental health professions. Finally, there is the recognition of the clinical psychologist. This means that we can guarantee patients high-quality help. However, as you know, the work is far from finished. For many patients, but also for general practitioners, the threshold remains to go to a psychologist, or to send patients to the psychologist, far too high, especially for financial reasons. 32% of people with psychological problems do not go to a psychologist because of the financial threshold. We are very pleased that you announced through the media last weekend that you are finally going to work on the reimbursement of psychological aid, an important part of the coalition agreement. I understand the Federal Council is now in place. I would like to ask you three questions about this. How do you see the refund? How do you see the modalities? More importantly, what timing do you see for this and what is your idea of financing it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Hufkens, you know that we have been working on networking, both for children and adolescents and for adults. There is also the legal anchoring of mental health calls within the WUG. The necessary amendments have been made to the Law of 4 April. The Law of 10 July 2016 is therefore an essential building block for an even more professional mental health care. You're saying it right, there's still work to be done. The Federal Council for Mental Health Occupations must provide advice. There have already been several consultations. In a very short time, the working members and the replacement members will be appointed. The royal decree with all their names is on its way to the king. I plan an installation meeting for the summer and they can discuss their opinions. I want to give priority to quality guarantees. Every citizen must have access to affordable mental health care. If we reserve public funds for the reimbursement of psychological care, I want guarantees on the quality of that care. The Council's opinions are important for this. Anyone who consults a doctor knows that they have the necessary competences. That should also be the case for those who visit a clinical psychologist or a clinical orthopedagogic doctor, who should administer mental care. For me, this is the first step in the development of the legal framework, making it possible to set standards of recognition and control. The demand of patients to provide more funding for psychological concerns is certainly legitimate and will be developed during this legislative period. There is still a need for consultation with the Community's colleagues and with the field of work on how this can be organized. In order to include such care in compulsory health insurance, there must be guarantees of quality and it must be ensured that funding can be sustained. That is the road map we are following.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u57	Madam Secretary, I look forward to hearing the opinions of the Federal Council. I think you are right when you say that we should go for a step-by-step refund and that the threshold should be kept very low and the quality very high. There must also be budgetary orthodoxy. After all, one cannot just repay everything. Our group has already put a proposal on the table at the beginning of this legislative period, and we see the general practitioner as an important border guard. I would like to know whether this is included in the opinions. We look forward to it and will certainly follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, Minister, for finding the time to come. I really appreciate that. Mr Minister, under the Di Rupo government, the government has managed to remove our country from Europe's penal bench despite a very difficult economic situation and thanks to a very good budgetary policy. However, Minister, there was no doubt that we were once again on the European criminal record. In the end, the European Commission has decided not to do so. However, it is not easy in its report, which we have heard on Monday. It speaks of a serious deviation from the 2016-2017 budget path. The European Commission is calling for additional measures amounting to an effort of EUR 1.3 billion. Minister, as you know, that is more than the budgetary control we had in March 2017 and are now discussing in committee. However, Minister, your reaction to that report is disturbing. You're still in denial. There's nothing wrong. Everything's going perfectly. There is nothing and Europe is mistaken. Mr Minister, for a government and above all for a party that promised to put things in order at last, that attitude is shameful. My questions are very simple. What will you ultimately do to get the budget on track? What efforts do you intend to make to achieve this amount of EUR 1.3 billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Temmerman, you have indeed said it correctly: Europe has not put us on the bench, contrary to what many people have thought or put forward in recent weeks. There are several reasons for this. First of all, 2016 turned out to be a lot better than was thought at the last minute, also by the European Commission. The deficit in 2016 was not 2.9 %, but 2.6 %. Secondly, the Commission also explicitly recognises that 2016 was a rollover year, a year in which, partly because of circumstances beyond our will, we have not been able to do what was envisaged in the budgetary field. In any case, with the government's efforts for 2017, the structural deficit will come back close to 1% of GDP. It has been some time since the structural deficit was at that level. Moreover, you will have noticed that the Commission is generally much more positive, both in terms of the macroeconomic situation and in terms of the budget, than in February. The Commission is very positive about the restoration of competitiveness and very positive about job creation performance, especially thanks to the tax shift. The Commission has also expressed extensive praise for reforms on pensions and the labour market, for example. Of course, as always, the Commission has questions. We will answer these questions in the coming weeks. Questions include measures on tax fraud and tax regularisation. This is a whole series of new measures, and we all know that proper forecasts of the yield of such measures are therefore very difficult and always discussable. Finally, I would like to point out that, if you follow the Commission's documents, there is no additional effort of EUR 1.3 billion or 0,3% of GDP. That point is therefore not on the agenda. We will, of course, enter into extensive dialogue with the Commission in order to answer the questions that the Commission has put to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u60	Minister, I have to say that you persist in anger and denying things. I would like to repeat: neither 2015 nor 2016 have you reached 0.6%. That is precisely why we need to make another effort in 2017 and 2018. You say that the Commission says that this effort of EUR 1.3 billion should not be achieved. No, she's talking about the 0.6 and saying you need to reduce debt. If you calculate this, it amounts to another effort of EUR 1.3 billion, but you deny it. Mr President, as Mr Bredero said, it may be true. I shall quote you: 'The government is clearly taking us for a fool with this premeditation. The question is whether she doesn't do that to herself. Well, you were right then: this is perfectly applicable to you and to this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, according to the barometer measuring the attraction of Belgium as an investment country every year, everything points to a revival of the European and Belgian economies, which is good news. The barometer shows that we are in a boom and that the number of foreign direct investment with 5 845 new projects in Europe is reaching a new record level. This is good news not only for Europe but also for Belgium. Indeed, Belgium achieves a good result in 2016, the second best result with 200 new investment projects, which is slightly less than in 2015. This is good for eighth place in the European ranking of attractive European countries for investment, after Germany, France and the Netherlands among others. So that's pretty good news. However, the barometer also shows that American investment is falling to an important extent when President Trump arrives in our country. In recent years there have been on average around 50 investment projects per year. In 2016, that would only be 31. In addition to the fall in US investment, however, there is also good news. Apparently there are more investments from France and Japan in our country, which is also important to note. Mr Secretary of State, what about foreign investment? What is evolution? What is your view of evolution? What explanation can you give for the significant fall in US investment in our country? Ladies and gentlemen, American investment has always created a great deal of employment in our country in the past. In my region, for example, Nike and Johnson&Johnson do thousands of jobs. So these are important investments, which is why I ask you what your view is on the reduction in US investment. How can you further stimulate them? This is important for the global prosperity in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u62	Mrs. Smaers, you referred to Ernst & Young's annual report. 2015 was a good year for Belgium and was a good year for Belgium as an investment country according to the barometer of Belgian attraction compared to previous years, but those were of course the years that followed the economic crisis. It was the second best result; only in 2015 they did even better. Belgium is the eighth most attractive country in terms of investment, but we still have to note that a number of countries are doing better, such as Germany, France and the Netherlands. The report already sees a number of opportunities for our country and for our regions to strengthen our position. Firstly, we need to reduce the tax burden; we need to focus more on technology and innovation; we need to reduce labour costs and address the mobility issue. The latter is particularly important, since as many as 45% of the managers questioned indicated that congestion and access to road infrastructure have a negative impact on investment decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the report also says that US investment in Belgium is stabilising. I must also point out that the American economy is more oriented than others towards the domestic market. Exports represent only 13%, even though this share has been rising in recent years. That trend could continue under President Trump. On the other hand, Belgian investment in the United States increased by 36%. Belgium is thus almost the tenth investor in the United States, which is still more than China, Brazil and India, for example. Belgian companies account for as many as 160 000 jobs in the United States. At the same time, the United States in Belgium represents an interest of 160 000 daily jobs, and that is of course not to be underestimated. I would nevertheless like to support a number of actions by the federal government, Mr President. I am pleased to be able to answer another question here. The figures clearly show that the promotion of exports is delivering effective results and that exports are clearly supported by international trade agreements, let us not forget that. TPP and TTIP, currently in the refrigerator, would together account for 65% of the world economy. There are shipments abroad. I refer to a number of missions in the past. As for the future, I will be making a bilateral work visit next week, the first of a member of the federal government since the new Trump administration took office, where I will have a meeting with one of the key figures of the administration, namely the Minister for Foreign Trade Wilbur Ross, who has also accompanied the President in Saudi Arabia and Israel, and I will once again support the role of the United States in Belgium on a bilateral basis. So much for my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, even PTB applauds. Thank you for your answer and for your efforts in the field of external trade. I think that should be underlined today. Foreign trade is absolutely important to our country. When 85% of our prosperity is created by exports and external trade, that is not to be underestimated. It is the basis for everyone's well-being and social security, which we can build. Investment in foreign trade is therefore very important. I agree with your answer in that, in addition to facilitating a positive investment climate and fiscal environment with a new tax shift, there is also a need to re-launch the TTIP negotiations. I believe that it is also your job and that of the federal government to continue to urge Europe, in addition to bilateral treaties and contacts with the United States, to put TTIP negotiations back on the agenda. It would be good if the next visit by the US President to our country would include foreign trade and mutual trade relations and not just security and defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u64	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be too long. But it still seemed important to me to make an oral report here in plenary on this amendment to the law on transgender which they have been waiting for more than ten years. Ten years ago, Minister of Justice, we passed a 2007 law, which presented some progress but totally irreconcilable with Belgium's obligations at the international level. Indeed, and that is what we have tried to comply with in this new bill, no one can be forced to undergo medical procedures, including surgical procedures, reassignment of sex, sterilization, hormonal therapies as legal recognition of their gender identity. I believe that this sentence has guided the work of both the government and this Parliament. It must be said that many other European countries were already much more advanced than we were in relation to transgender people. There has been a broad consultation of associations on the ground and the government has opted for framed self-determination which supports the person concerned in an appropriate manner, bearing in mind that under current Belgian law, gender is still an element of a person's state. It was explained that the desire to change sex registration must be expressed in a serious manner, without anyone being able to judge in the place of the person concerned. I'll be right back. According to the Secretary of State, the aim of the project is to provide every individual with a maximum chance of developing in a way that truly corresponds to him or her, without having to meet excessive demands. It is therefore stated in this bill that all medical criteria, to which the change in sex registration is subject, are removed. It's important. It is of course also stated that the change in the registration of sex in the birth certificate is in principle irrevocable. It is only to the extent that the person concerned provides evidence of exceptional circumstances that a further change in sex registration may be authorized through the Family Court. The King's prosecutor – and that is also a question to me – will also have to demand the nullity of an act of modification of the registration of sex because of an annoyance to public order, for example in case of identity fraud. From now on, a change of first name will be accepted on the basis of a declaration of honour of the conviction that the sex indicated in the birth certificate no longer corresponds to the identity of the gender lived intimately. A procedure is also provided for minors who are not emancipated. All the speakers who spoke in the Justice Committee said that it was necessary to revise the 2007 law stressing its totally stigmatizing nature, contrary to the recommendations. Ms. Van Cauter said that we are forerunners in many ethical laws. It was time for us to move forward on the subject of trans people. Van Vaerenbergh recalled that a small minority of transgender people had decided to go through a medical process and it was therefore important to change the law. Mr Flahaux felt that this was an essential step in the direction of freedom and humanism, but that it was undeniable that this text still needed to be improved in the future. (Mr Flahaux confirms) But the minister decided to stay there arguing that the best is the enemy of the good. Ms Winckel recalled two fundamental principles that should guide the work of the Committee: self-determination and the need to demediate the situation of transgender people, which had been stressed by the hearings. We thank the majority for having accepted the hearings, since they were important, allowing certain groups to table amendments, some of which will be detailed to you by Mrs Winckel earlier. An amendment was tabled by the majority and supported by the whole, namely the certificate issued by the transgender associations. It was accepted what was important because the associations did not want to carry these types of certificates and decisions. Two elements were discussed: The problem of persons between the ages of 16 and 18 who still need the certification of a child psychiatrist. Mr. Hellings and Ms. Giroflée expressed the view that consideration should be given to the Juvenile Protection Act. Mr. Brotcorne said that he was against the deletion of the expert's opinion. What is important in decisions is that the minor's ability to discern is assessed and not his or her willingness to change gender. Therefore, the evaluation should not address this gender change. I think it is good to repeat it here, of course. It's true that there was the whole discussion about sex and gender. Amendments have been tabled by Mr Hellings, but they have not been accepted by the majority. A final discussion – and finally, ladies and gentlemen – focused on the issue of the power of discretion left by the registrar. The amendment was re-tabled, minister. Indeed, we very sincerely believe that the registrar should not be able to refuse a change of sex when someone comes before him, when that person has had the permission of the king's attorney and has already carried out other types of procedures. It is true that it is not shared, in particular, by Mrs Van Cauter, who will probably say so in a moment, since she is paralleling white marriages, where the registrar has discretion. We are challenging this discretion in the context of a change of sex, but the amendment was not accepted by the majority. The minister pointed out that the person who would be denied a change of sex by the registrar could still go to the court of first instance. I would just like to point out that, given the congestion of the courts, it is likely that her application will be postponed for many months. Mr. Brotcorne also pointed out that this possibility of appreciating the civil status officer ran counter to the philosophy contained in the Act. We still think so. Perhaps Mrs Winckel, who will talk about it in a moment, will convince you to vote for the amendment that we are resubmitting to say that it is no longer necessary for this subjective possibility to be assessed by the registrar. In any case, the draft was adopted by a very large majority in the Justice Committee. We can only congratulate him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak very briefly from my bank. I would like to point out that the draft law gives effect to the government agreement and to European legal obligations. Other countries such as Malta, Argentina, Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Spain, the Netherlands and Norway preceded us. The current system, which dates back to 2007, poses many problems in terms of legal recognition. Under existing legislation, persons wishing to change gender are obliged to adapt physically to the other sex. The current regime therefore contains medical conditions, which require the transgender to undergo a substantial and very expensive medical process that takes three to four years. However, not every transgender needs that. Only a minority chooses to have the body physically adjusted through one or more interventions or treatments. The present draft law separates the legal aspect of transgenderism from the medical aspect. In fact, the medical conditions for changing sex have in the past been assessed by international courts as a violation of the right to respect for private life. Important also in the fight against transphobic violence and transphobic discrimination is that the new scheme allows transgender persons to carry out their daily activities without fear of involuntary outing. Moreover, the draft law translates the right to self-determination, while at the same time providing a number of safeguards against frivolous action, not because it seeks to protect transgender persons from frivolous decisions, but to prevent non-transgenders from using the procedure for any reason. Let me sum up the guarantees. First of all, the applicant must go through a three-moon waiting period. Secondly, the King's Attorney can advise on the contradiction of the application with public policy. Thirdly, the prosecutor may claim nullity even after the document has been drawn up if there is a breach of public policy. In addition, a judicial procedure is provided for for a possible return to the birth lineage. That's what happens before the family court. This judicial procedure provides a guarantee against abuse by others. Finally, for the minor transgender persons, who can change their sex on their identity papers, this will be possible from the age of 16. Both the parents' consent and the child psychiatrist's certificate are required. However, the latter should not assess whether the person has a gender identity but the assessment capability of the minor. For these reasons, because the draft law is very balanced and represents progress for a very small but also very vulnerable group, we will approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u68	Mr. Chair, the Secretary of State, Minister, the right to self-determination of trans people was clearly the purpose of this bill. My group has been calling for this project for a long time and will support it, as it has supported in committee. There is no suspense! We will do so despite some regrets. We hope to change your mind as a result of our intervention. Ten years ago, our assembly passed a law on what was then called "transsexuality". At that time, this law was, in the eyes of many, a real step forward in the recognition of trans persons within our society. What could appear as a step forward ten years ago, and which was really so, because we have to put ourselves in the spirit of the time, can now appear as totally outdated and archaic. The company has evolved. The issues of gender identity and gender identity have also, fortunately, continued to progress. The stigmatizing nature of the 2007 law, as well as the inadequacy of its title, are no longer in doubt in anyone's head today. Ten years later, talking about psychiatric follow-up, sexual reassignment or hormonal treatment in order to be able to change a registered name or gender seems totally inconceivable. It was necessary to review our legislation, which currently does not meet international standards and recommendations on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity. Indeed, the recognition of gender identity is conditional on the follow-up of strict medical procedures. That is why my group and I tabled a resolution to correct, improve this legislation and make it non-stigmatizing. We could therefore only rejoice in seeing this bill come on our benches. However, while we were able to point out some progress, it quickly became apparent that improvements could be made to the text. I thank the majority for agreeing to hold hearings, because they have been very valuable and have confirmed to us that it is still necessary to propose some amendments for this text. For my group, two elements remain problematic because they always run counter to the right to self-determination of everyone, which is the very subject of this bill. The first gap in the text concerns the situation of minors between the ages of 16 and 18. Indeed, the hearings highlighted the fact that very early (the age of 12 was even mentioned), a child is quite capable of determining the gender to which it belongs. However, in the bill, a child psychiatrist's certificate is still required for 16-18-year-olds to be able to change their registered gender. The text thus undeniably continues to medicalize the procedure for these minors. This was also denounced by the people heard at our hearings. The second gap appeared in a somewhat secondary way, even as an accessory, in committee. This is the discretion given to the King's prosecutor, but also to the registrar, in the context of the registered gender change procedure. Although the conditions relating to the possibility of changing the registered gender have been removed, it appears that the procedure is unfortunately extended and even complicated. Indeed, the King's prosecutor may give a negative opinion for "contrary to public order". In our view, this concept remains far too vague, leaving room for different interpretations and thus for legal uncertainty. In addition, if his or her opinion is deemed to be favourable, the registrar will not have to confirm himself or herself. It is for us, on the one hand, the consecration of a broad discretion of the registrar, which was not provided for in the 2007 Act; on the other hand, an insufficiently regulated power which could, in many cases, oppose the right to self-determination of trans persons. It is true that we had a long debate in the last committee, by turning the ball away. I've allowed myself to do a search. In their article, Mr Van Gysel and Mr Lépinois, lawyers at the Brussels Bar, come back very clearly on the role of the registrar in the spirit of the 2007 law. I quote them: "The registrar can only verify whether the declaration is formally in conformity with the law, but not its sincerity or its content, whereas the prosecutor can object in case of fraud or substantial defect which would infect the medical reason produced." We are clearly moving away from the 2007 law, which was a positive point. We're fooling each other. We have pointed out these shortcomings, these imperfections on several occasions in committee, and we have tried to remedy them by tabling various amendments which we are going to resubmit today, hoping that they will be voted on. The reason for our insistence is that it took ten years to bring about these important new legislative changes and that we fear, therefore, that the discussions on this issue can only be reopened in about ten years. We are convinced that this is only one stage, that there will be others in the future, and that the concept of gender itself will undoubtedly continue to evolve. Despite what we see as imperfections, it is undeniable that with this bill we are taking an important new step in favour of the recognition and inclusion of trans persons in matters of civil status, but only in this area. It is important to clarify this because a whole field of action has yet to be completed. For my group, this is not the only dimension of the work. Issues relating to access to care, health, the fight against discrimination, but also to the specific situation of intersex people, will also need to be the focus of our attention very quickly. Although the Minister of Health has just announced that a budget will soon be made available to provide psychosocial support to trans people, I would like to point out that the needs of trans people are sometimes and often different and that it is important not to bring their questioning back to the needs of psychological help or disorder alone. That is why our group has tabled a fairly broad resolution on the right to health of trans people so that the rights of trans patients are respected and considered within the framework of the right to self-determination of all. Of course, we hope to be able to discuss it quickly and with the support of all the groups. I will conclude by recalling that Belgium has often been a pioneer country in terms of access to LGBT rights and combating discrimination. This was no longer the case with our legislation on trans persons. Let us therefore make every effort today to develop a truly comprehensive and inclusive approach to enable the recognition and protection of the rights of LGBT people and to remain an example at European and international level. For example, Mr President, like other institutions, the rainbow flag could be raised in the future on the International Day against Homophobia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great emotion that I take the floor this afternoon. Indeed, for me today, it is not the visit to Brussels of so many world leaders that matters, even if I consider that we are, in a way, also on the move. This Wednesday, May 24 is an important day for our democracy. This is an important day for the freedom of our fellow citizens, be they Belgian or of foreign origin. This is an important day for what our Prime Minister Charles Michel reaffirmed at the Belgian Pride last Saturday. He talked about the freedom to love. For us liberals, the state and public authorities are there to allow citizens to stand, stand, and be free. And especially free to love, but also free from their bodies. In this march towards freedom, we have worked for education and education for all. We have worked for the freedom of women, including their choices of life, work, marriage and body. We have worked for the freedom of gays, whether they are men or women. Indeed, all these struggles have as a constant and ever wider objective the inclusion of all our fellow citizens in the national community, whatever they may be. This also applies to our fellow citizens living abroad, with whom we want to establish ever closer ties. Today, our work of inclusion concerns transgender issues. This problem is extremely ill-known, even beyond Parliament, by our fellow citizens. However, this affects between 30 and 35,000 people in Belgium. This may not be an impressive figure, but it is between 30 and 35,000 people who are not currently included in our community. They are poorly known and some, sometimes even in parliament, confuse them with transsexuals or transformists, which has nothing to do with it. They live – and I would like to remind them with strength – in a multiple confinement, a confinement of their body, as my colleague and friend Fabienne Winckel said. In fact, sometimes it is from their earliest age that they feel in another person's body, sometimes from the age of 8, 10 or 12 years. They had long been condemned to live their whole lives in another's body, and therefore to be particularly unhappy. This is one of the reasons why the rate of transgender suicide is among the highest in the country, even higher than in the gay community where young people and girls, not feeling recognized as such by their families or social milieu, unfortunately reach this end. It is also important that society and families better understand the situation of this multiple confinement of their bodies from an early age. I know a few examples of people, some of whom are even present here, for whom this is going very well with their families. In many families, however, this situation is being rejected. Added to this was a legal confinement. Indeed, while the legislation had evolved in 2007 from the previous one, it had even created new problems. To benefit from a change, it was necessary to deal with all the psychiatrization, all the medicalization and even, in a forced manner, a physical change of people from one sex to the other. Since Belgium signed agreements, particularly in Jakarta, we have been in default. It was essential to change the legislation. I recall that this was the fundamental claim of the Belgian Pride, the transsexual bill, for several years. Here I would like to publicly thank Minister of Justice Koen Geens, former Secretary of State Elke Sleurs and his successor Zuhal Demir, who carried the draft and presented it to the Justice Committee. I would also like to acknowledge the contribution of our Prime Minister and his cabinet, who have also contributed to moving things forward. That's how we move on. "The Union is strength," says the Belgian motto behind me. In this area too, it is a formula that has worked. I want to say that we have been waiting for this bill for three years. It was regularly discussed in the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee. Fabienne Winckel, who is the president, can confirm that. We regularly recalled this bill, which was provided for in the government agreement. I would tend to say – in a slightly more political than general approach – that once again, in this area as in others, the government has kept its promises since it was included in the government agreement. We finally got there. In this context, I would also like to stress the extremely positive and constructive aspect of all the groups represented in the Committee on Justice. Frankly, everyone has brought a positive stone to something that – it is normal in the absolute – must be above the concerns of each of the parties. There has been a willingness on the part of all to speed up, to hold true hearings and to move forward in consensus. I thank our rapporteur, Karine Lalieux, for her report. This bill contains a whole series of extremely positive things. The question is whether it responds to all requests. I will be frank: no, indeed, it does not respond to all the requests we have heard. I have always had as a formula – and Karine Lalieux repeated it earlier – that the boat should not be overloaded for fear that it would capsize. In view of what has happened in France with the law of marriage for all, the demonstrations and all the horrors that have aroused, with the push of homophobia and all the unhealthy acts, I think that we must move the boat forward, which we are doing today; we must bring it to a successful conclusion, which we are going to do today. Of course, there will still be improvements to be made in the future. This will be all the more important given that we will have the experience of the new law proposed for voting today. It is not – as I said to the community – a desire not to accept other things, but it is to ensure that the law succeeds, because the big work will now be the pedagogy towards the entire population of our country. It is not enough to have a law passed; it must also percolate, if I may say so, among the population. We had the same situation with homosexual marriage. As a mayor, I have celebrated many homosexual marriages. My greatest delight was to see in the Seniors' wedding room, sometimes great elders, kids running in the room, and all that seemed normal. The aim is to percolate a law in the population, so that it is considered, after a while, natural, if I may say so. Beyond the passing of the law, our objective will be to ensure that, after a certain time – sometimes it takes time – it appears to be something quite normal. The pedagogy goes as well, of course, by examples. It is in this sense that I would like to thank Olivier Chastel personally and Denis Ducrame. They made sure that I could have as a collaborator someone who was a man before. It is by showing such concrete examples that the situation is being changed. Personally, I didn't know the problem of transgendering. Some small minds may think that the one who is gay – I am gay – necessarily knows the situation of transgender people. Not at all! For me, it's something absolutely new. I've learned a lot and I'll learn more. In this context, I think I should be exemplary. I would like other parliamentarians, mayors or aldermen, to be able to hire transgender people in their cities and soon to be regarded as purely banal. My goal is clear and I'll end with it because I realize that I've been a little long, as usual. As I said a few days ago to the press, my objective is not even the right to be different, it is the right to indifference. That is what must be our fight. I am very proud to belong to a Parliament where respect for the other, whatever it may be, is fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u70	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, last weekend the 22nd edition of the Belgian Pride continued. Tens of thousands of people traveled the streets of Brussels with one central message: Holebies, transgenders, transvestites and gender fluids unite in their desire to be considered equal. The vote on this bill could not have been better. Today, Parliament is taking an important step by finally making the necessary changes to the law on transgenders. Why do you need it? Due to a recent ruling by the European Court of Justice. Also necessary because we have endorsed the Jogjakarta principles, according to which people should not be forced into medical actions or operations as a legal condition for the recognition of their gender identity. From perhaps the most dated legislation in Europe, we are now moving towards the most progressive legislation in this area. The CD&V Group fully supports the objectives of this law and the simplified method of gender adjustment, both for adults and for minors from the age of 16. In this draft law we abolish all medical criteria. A statement of honour will suffice. The law makes it possible for each transgender to develop his private life according to the polite identity without the gender recorded at birth having to reappear again and again and the person concerned playing part. The current legislation must ensure that no more lives or families are destroyed, or that acts of desperation are carried out, because that is still a reality today. This legislation will increase the social acceptance of transgenders and will no longer force them to undergo both very risky and very costly operations. We continue to demedicalise and go further than other countries such as Hungary, the United Kingdom or the Netherlands where a certificate from a psychologist, a general practitioner or expert is still required. It is important for us here that a person concerned should make the statement himself, according to his inner polite identity, without having to decide in his place in any way, but also that the person concerned should be fully aware of the consequences of this declaration and of the fact that the adjustment is, in principle, irrevocable. That is why we attach importance to a sufficiently large range of organisations specializing in non-medical matters and in the information provision to transgenders, especially to children who are already experiencing a gender identity different from the slaughter mentioned in the birth certificate at an early age. From the observation that children are already aware of their gender identity at an early age, we foresee two important steps for minors. First, the first name change is made possible due to another gender identity from the age of 12. An adaptation of the gender in the civil status registers is made possible from the age of 16. Secondly, we are nevertheless opting for the inclusion of a guarantee to assess the ability of the child and youth psychiatrist not to determine the gender identity of the person concerned, but to determine whether the minor has sufficient discernment capacity to believe that the sex from the birth certificate does not correspond to his innerly experienced gender identity. Once again, we are calling for a further extension of the supervision of these young people, their parents and other family members, once again non-medical in nature. Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, today we are taking a major step towards the full recognition of transgenders in our society through this important adaptation in the field of civil law with which we are returning to the match-stone at international level. Colleagues, I come to my conclusion. The message of the tens of thousands of people last weekend was beautiful, sincere and clear. Human equality is not only everyone's desire, but also everyone's right. This bill is the formal legal confirmation of that. I would therefore particularly like to thank the Minister of Justice and the two Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, both Mrs Sleurs and her successor, for the ground-breaking work they have done. I would also like to express my sincere thanks and appreciation for the constructive cooperation in the committee and for the organisations that have accompanied us in formulating our position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only our wish, but it is also up to our country and this Parliament to work out a procedure whereby we proceed to the legal recognition of a person's sexual identity, without having that person fulfil conditions that he himself rejects. Since 2007, we have developed such a procedure through the law on transsexuality. However, the current legislative framework still provides for mandatory sterilisation, which, according to a judgment of 6 April 2017, is considered to be a disproportionate interference in private life and is thus contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. In the current design this condition has been deleted. The draft, however, is not only limited to removing this condition, i.e. gradual progress, but has also taken a leap towards the complete demedicalisation of sex re-gistration. As a symbol, that can count. Transformation is not a medical condition, not even with regard to the minor exercising his or her rights, which are strictly personal, if, of course, he or she has sufficient qualifications. That is the sole purpose of the medical certificate from the design. Ladies and gentlemen, it was and is extremely important for our group that the draft also pays due attention to privacy. We appreciate that the not so simple issue of pedigree is carefully regulated in the design. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to my conclusion. Our country has always been a pioneer in the recognition of individual fundamental rights. It was time for the transpersonals to follow this trend. The whole of my group will therefore approve this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u72	Mr President, when the government took office, it promised to change the law on transgenders in our country. Today it is time and we are very happy about it. The present design separates the name change from any medical treatment. The design enables transgenders to take an important step in their lives in all dignity. The draft also removes the fact that Belgium has broken European rules. This is a huge step forward, ladies and gentlemen. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating Minister Geens and Secretary of State Demir. One remark is that the piece, although it was written with a great deal of good will, does not yet fully testify to a broad emancipatory vision. A number of passages still breathe a protective vision, a little patronizing, if I may put it that way. That is why we also retable our amendment from the sp.a Group, which seeks to exclude any medical interference of any kind, including for 16- and 17-year-olds. The hearing was particularly interesting. I must honestly say that I had my reservations at the beginning and wondered whether, since it concerns minors, we should not respect the principle of caution. During the hearing, it became very clear to us, too, that all the experts in this area are in favour of this. That is why we are retabled in plenary today. Once again, the draft law as a whole represents a giant step, a giant step, which, as far as we know, appreciates the transgender movement and which we will approve with conviction. It's a giant step, which I was hoping we could make room today. Unfortunately, last week I learned from the media that this may not be the case and I am addressing my fellow Members of the N-VA. I deeply regret that and hope, along with the movement, that you have seen the light over the last few days and will be able to go along with that positive evolution in the vote. I have already understood from one of the statements made earlier that my hope is justified. There are still a few loose ends to the design, which we will certainly discuss in the future. Again, it is a big step and we are very pleased with it. We will vote for the draft law with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u73	Mr President, first of all, like my colleagues, I would like to join in the congratulations to the two Ministers, Mrs Demir and Mr Geens, for their excellent work and the excellent work of their collaborators who have given a real positive cleanliness, a substantive work that they have begun with the associations and a whole series of professionals. The text, although partially amended, was a very good text and a real development in relation to the legislation in force for 10 years now. I would like to thank the parties of the majority who have agreed to hold extremely interesting hearings, but which have mostly made it possible to hear the people concerned by the law who will be voting in a few minutes. The end of medicalization and psychiatrization was finally achieved and self-determination was promoted. One can change gender in the commune without having actually changed sex, which is very positive. This is what was requested by the people concerned, transgender people. There is, of course, this exception which we have discussed at length in committee, the exception which concerns minors between the ages of 16 and 18. It is the meaning of both Amendments Nos 17 and 18 that Mrs Gerkens, Mr Gerkens, said. Van Hecke and I have resubmitted the amendments at the moment. Amendment 17 is a maximalist amendment, which aims to bring the law that we are going to vote on into line with the law of 22 August 2002 on patient law. This Act gives a person who is sixteen or seventeen years of age the same right as a person who is now a major. This person can decide for himself, even if he is a minor. What is valid for a gender change, which is not a medical act, must be valid for any other medical dimension or not. The role of the child psychiatrist remains in the law. That is why we have tabled a second amendment, which is a compromise amendment. It aims to have the same role played by either the treating physician or the child psychiatrist. This means that a transgender person of sixteen and seventeen years of age will be able to go to his treating doctor to give this opinion, but without having to go through a child psychiatrist because we think that it is a step too far to have this role played by the child psychiatrist. It should be noted, however, that this period of adolescence or the end of adolescence, 16 and 17 years, is a particularly favourable period for gender change and sometimes hormone blocking treatments, since it is a time when there is no doubt that the transgender person has already formed his or her sexual identity. It would be interesting if even without surgery, transgender people aged 16 and 17 could start a process of transformation and change gender already in the commune, but also that they could change gender physically. We emphasize that the law has been amended so that gender change is no longer a standardized and legislated process! This refers to the violence of sterilization and mandatory hormonal treatments at the time. Today, medical or non-medical partners (which are not necessarily doctors) will be able to offer transgender people the opportunity to follow a personalized process according to their needs, desires and specificities, which is a great step forward. I think that Mrs Gerkens, our health lady in Ecolo, will be very careful that the state intervenes in certain operations, surgical or non-surgical operations: social security will have to play a role in accompaniment to transgender people undergoing various operations, not standardized but personalized. With the exception of minors between the ages of 16 and 18, the fate of transgender persons is greatly improved and is in line with the fundamental rights recognized in the European Convention on Human Rights, which is of paramount importance. Hearings reveal an element and a need. The one to which we do not respond by the law today, namely, the right of intersex persons who do not feel that they are men or women and who do not wish to become either, regardless of the sex imposed on them. Our society and our language, French or Dutch, are now very violent towards them. This violence will require another job: to amend the civil registration laws allowing these persons, eventually, to find, on their identity card, a letter other than M for man or V for vrouw or M for male and F for female. We can be proud, as democrats, both of the substance of our parliamentary work and the political work carried out upstream by the ministers, of the democratic process through the hearings that have taken place and to offer a new status to the people who so far were separate people. Today we are going to make them full citizens, and for that I can only congratulate us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after the law of 10 May 2007 on transsexuality, it was high time to address the problems posed by this law, such as compliance with international law on compulsory sterilization as a condition for changing sex. The principles of Yogyakarta, to which the government agreement refers, are indeed clear. No one may be forced to undergo medical procedures, including sex reassignment surgery, sterilization or hormonal therapy, as a condition of legal recognition of his gender identity. The United Nations and the Council of Europe have also adopted such positions. As for the European Court of Human Rights, its jurisprudence had evolved since the early 2000s, and finally considered that the condition of sterilization for transgender persons was contrary to human rights. It was therefore our responsibility to follow this evolution, to recognise full self-determination for transgender people, to no longer perceive trans identity as a disease, and to consider trans persons as persons capable of discernment and no longer as "the excluded from the excluded" – in the words of Françoise Tulkens, former Vice-President of the European Court of Human Rights and current Co-President of the Federal Commission for the Evaluation of Anti-Discrimination Laws. Subject to certain imperfections, which I will return to, this bill is in line with this by making several long-awaited amendments by civil society, heard in the Justice Committee on April 25. In making the choice to remove the medical criteria for the official change of sex registration and the change of first name, and to further protect the privacy of the persons concerned, clear answers are finally made to put an end to the social, economic and political exclusion of trans persons. My group is therefore pleased to support this bill for the principle that it stands for, but also for the adaptation that it has been able to achieve following these various hearings. The bill, the first draft, was criticized, for example, because, by making the change in the gender of transgender minors over 16 years of age conditional on a certificate issued by a child psychiatrist, the bill did not fulfil its promise that it would no longer submit them to a medical and psychiatric report. Not to mention that, in practice, this certificate will be added to the long list of obstacles that transes must overcome in order to be recognised first by their entourage and then by society as a whole. Following the hearings, a compromise was reached that this attestation should no longer relate to the enduring conviction that the sex mentioned in the birth certificate does not correspond to the gender identity lived intimately by the person but to the ability of discernment sufficient to have this lasting conviction. The possibility was also given to minors, whose representatives refused to assist him, to apply to the family court with the assistance of an ad hoc guardian. Of course, the project still suffers from imperfections. The project requires, for example, a reflection time of three to six months, during which the person must repeat his request in order to "fight against unthinking changes". The draft thus contradicts its good intention to give transgender people full self-determination and no longer consider them to be mentally ill or, at the very least, to be protected. It grants, in fact, what is more like conditioned faculties than real rights, whereas it is not up to the legislator to interfere in a choice as intimate as persons with legal capacity can perfectly take with full knowledge of the matter. Problem formulations in the eyes of the association Genres Pluriels also remained in the project, such as the notion of transsexual or gender change. The issue of minors under the age of 16 is also not addressed apart from the question of the change of first name, while many young people can become aware of their intersex or transgender identity at an early age. By their so-called "out-of-standard" situation, these young people are thus endowed with a great maturity that the project could have recognized. I therefore consider that if the project fails to fully free transgender people from the psychiatrization of their identity and enable them to be fully included in society, it takes, despite everything, a huge step that we can only support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u75	Mr President, I am very happy that, by adopting this draft law, we are making it possible for people who are more transgender to become themselves, without causing one or many medical problems. I would like to point out that the article on the case of a 16-year-old contains a total demedicalization of the problem. The only thing the psychiatrist must attest is that the young person in question is capable of making such a decision. The psychiatrist must not judge whether we are dealing with someone who is transgender. On the question of civil status, the committee discussed it in detail. The cases in which the civil servant can decide independently, without a negative opinion from the parquet office, that the decision should not be granted for the time being are listed in the preparatory works. Wilson's ability at the time of appearance before the official of civil status, mental illness or drunkenness or anything of that nature gives rise to the failure to comply with the decision requested of the civil servant. These are, therefore, exceptional cases which claim the responsibility of the official, but in all cases where the official takes such decisions, it must and must remain the normal rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can be brief. As Mr Geens has already said, this law has been thoroughly and carefully dealt with in committee and before. I would therefore like to reassure everyone, especially my predecessor Elke Sleurs, who has invested a lot of time and energy in this. I would also like to thank the civil society organisations, some of whom are here, for their input. This law is about being who one is, without having to meet many absurd and painful demands. She's about self-determination. This may be a small step for Parliament, but it is a big step for those involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u77	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2403/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2403/5) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title has been amended by the Commission into a bill reforming regimes relating to transgender persons with regard to the reference to a change in the registration of sex in civil status and its effects". The draft law has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u79	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u80	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2 and 4 to 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u81	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Eric Thiébaut, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u83	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2416/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2416/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u84	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u85	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 May 2017, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck) amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance as regards organ donation, No. 52/1 and the bill (Mrs Catherine Fonck) on the protection of workers who are organ donors, No. 501/1, to be referred to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal in order to add it to the proposal for a resolution (Mrs Catherine Fonck) calling for the removal of obstacles to organ donations by living donors, by ensuring the reimbursement of all medical costs borne by the donor and providing for compensation for loss of income, No. 49/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 May 2017, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society the proposal for a law (Ms Catherine Fonck) amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 concerning organ donation, No 52/1, and the proposal for a law (Ms Catherine Fonck) on protection against the dismissal of organ donor workers, No 501/1, in order to attach them to the motion for a resolution (Ms Catherine Fonck) to remove the obstacles to the donation of organs of living persons by introducing the treatment of all medical expenses borne by the donor and by providing compensation for the loss of income, No 49/1. These proposals were previously sent to the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Small Business and Agriculture and to the Committee for Social Affairs. These proposals had previously been referred to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture and the Committee on Social Affairs. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u86	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of the members of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. The next item is the election for the appointment of the members of the Disciplinary Council of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission. In accordance with Article 38 of the Act of 8 January 2012 amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, a Disciplinary Board is hereby established which may, in certain cases, terminate the mandate of the Chairman or one or more members of the Management Committee of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas (CREG). In accordance with Article 38 of the Law of 8 January 2012 amending the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipeline, a Disciplinary Council is established which, in certain cases, may terminate the term of office of the Chairman or one or more members of the Management Committee of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CRE). The Disciplinary Board shall consist of a chairman and two members, all magistrates, elected by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. One member is Dutch-speaking, the other French-speaking. For members, the Chamber of Representatives should appoint alternates. The Disciplinary Council consists of a President and two members, all judges, who are elected by the House of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. One member is French-speaking, the other is Dutch-speaking. The House of Representatives shall appoint alternates for the members. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 4 May 2017. Nominations were announced in plenary on 4 May 2017. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed (Doc. 2485/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (Doc. No 2485/1). We shall begin with the appointment of the effective members of the Disciplinary Board. We begin with the appointment of the actual members of the Disciplinary Council. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. To vote one has to place a cross in the box next to the name of the chosen candidate. The votes cast shall be invalid on more than one candidate per mandate. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. The votes cast in favour of more than one candidate per term are invalid. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Nawal Ben Hamou en Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u87	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u88	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Fabienne Winckel cs on article 3. (2403/7) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Fabienne Winckel cs to Article 3. (2403/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[40]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 124 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u89	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 21 by Fabienne Winckel cs on article 3. (2403/7) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Fabienne Winckel cs to Article 3. (2403/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 17 by Benoit Hellings cs on Article 3. (2403/6) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Benoit Hellings cs to Article 3. (2403/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 18 by Benoit Hellings cs on Article 3. (2403/6) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Benoit Hellings cs to Article 3. (2403/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u90	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Karin Jiroflée cs on Article 3. (2403/7) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Karin Jiroflée cs to Article 3. (2403/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[40]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u91	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2403/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2403/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u92	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u93	Mr President, our group cannot approve this draft law for two reasons. First of all, we do not agree with the specific status of firefighters in Brussels, which is not the case in the rest of the country. We also know that politically-historically it has grown this way, through the Brussels agglomeration, but that does not mean that we have to honour the cooperation agreement. A second fundamental objection is that language legislation is not being complied with today by the Brussels fire department. The bilingual nature of services today is totally incompatible with the current status of central services, which applies to them. A change in the language status is needed to make that service effectively bilingual. During the next few weeks, hearings will be held in our house by the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control on the violations of the language law by the Brussels fire department. It would therefore have been much better to await these hearings and to incorporate a solution to the problem into the cooperation agreement. That is why our group will not support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u94	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 124 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2416/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2416/4) We shall suspend the sitting for a moment, pending the outcome of the secret vote just now. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u95	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u96	Votes 119 Votants Blank or invalid 5 White or invalid Valid 114 Valables Perfect majority 58 Absolute majority
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u97	Mr Kristiaan Dehing received 2 votes Mr Kristiaan Dehing obtained 2 votes Mr Hans Van Bossuyt received 111 votes Mr Hans Van Bossuyt obtained 111 votes Since Mr Hans Van Bossuyt has received 111 votes, which is the absolute majority, he has been appointed an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. Mr Hans Van Bossuyt, having obtained 111 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective Dutch-speaking member of the Disciplinary Council of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission. Consequently, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kristiaan Dehing has been appointed as Dutch-speaking Deputy Member of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. Pursuant to rule 157.6 of the House's Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kristiaan Dehing is therefore appointed a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Disciplinary Council of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u98	Mr Eric Robert received 112 votes Mr Eric Robert won 112 votes Mr Dejan Savatic received 0 votes Mr Dejan Savatic obtained 0 votes in favour Since Mr Eric Robert received 112 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed an effective French-speaking member of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission on Electricity and Gas Regulations. Mr. Eric Robert, having obtained 112 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective Francophone member of the Disciplinary Council of the Commission de Regulation de l'Electricité et du Gaz. Consequently, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dejan Savatic has been appointed a French-speaking deputy member of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. Pursuant to rule 157.6 of the House's Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dejan Savatic is, therefore, appointed as a Francophone alternate member of the Disciplinary Council of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-plenair-ip170x.u99	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 1 June 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 1 June 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Thursday, 1 June 2017, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 1 June 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
