ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u1	The interplay No. 154 of Mrs Pas has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the anti-Belgian climate that has prevailed in Burundi for the past few weeks following accusations of human rights violations. While several officials verbally attacked Belgium on Thursday 8 December, it was reported that the Burundian ambassador to Belgium had been called back in consultation in Bujumbura. A few days later, it appears that several searches were carried out by the Burundian police in the presence of the Belgian consul in a building known to house many Belgian nationals. It would appear that the purpose of these searches was to search all apartments and check passports. Minister, can you give us the latest information in your possession about these searches, in particular the reasons why the Burundian police carried them out? Have you had any recent contact with your Burundian counterpart on the current situation? If so, can you debrief us for this exchange?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u3	Mr Crusnière, a series of searches took place on 15 December 2016 in the residential area called "Les appartements du lac" where several Belgian nationals reside. The consul of this post, once notified, was present until the writing of the minutes at about 12:15 p.m. We have not been informed of the precise reason for these searches, but this type of operation has been recurrent in Bujumbura for several months. I confirm, however, that the apartments occupied by diplomatic staff were not searched. They are covered by the inviolability guaranteed by the Vienna Convention. I have not had direct contact with my colleague since the last La Francophonie summit, but we concluded at the time that despite the difficult period of Belgian-Burundian relations, it was important to keep the channels of communication open between our two countries. It is in this context that my services and our ambassador on the spot have regular contacts with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other important members of the Burundian authorities. Burundi is extremely sensitive to the signals sent by Belgium, the former colonial power, which often explains the disproportionate reactions of the Burundian authorities. It is by maintaining a frank and open dialogue that we will succeed in removing misunderstandings and that we will be able to help Burundians get out of the crisis they are going through. It is up to them, as I reminded my colleague at La Francophonie meetings, to find themselves in an inclusive dialogue that can involve the opposition as widely as possible. With regard to the searches that have taken place, as I have told you, we have not had any more details on the reasons, but this is not anomalous in the judicial proceedings, including in our country, but, in any case, consular arrangements have been made. The consul was on site and the apartments occupied by staff of the diplomatic substatus were not searched. However, on the ambient climate, we have had the opportunity to react on numerous occasions, asking that the Burundian authorities be able to call for calm rather than to throw oil on the fire, as has sometimes been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer and clarification. The situation in Burundi, of course, remains dramatic. As we know, the population continues to suffer enormously and I hope that, since we are at the beginning of the year, 2017 will make some progress on this issue. Hopefully, the situation continues to worsen and the suspension of European and Belgian aid is damaging to the population. I therefore hope that we will see some progress on this issue in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u5	Mr President, Minister, President Kabila's mandate ended on 19 December. As you know, there have been no elections to designate a successor. Kabila and his entourage have opted for a gratification, with several reasons for not having elections taking place. Kabila is clearly clinging to power. Since 19 December, Congo has clearly been in an unconstitutional situation. The EU has also taken an important step by imposing sanctions against a number of Congolese people. The US had taken such a step before. Among other things, the sanctions came at the pressure of Belgium, for which we appreciate. Of course, the fear of manifestations is permanent. Many civil society organisations, in the Congo, and also in the opposition, hold their hearts. There has been conciliation and a transitional arrangement has been reached. That happened after the question was submitted. I have a number of questions about this. Can you explain more about the bishops' mediation efforts and the transitional arrangements that have been achieved? What specific expectations do you have of the announced European sanctions? How will Belgium concretely promote inclusive dialogue, including the holding of elections in the course of 2017? How much do you estimate the risk of an escalation of violence in Congo? How can this be avoided? To what extent does the situation weigh on the bilateral relations between Congo and our country? What are the consequences of the visa measure you recently took, whereby Congolese diplomats can only obtain a six-month visa? Are there other indications that bilateral relations are deteriorating? What are the possible consequences for the Belgians in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u6	I just want to make a mistake. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 15590 was accidentally placed on this agenda, but it is intended for Minister De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u7	Minister, I would like to ask you about the agreement reached on 31 December with a view to an inclusive transition and the holding of new elections in 2017 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This agreement provides that President Joseph Kabila, whose term of office ended in principle on 19 December, will remain at the head of the country and will not be replaced until after the election of his successor. In return, the opposition received satisfaction on two points: the creation of a National Transitional Council chaired by the historic opponent Etienne Tshisekedi and the appointment of a Prime Minister from the coalition known as the "Reassembly of the Opposition". The agreement also provides for an end to the prosecution of several political prisoners. A commission of high-ranking magistrates will soon be set up for careful consideration, on a case-by-case basis, of political and opinion prisoners and beneficiaries of the last amnesty law, but who have not yet been released. The reopening of the media is also mentioned in this agreement, which will be implemented in the coming days. You welcomed this agreement, which organizes management towards an inclusive transition. In an interview, you rightly stated that "Belgium will be attentive to the implementation of this text, as well as to the measures that will be taken to restore democratic space and rights and freedoms, so that all opinions can be expressed in the country and that the elections can be an authentic reflection of the aspirations of the Congolese people". Of course, we share your point of view. Minister, what do you think of the evolution of the situation? Do you intend to propose Belgium's potential support for the organisation and effective holding of the elections scheduled for December 2017 if the implementation of the agreement of 31 December and the restoration of the democratic space and respect for rights and freedoms are effective? What will Belgium's 3D approach be in this area, particularly in terms of logistics? Do you intend to discuss this issue with your European counterparts with a view to monitoring the preparation and organisation of the presidential elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u8	Mr President, Minister, Mr Crusnière has already referred to the long-awaited agreement that was reached on 31 December under the guidance of the Episcopal Conference, the CENCO, and which was negotiated by the opposition. That agreement states that President Kabila can remain in power until the end of 2017, after which elections must take place, and that the government will be led by the opposition in the interim period. As my colleague said, it is important that a new Prime Minister be appointed and that a follow-up committee be set up with regard to the agreement. A third important element, which was not mentioned, is that it is the first time that President Kabila will no longer participate in the elections. He said that himself. That's not unimportant. By means of a press release, you said you were pleased with the agreement and also called for a significant increase in operational and financial transparency, which will create the conditions for good management and external support, which is currently lacking. I suspect you are talking about the CENI, the electoral commission, which is a bit critical of corruption and so on. It's just that body that's gonna have to prepare for the election. The question is how the situation is evolving today. Minister, how do you estimate the scope of the agreement reached within the political world in Congo? There are still opposition parties who haven't signed it. What's their weight today? Can this call into question the agreement? What is the impact of the agreement on the security situation in Congo? What is the impact of the agreement on the measures taken against the Congolese Government, in particular the EU sanctions, which have absolutely done their job with regard to reaching a new agreement? Is our country considering supporting the preparations for the elections? What precise conditions are attached to this? December's approach to human rights concerns young people. Can you estimate whether the agreement reached will improve on human rights in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 31 December 2016, a comprehensive and inclusive political agreement was reached between different Congolese parties, following a dialogue facilitated by the National Episcopal Conference of the Congo (CENCO). This compromise contains the elements of an exit from the political and institutional crisis in the country, a crisis caused by the non-organisation – we must remember – of the presidential elections in 2016, as prescribed by the Constitution. It is an important and positive step towards a short inclusive transition with a prospect of elections and the reopening of the democratic space. This agreement is the result of collective work. First of all, there is strong internal pressure from civil society, citizen movements and the Congolese population, which aspires not only to the holding of elections as soon as possible, but also to the improvement of its living conditions and to the assurance of its security throughout the territory. We can then mention the perseverance of the National Episcopal Conference of the Congo, which we have supported and which we congratulate on the enormous work done. The constructive engagement of the country's main political forces should also be commended. The majority finally agreed that the President would not be able to stand for a third term. And the opposition has agreed that the current president will remain in office until the elections that are expected to take place this year. I call on all actors to support the agreement, as the major players, the Rally, the parties of the presidential majority, the MLC and Vital Kamerhe, have already done. Finally, let us not forget the commitment and cohesion of the international community. It was above all at this level that Belgium played its part in its diplomatic efforts, mainly within the European Union, through the adoption, for example, of individual sanctions against law enforcement officials in the security system, but also in close cooperation with the members of the United Nations Security Council and our partners, such as the United States, and the countries of the region, such as Angola and the Congo-Brazzaville. Our Special Envoy for the Great Lakes Region and our embassies maintain close contact with all stakeholders. I myself have had a number of contacts with the main players in the Congolese debate. The agreement must now be faithfully implemented, which requires the negotiation of a particular arrangement. I call on the negotiators to continue their work constructively and to resolve quickly all outstanding issues, in particular the practical arrangements for the inclusive management of the executive during pre-election and electoral periods. A first test will be carried out on the occasion of the appointment as soon as possible – that is, for us, before the end of January – of a new Prime Minister proposed by the Gathering and the establishment of a National Council to follow up the agreement and the electoral process. During the transition period, all State institutions will derive their legitimacy from both their inclusiveness and their ability to fully implement the agreement. It provides for a series of descriptors such as the end of the prosecution of several political prisoners – as you have recalled – the reopening of the media and the end of the duplication of certain political formations, a practice that is not new in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Belgium will continue to monitor closely the restoration of democratic space and rights and freedoms. In recent weeks, there have been too many victims and too many arbitrary arrests. It is important that all opinions be expressed in a peaceful manner. That is why I strongly condemned the Congolese government's decision to expel two Belgian television teams. In my contacts with the Congolese authorities, I called for respect for the right to information. I welcome the few advances in human rights, such as the release of a few members of the citizen movements and the recent authorization for Human Rights Watch representative Ida Sawyer to return to the Congo. However, many issues still need to be resolved, including the fate of some opposition leaders such as Moïse Katumbi. With regard to the electoral process, the path towards the effective holding of elections in 2017 will not be easy. We expect the new authorities to speed up preparations for the elections in order to meet the deadlines laid down in the agreement. This requires stepping up operations and making them more efficient. Furthermore, we call on Congolese institutions to significantly increase the operational and budgetary transparency of the elections in order to create the conditions of governance that are lacking today. These are the two necessary conditions, in addition to respecting the agreement of the Saint-Sylvestre, for external support of the electoral process, which I also call for. Apart from the political situation, I am also very concerned about the socio-economic and security situation. The growth forecast for 2017 is slightly more than 2%, which is too little for a country such as the DRC, given the huge increase in population. The reserves of the National Bank seem to be less and less able to support the Congolese franc and cover the foreign exchange reserves. The country is mainly dependent on imports for the main food products. If inflation were to continue to increase, it could have a major political impact. In the last week of 2016, we saw new areas of conflict spread all over the country, including in Boma, Kananga and the former Equator Province. The message from the Governor of North Kivu that some 200 re-armed ex-M23 elements would have crossed the DRC border from Uganda is alarming. We encourage both countries to activate the existing regional mechanisms, such as those of the CEGL, to verify that information and to find the reasons and solutions for it. Let it be clear, the socio-economic and security problems must not be invoked to justify delays in the implementation of the agreement. On the contrary, they have made the need for a rapid appointment of an elected, legitimate government, which can tackle the problems in a sustainable way, even more urgent. Just as the conclusion of the agreement was a collective achievement of the actors involved, implementation will ultimately depend on the joint efforts of the Congolese authorities, the opposition, the Church, civil society and the international community. On 20 December, following the expiry of the constitutional mandate of the President, I, together with my colleague in Development Cooperation, stated that there could be no business as usual for our country in our relations with the Democratic Republic of Congo. Now that an inclusive agreement has been reached, our country will remain vigilant about its implementation. As part of its mandate, the new transition government deserves our full support. Our relations will be dominated by the timely organisation of elections. So we will not enter into a new long-term commitment. We also hope that the new transition government will soon make better arrangements for further guaranteeing the security of our postal network and the fellow countrymen present. In any case, I can confirm that the security of our compatriots has never been compromised during the past crisis period. I would like to thank all the Belgian services in Brussels, Kinshasa and Lubumbashi for their availability and commitment during the Christmas period. The travel advice for the DRC has been relaxed in the meantime, but all non-essential travel is not recommended for the time being. Our country will act in the coming weeks mainly in a multilateral context, together with the EU partners, the UN Security Council and the region, to help ensure the follow-up to the agreement. An important moment will be the renewal of UN Security Council Resolution 2277. For example, we believe that, in the run-up to the forthcoming elections, MONUSCO should play a more important role in the security of citizens in the east but also in large cities. The UN must also play a more visible and stronger role in the elections. I will conclude by saying that we will continue to implement the decisions that have been taken, in particular in terms of sanctions at European level. Having said that, there is obviously no question of speculating for the moment on the decisions that we could take if the agreement were not implemented correctly. We want to do everything we can to make it happen. Similarly, as I have asked since the beginning of the discussions, it is important that the elections take place this year, not – as had been imagined at some point – whether they be postponed in spring or autumn 2018. That would of course make no sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u11	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I believe that we must indeed welcome the agreement that has been reached and also stress the fact that it is an intra-Congolese agreement. They didn't need any foreign emissary to get around the table and be able to negotiate. It is an element to be noted and a lesson also perhaps to be learned for the future. This agreement had the merit of temporarily appeasing minds. But, as you have said, we must continue to be vigilant about the follow-up to this agreement, among other things – I also agree with you – about many unknowns that remain. I am thinking of the case of Moses Katumbi who will still have to be decided. I draw all the more attention to the vigilance that even now, a few days after this agreement, within the majority, it is already understood that any delay in the formation of a possible government may indeed be reflected in the organisation of the elections at the end. We are already talking about elections that cannot be held in December because we have already lost almost a month. The pressure will have to continue to be put on this to insist that they be kept on time. It is also known that there is a problem with the electoral register. According to some reports, in some provinces, this is progressing pretty well. But there is also a risk, at some point, of the problem of financing. I hear what you said. It is always open under two conditions that you have clearly explained. However, I come back to the proposal for tranche funding that I incorporated into the resolution that this Parliament voted on last July. Indeed, I would not like them to use the excuse of non-financing to say that they are unable to organise the elections and cause a postponement. Eventually, let's start working in tranches, the first one that can be used to finalize, as I have already said, the electoral file, with concrete results in order to be able to release other things. What I would not like is for them to find again this excuse for a Belgian and European non-financing and other possible donors to postpone the elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your extensive explanation. Indeed, no business as usual, we did not do that with the Belgian Government. The ingredients of Belgian cooperation with Congo were vigilance, pressure and cooperation in an international context. That is a good attitude which must be continued in the light of this agreement. I can say that Belgium has really adopted a good attitude towards Congo. Our resolution has also contributed to this. This has had its effect, including in the area of sanctions, in order to reach an agreement quickly. It is important, as you emphasise, to continue to cooperate internationally, both at European level and through the UN and MONUSCO. Those are elements that we need to work on. On the other hand, you also refer to this operational and financial transparency. A prime minister must first be appointed. Then the follow-up committee must be designated. Nevertheless, an important element remains the CENI, which must ensure a chronogram for the elections and make clear what is needed. That clarity is not yet available today. There too, we must be very vigilant. As Mr Crusnière said, and as we have also mentioned in the resolution, we have to work per disk, per tranche, to see how we are moving forward. We have to look at that week after week. I hope that the other opposition parties, which I do not think are so large, will not undermine the agreement and thus release Kabila. However, I suspect that this will not happen and I hope that the pressure on those smaller parties will be maintained so that there will be no further instability in Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u13	Mr Fonck has been detained in the Committee on Social Affairs, her question No. 15527 is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 15531 of myself is converted into a written question. Questions Nos 15555 and 15564 by Mr Blanchart are postponed to his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation of the Belgian Métis. During the colonial and post-colonial period, many so-called mulatto children were snatched from their mothers by force and raised in specific orphanages. From 1960, on the pretext of danger following the violent unrest that followed Congo's independence, the Congolese State gave the missionaries full latitude to plan for the immediate evacuation of the Métis to Belgium. Today, these children have become adults who legitimately wish to find their brothers, sisters and mother. Minister, can you tell me what means you could use to help these people in their research? Can you tell me whether your services communicate documents to the Community central authorities at the request of the Community? Does your FPS have records in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u15	Mr Crusnière, I am familiar with the Métis issue in Belgium. These files are also known by my services, such as the Children of Save, a mission in Rwanda, south of Butare. In the past, the Department's archives have already been consulted and have helped to build some files on the basis of the documents in their possession. The Privacy Data Protection Act restricts access to these files with personal content, except for those directly concerned. There are therefore no obstacles to the consultation of their files by the parties themselves. In addition, the archives department has been working for many years with the Flemish Adoption Centre and its French-speaking counterpart in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to make the files available for those sent by these two organisations. We will continue to do so. The Archives Department also authorized and supported the creation of a nominative inventory of files by a history researcher, Ms. Sara Eisen (?). I confirm that I attach great importance to these files and will continue to respond positively to any requests for information, and in particular to any requests for access to our African archives. I would point out that our posts in the region are also available to those who would like to receive support to search for a number of concrete elements on the spot. These are obviously very sensitive files, but access to the data remains completely open for those who wish to search for documents that were contained in our archives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. Many of us have been approached by associations that deserve our support. I take note of your reply, which I will not fail to convey to them, stating that they can benefit from the support of our diplomatic post on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u17	Under items 13 and 14 there are questions from Mr Van Hees, who has just been present in this committee. I assume he'll turn up later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u18	Mr President, I introduced this question six weeks ago, but the timing is perfect since the minister is coming back from the peace conference in Paris. This will be an opportunity to reshape my question a little from the original question. Minister, following the latest proposals by the international community to move the peace process forward, Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu refused to participate in this conference, despite the participation of Russia, the major Arab countries, the European Union, China and the United States. I really think it was very important, despite the fact that the United States had some reservations. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to take stock of how our country has contributed to this work. What progress has been made? How will things evolve? I understand that following the Paris conference held on 3 June 2016, a new conference was to be held with both sides in order to relaunch the negotiations. Meetings on the incidents in which Belgium participated, announced on 3 June, advanced in the following three areas: the perception by civil societies of the importance of the two-State solution, economic incentives in the event of a peace agreement and the internal consolidation of the future Palestinian State. Have any progress been made? I will stick to that, since I know that my colleague will have more questions, perhaps in different directions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u19	Minister, there are three of my questions. What is your assessment of the French initiative? How can Belgian and European diplomacy be followed up? Were the possible consequences of Mr Trump's future presidency on the resumption of the peace process mentioned? In what sense did the discussions take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, of course I consider that the conference on the Middle East peace process organized by France was very timely. That's why I personally attended. That conference served as a reminder of the broad consensus within the international community that a just, real and lasting peace can only be based on the vision of the two States, with the State of Israel and an independent, democratic, one-tenant, sovereign and viable Palestinian State living alongside Israel in peace, security and mutual recognition. This solution is now threatened by developments on the ground and, more particularly, by the continuation and acceleration of the colonization of the occupied territories. That is precisely why it was useful to recall these principles and to stress that the two parties must demonstrate, through their policies and actions, their commitment to this two-State solution, in particular by refraining from any action that would jeopardize the viability of this solution. The joint communiqué, adopted by seventy countries and international organizations on Sunday, reflects the international community's consensus on this issue, which in itself is of great importance. It would of course have been preferable for both sides to be present at the conference, which unfortunately did not prove possible. We hope, however, that the messages of this conference will be heard on the ground and that it will be possible in the near future to move towards a resumption of real negotiations aimed at ending this conflict. As regards follow-up, the joint communiqué of the conference refers, on the one hand, to closer cooperation between the Arab League and the Quartet and, on the other hand, to a new meeting to be held before the end of the year with interested participants. The consequences of the new US administration's assumption of office on the peace process have not been directly addressed, certainly not in the presence of the current US administration, since John Kerry, the current US Secretary of State, participated in this conference. In this regard, we will expect actions that are likely to be taken and I would therefore now refrain from reacting to speculations and measures that we do not know if they will actually be undertaken. We have already participated in the preparation and will continue to work on the implementation of the conclusions of this conference. In preparation, we participated in the working group on economic incentives for the Palestinian territories. This enabled us to hold a meeting in Brussels last December of Israeli and Palestinian business leaders, both from the West Bank and Gaza, with Belgian business leaders to determine the extent to which concrete projects could be implemented. We will continue to work to encourage such rapprochements, whether in the economic or other fields; I believe that a number of bridges must be maintained between populations on both sides because the walls are built. The walls are there and if we do not take this kind of initiative, they will not only be concrete, but they will also be increasingly anchored in the heads of most of the people present in the region. I also had the opportunity to take part in a first follow-up since the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union met yesterday. On that occasion, it was decided to reaffirm the position that was known and already contained in the conclusions adopted earlier. Anyway, I have three elements. Firstly, there is the reaffirmation, including by the European Union, of the need for a two-State solution. I will not take up all the elements that I mentioned to you earlier. Secondly, we are convinced that this solution can only be implemented through direct negotiations. It is not a question of imposing anything on the different parties. It is a question of asking for a meeting between the parties and for a direct dialogue between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Thirdly, we will do everything – we intend to come back to the subject in February at the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union – to see what are the conditions for direct negotiations between the two sides. In this context, it is clear that contacts with the new US administration will be essential. Direct negotiations will not be possible without the support and active involvement of other partners, including the new US administration. Indeed, the latter is not the only one that will have to intervene. At the Security Council level, all P5 members, in particular, should be able to do so. That is what I can say about this conference and the work that the Foreign Ministers of the European Union have already done yesterday. If we want to influence a dialogue - but it is never simple - the European Union must speak with one voice. Conclusions were adopted in previous Councils. We must stick to these conclusions and try to take joint initiatives. If this is not the case, we will weigh very little on the process. For the rest, as I said, I don't want to comment on speculation. There's plenty of them all the time. Every day we learn new elements about the possible attitude of the new US administration. I invite you to wait for the inauguration that will take place on Friday and to see what the first concrete actions will be. In any case, we intend to organise a meeting between the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union and the new US Secretary of State. In addition, a NATO summit should be held in Brussels, in the new NATO building, in the first half of this year in the presence of the new US President. I am convinced, knowing the professional career of the President-elect, that his assessment of Europe and NATO will evolve when he finds that we meet in both cases in new buildings: the NATO building and the Europa building of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u21	Minister, thank you for all this information. Indeed, in view of the conference, you have been very exhaustive. That's encouraging. I can only encourage you to continue this process: to weigh our weight in the European institutions in order to contribute to a possible solution with regard to the situation in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u22	Minister, thank you for the answers. We will closely monitor developments in this area. On the other hand, I am not sure I understood the commitment. Is it possible to try to organize another meeting during 2017 in order to sit Palestinians and Israelis around the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u23	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u24	That's right! Okay!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u25	Minister, we are on the eve of the implementation of the Brexit. Negotiations in this area may take longer than one evening or one day. They will start under Malta's presidency, which is still part of the Commonwealth and the smallest Member State in Europe. Perhaps that will also play a role in the coming months in the way the Brexit will emerge from the starting blocks. On the same eve, Ivan Rogers very unexpectedly announced his resignation. It was clear that he was never really in favour of a withdrawal and his comments on the fact that the negotiations might take a long time were also blamed on him. It is suspected that Article 50 will be invoked at the end of March. His resignation three months before the start of the initial diplomatic negotiations is a remarkable fact. Mr Minister, we have questions about this. Do you share our concern? Will the dismissal not compromise the precarious, complex negotiations? This afternoon, Prime Minister May clearly countered the situation. She has expressed her preference for a hard Brexit. It does not go halfway through; it wants to see things clearly separated; it wants good economic cooperation but it wants to be able to make its own choices at international level. Minister, do you think that the vanguard discussion with the resignation of Ivan Rogers will have an impact on the negotiations? Do you still believe in the strength of the current team to enter into negotiations? Do you think that the model that is being started should be adjusted? Would you, therefore, like to talk about this at European level? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u26	Mr Minister, Mr Luyckx has already referred to it: today Prime Minister May gave a speech in which she indicated the direction of the Brexit. It will be a hard Brexit and it will be chosen no longer to be a member of the European Economic Area. It also says that it will not opt for the free movement of persons and workers and chooses to leave the European single market. It is true that it wants to focus on free trade agreements and speaks threatening language if we do not agree with the European Union on free trade agreements. Indeed, we are in a very difficult situation because of the choice of a hard Brexit from the United Kingdom. Our country has always said that the free movement of persons must always be part of the EU-United Kingdom agreement. What impact will this have on the negotiations, which have yet to begin, within the framework outlined by Mrs May? There is the threatening language that, if the United Kingdom did not have access to the European market, it would turn to fiscal competition. Can you explain this statement and explain the impact of that attitude on the EU's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u27	Mr President, my answer also includes the answer to the question put by Mr Blanchart, who is currently absent. So it's a mixed text. I shall begin with the questions relating to the resignation of the Permanent Representative of Great Britain. The resignation of Sir Ivan Rogers, the former Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the European Union, is an internal matter. The following day, British Prime Minister Theresa May appointed a successor in the person of Sir Tim Barrow, a career diplomat who, like his predecessor, is familiar with European affairs. It therefore seems unlikely that this resignation will have an impact on the start date of the negotiations or on the subsequent progress of the negotiation process. Finally, the appointment of a new representative of the United Kingdom to the European institutions does not affect our bilateral relations. The negotiations on the European side will also be conducted by the Commission, with former European Commissioner Michel Barnier as the main negotiator. The Council Secretariat will also play an important role in this. The officials who will conduct these negotiations often have years of experience and expertise in European negotiations. There has already been contact between the former European Commissioner, Michel Barnier and Prime Minister Charles Michel to see how we can follow up the negotiations. So far there has been no notification by the United Kingdom of the application of Article 50 of the Treaty, so that negotiations or pre-negotiation are not yet possible. It is therefore too early to comment on the possible scenarios that have so far been published in the press. As far as Prime Minister Theresa May's statements today are concerned, this is no surprise. There are some elements. Firstly, there is a decision to leave the internal market. Since the United Kingdom referendum, we have said that it was possible to participate in the internal market with respect for the four freedoms. I have read and heard that the UK Government is choosing to leave the internal market. Perhaps this is related to the fourth freedom for them. Secondly, the same reasoning is followed for the customs union. It is therefore virtually impossible for Britain to be a member or remain a member of the customs union. The Prime Minister has suggested the possibility of a trade agreement, as with other third countries. However, this is part of another process. I can only repeat that we will not start anything before a notification on the basis of Article 50. There are still some possible procedures in Britain, including a ruling by the Supreme Court and a possible vote in Parliament, but this is an internal matter. Thirdly, after notification at the end of March, we can start the negotiations for the way-out. Only then can negotiations for a new relationship with Great Britain be launched. I have already had contacts with fellow Members of this House on this matter. Yesterday, before the European Council of Foreign Affairs, I had contact with my colleague from Scotland, and I received a very interesting response. I've also been in touch with Ireland. However, we cannot start anything without Britain's notification. Then, with regard to the evolution of the Brexit negotiations, there is a decision at internal level in Belgium to organise a follow-up process with the Consultation Committee. At the next meeting of the Consultation Committee, we will be in contact with the Regions and Communities on the Brexit. I will also talk about this at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Foreign Affairs. Preparatory exercises have already been carried out in the field of economics and other departments. We will follow this process with Foreign Affairs in cooperation with our fellow Members from the Regions and Communities, as well as with the Consultative Committee. So now we are in the preparatory phase. We must wait for Britain's notification. Following the way-out negotiations, negotiations for the new relationship will begin. I now have some experience with international trade agreements. I will take a little rest for the internal negotiations in Belgium with a view to a possible trade agreement with Great Britain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u28	I share your view, Minister, that it is perhaps rather a political shot, with a view to making a number of points politically clear before the effective negotiations begin. Perhaps Prime Minister May also wants to clarify politics and tell companies and investors that the negotiations will not last long, so that everyone knows quickly where he or she is going. Eventually, the proof of the pudding in the eating will be. This chapter, which will start under Malta's presidency, will probably provide much discussion in this committee and will be followed in particular by our group. As has already been said in plenary, a Brexit and the whole story as it stands today are not necessarily a weakening for Europe, but an opportunity. However, good, lasting cooperation in any form whatsoever, in any agreement, must be taken into account, so that the economic links between the United Kingdom and Europe, and our country in particular, are preserved as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u29	Thank you for your reply, Minister. When I hear this story like this, I do think it is important that the negotiations should have two thoughts. One thought will be that we want to defend the European story, and you spoke just now about the four freedoms, which are indeed an objective of the negotiations. The other thought will be the economic thought that we will have to keep in mind. If I understand you correctly, you said just now: we will first let the United Kingdom leave the EU and then we will negotiate trade agreements. I believe that this is certainly a dangerous way, which will create a great deal of uncertainty for our companies. We must try to guarantee trade with the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom is our country's fourth largest trading partner. This will therefore be an important aspect for our country in the negotiations with the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u30	Ik wiléén could be preciseren. An important part of the negotiations will also cover the transition period. It is true, we want to negotiate the way-out first and then negotiate a new relationship. I don't know how long they'll last, but between them, we have to organize the transition. That is also a question from Prime Minister May, not only from the European Union. I believe that the transition period will be very important, first and foremost for the companies, but actually for everyone. At the moment, following Prime Minister May's statement, it is important to say that we want to negotiate as quickly as possible the exit from the internal market, the customs union and so on, but then we want to negotiate the organisation of the transition period until there is a new relationship. The discussions on the transition will be very important, I believe, for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u31	Both questions were attached to the firm's request for a consolidated response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u32	Mr President, Minister, Resolution 2334 was voted in the UN, urging Israel to "stop immediately and completely all settlement activity in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem". In the Security Council, the United States has refrained from vetoing this resolution. It should be recalled that, for decades, Israel has been constantly flouting Palestinian rights and international law. Colonization has continued to develop. Since 1993, it has increased from about 300,000 settlers in the West Bank to almost 600,000 today. The Israeli Parliament is in the process of adopting a bill simply providing for the legalization of houses built for Israeli settlers in the occupied West Bank on Palestinian private land. These include not only all Jewish settlements, but also outposts created by extremist settlers on Palestinian private lands. Since the vote on the resolution, Mr Netanyahu and the Israeli Government have reacted by not only warning that they will not comply with this resolution, but also that they will punish those who voted for the text. They had already ordered "a series of diplomatic measures" against New Zealand and Senegal, which had obtained a vote at the United Nations. You yourself welcomed this resolution, Minister, on behalf of Belgium. This is indeed a good thing. However, we must not be fooled by illusions: a resolution will not be enough to change the course of Israeli policy, which is still widely supported by the West. The decision of the United States to grant Israel an unprecedented $38 billion in military aid in ten years symbolizes this support. My questions, Minister, are as follows. What do you think of the attitude of the Israeli Prime Minister and his government? How will Belgium react? While Mr Netanyahu has clearly announced that he will not comply with this resolution, what will Belgium undertake to enforce this UN resolution? What initiatives and possible sanctions will it take against Israel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u33	Mr.President, Minister, in 2016, Israeli settlements expanded very sharply. Construction of new settlement units increased by 40 per cent in the first six months of the year. On 23 December 2016, the United Nations Security Council, as we have just heard, adopted a historic resolution on the illegality of Israeli settlement policy. Fourteen countries supported the resolution. The United States abstained in the vote. Resolution 2334 calls for an immediate freeze on Israeli colonization and calls on the Member States of the United Nations to pursue a clear policy of differentiation. As a reminder, our assembly also adopted a resolution on November 24, 2016, calling on the federal government to deepen the policy of differentiation. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. What concrete steps do you intend to take to implement United Nations Security Council resolution 2334 and our Assembly's resolution on "Belgium's support for a resumption of the Middle East peace process", in particular on request 4? The request concerned differentiation and called on the federal government to encourage, at the European and bilateral levels, the deepening of the policy of differentiation between Israeli settlements and Israel in order to safeguard the two-State solution and ensure that Israeli settlements did not benefit from bilateral relations between the European Union and Israel. It was also intended to ensure that the application of this policy of differentiation would not in any way lead to a restriction of European investment in entities whose activities are carried out outside Israeli settlements and infrastructure linked to such settlements, economic sanctions or a boycott of Israel. I do not go back to the comments I made on this point in our discussions, but I would like to know more about the follow-up you are considering. Finally, following this UN resolution and the resolution voted here in the House, Minister, what position do you stand in the various European fora on this issue of differentiation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has welcomed Security Council resolution 2334, which has the merit of recalling a number of essential principles unanimously recognized by the international community: the colonization of occupied territories is illegal under international law and constitutes a major obstacle to peace and the realization of the two-State solution. This position, which is also reflected in many conclusions on the Middle East peace process of the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council, has not changed, and Belgium, like the European Union, does not miss an opportunity to remind the Israeli authorities of this message. I myself made our position very clear during my last mission on site in May 2016. The Paris conference, which we had the opportunity to mention earlier, which took place on Sunday, 15 January, also welcomed, in its final communiqué, this Security Council resolution and stressed the importance for the parties to reiterate their commitment to the two-State solution by taking urgent steps to reverse the current negative trend on the ground, including an end to settlement activities. In recent years, the European Union has already adopted a series of measures aimed at distinguishing between Israel and settlements: an indication of the origin of settlement products, a territorial clause, EU guidelines on the eligibility of Israeli entities established in the occupied territories, and a common message aimed at raising awareness among businesses and citizens of the European Union about participation in economic and financial activities in Israeli settlements. Other elements could be added. As for the attitude we will adopt in the future, you know that Belgium favours the adoption of a common position of the European Union in all circumstances, which has more impact. This subject is regularly debated in European fora, as at this Monday's Foreign Affairs Council, following this Sunday's Paris conference. Sanctions are not on the agenda. Peace also requires dialogue between the parties, which is why the European Union and its Member States have not chosen to embark on sanctions, which could prove counterproductive. This position is also in line with resolution 1973 adopted by the House on 24 November 2016 since it calls on the government in its article 4: "To ensure that the application of this policy of differentiation does not in any way lead to a restriction of European investment in entities whose activities are carried out outside Israeli settlements and infrastructure linked to these settlements, economic sanctions or a boycott against Israel." On the other hand, it is essential to work to restore a climate of trust between the parties, which is a prerequisite for a future resumption of the peace process. It was the heart of the French initiative that led to the Paris conference. It is also in this spirit that I held an economic conference in Brussels last month, bringing together Israeli, Palestinian and Belgian entrepreneurs, to discuss ways of contributing together to the development of the West Bank and Gaza. Belgium will continue to support initiatives in this direction, whether at national, European or international level. I repeat, next month we will come back to this issue of the peace process in the Middle East, the Middle East, at the next Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union, with the intention of seeing how to try to bring the parties back to the negotiating table. It is the meaning of the conclusions of the Paris Conference that envisages a new meeting this year. That is also the meaning of the contacts we will have with the new US administration. I said that earlier in the debate on the Paris conference. It is obvious that without the support of the new US administration, it will be very difficult to imagine direct contacts between the two sides. We will therefore also work in this direction. Meetings with the new administration are already scheduled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u35	Minister, I take note of your well-known position on Israel. You say "no sanctions, it is not on the agenda, it is counterproductive" and you refer to this 1973 resolution. That is why we did not support him at that time. When you say that the sanctions are counterproductive, I, above all, see that it is the attentism and passivity of Belgium and the European Union that are counterproductive. Today we are really seeing an arrogance and growing extremism on the part of Israel. In relation to the Paris initiative alone, we hear the statements of Netanyahu who had already criticized in advance the conference, and even the extreme right-wing defense minister, Lieberman, who refers to the Dreyfus Affair, in a reversal of the roles nevertheless quite surprising. I think that this policy, which you call prudent, has shown that it is a dead end and that it does not really lead to results. In addition to this arrogance of the Israeli government, I have the impression that the election of President Trump will further enhance this Israeli position. Unfortunately, I fear that a solution will not be found for this Palestinian people who have been victims of the oppression and discrimination of Israel for so many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u36	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, thank you for the elements of your response. That was a bit of the meaning of the debate that we had at the time of the resolution's discussion here in the House. The question has arisen as to how far we are going to accept that acts in contradiction with international law continue to be perpetrated without any sanction being taken against a State that continues to expand its colonies and practices measures that are completely contrary to international law. In this context, during the discussion of the resolution, we spoke on the question of sanctions, because we cannot continue as if nothing were happening and when sanctions would allow the actor concerned to be placed at the foot of the wall. Maybe that could make him react. I hear that Belgium is not moving in this direction and continues to favour a more diplomatic approach, which I certainly understand, even if I do not share it. I believe that this approach has demonstrated its limitations and has not made much progress so far. I persist in saying that we need to go further. When we see the agreements that are sometimes discussed here, where we insist that the precise borders of the State of Israel be mentioned in its agreements with the European Union, I find these important elements in order to move forward if we want to go further in this policy of differentiation, which we still cannot achieve on your part or at the level of the European Union. I hope you will insist at European level that we can move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u37	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Prime Minister had said that it was necessary to await the opinion of the European Court of Justice on the agreement with Singapore before Belgium brought the matter before the same court concerning arbitration mechanisms in CETA. This dubious interpretation may be astonished because what had been done for Singapore concerned another issue, that of the mix of treaties. However, it would have been worrying that the agreement had not been recognised as mixed. Supporters of CETA would have had an argument not to refer the matter to the Court of Justice. However, this opinion is now widely known. The Advocate General at the European Court of Justice stated in December that a free trade agreement between the European Union and Singapore could not, in his view, be concluded only by the Brussels Commission: it must be concluded in liaison with the Member States and ratified by the 28 Member States. It therefore wrongs the Commission, which turned to it in 2014, but argued that the Union could conclude this agreement alone. Even if the final opinion is only expected in April or May 2017, it is known that the opinion of the Advocate General is in principle followed when the Court gives its final opinion. There is therefore no reason to wait for Belgium to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice. Failure to introduce it would be a sign of bad will on the part of the government. So when do you intend to introduce the referral by Belgium concerning CETA arbitration mechanisms? On the basis of what elements did the government consider it necessary to await the ECJ's opinion on the Singapore agreement on a completely different issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like the Legal Service of the European Commission, my services are currently analysing the recent findings of the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice in the case with Singapore and their implications for the CETA case. Reference to this ongoing procedure was made to the Consultation Committee and not to the Federal Government during intra-Belgian discussions on the signing of the CETA. This is therefore a joint decision. As regards the continuation of the procedure, in mid-November my services began the necessary preparations for the submission of a request for an opinion by the Federal State on behalf of Belgium to the European Court of Justice. It is imperative to involve all concerned federated entities closely and in a timely manner. I therefore took the initiative to invite them to my office on 8 December. A second meeting is currently under preparation. We will therefore continue our work with the federated entities in order to have a text reflecting all their positions before taking a further step.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u39	Minister, thank you. I did not get a "key-to-door" answer, but I see that things are moving forward, which I look forward to in the hope that this process will succeed. I would remind you of the unanimous negative views of European civil society, the Irish Senate resolution, the vote in the Council of Europe's Social Affairs Committee calling for non-ratification of CETA, or the call by the United Nations representative not to adopt this treaty. There are therefore significant oppositions to the latter and every effort must be made to obtain as much guarantees as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u40	Madam President, Minister, Donald Trump's style leaves its mark internationally. One of the remarkable actions he took was to recall the foreign ambassadors on 20 January. Mrs Denise Bauer, American ambassador to Brussels, must also leave from 20 January. He applies this strictly, there is no buffer or space for transition. My questions are as follows. Were you contacted about the ambassador's departure? How do you see this? Can this lead to a certain diplomatic vacuum between the United States, Belgium and even the rest of Europe? Can this have an impact on some of the files that are running today? I am thinking in particular of TTIP. Are you concerned about certain issues and have you been in contact with the relevant authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u41	Madam President, Mr Luykx, my services have not so far been formally informed of the Ambassador's imminent departure. Based on informal contacts with the embassy, the story can be confirmed. I myself had a direct contact with Mrs Denise Bauer. I do not think this is the first time that such a decision has been taken by the United States. It's an internal decision. I am convinced that there will be no vacuum as the continuity of the embassies will be ensured by case-laws, as is customary in diplomacy. During my contact with Ambassador Bauer, I also had contact with her employee who will take charge of the representation in Belgium. The same process applies to NATO and the European Union. I don't see any files that could be compromised. As regards TTIP, the negotiations are conducted by the European Commission and the US Trade Representative services. Embassies are not directly involved in this. I did not hear anything during the election campaign in the United States, nor since the election of the new President, about a possible evolution of the negotiations. Many statements have been made about TTIP with Asian countries, but neither the European Commission nor I have heard anything about TTIP. We will examine with the new administration how the European Commission and the US Trade Representative can sit around the table again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u42	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I was in Washington as an observer for the election. Then it was also confirmed that once Trump would be appointed as president, a wider administration would conduct the policy and not a man alone. Mutatistively, like an embassy does not function on the basis of a single diplomat, but of a very sad people who stand behind him, the same correction can be predicted as regards Trump's policy. It may sound louder from a man's mouth, but in the end the policy will be run by more people, by an entire administration. We share that view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u43	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you again about the fight against nuclear weapons. At the end of October, in a United Nations General Assembly commission, the countries participating in the meeting had to express their views on the possible organization of a conference that could lead to the elaboration of a legally binding instrument to ban nuclear weapons, with a view to achieving their total elimination. Many States in Africa, Latin America, South-East Asia and the Pacific endorsed this proposal to hold a new conference in 2017. The European States were divided between those who had adopted a neutral position (Austria, Malta, Ireland and Switzerland) and those who had opposed the holding of the conference. It would appear that Belgium has expressed its opposition to the opening of multilateral negotiations for a nuclear-weapon-ban treaty. The rationale for this rejection was as follows: "We enter into negotiations on a treaty banning nuclear weapons can only come as a final constituent element to ensure a world free of nuclear weapons, at a time when we have reached the point of minimization where the number of weapons will be reduced to a very small number." The whole question is what this point of minimization means. Mr Minister, can you justify this position of the Belgian Government and tell me what Belgium's attitude will be at this conference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u44	Minister, I will delete the introduction; I have already given it twice. Since I didn't get an answer to my earlier question, I asked them again. In order to improve my statistics, I have now divided them into two questions. My first question contains four sub-questions. Firstly, you state that Belgium is in favour of a progressive approach. What do you consider progressive in merely repeating and recycling proposals that have been on the table for more than two decades but have never been implemented? Secondly, what concrete elements do you see to assume that the proposals contained in this so-called progressive approach can now be implemented in the short term? What specific initiatives do you see at European level, at NATO level, at international level? What concrete initiatives has Belgium taken or what initiatives does Belgium plan to take in the short term? Thirdly, the large-scale plans to modernise the nuclear arsenals of the nuclear States do not show that the latter are not genuinely interested in complete nuclear disarmament? If not, what concrete elements convince you of the sincerity of the nuclear weapons states to disarm them completely? Fourthly, do you believe that the lack of any reference to the progressive approach in the final declaration of the P5 meeting in Washington in September 2016 demonstrates that the nuclear weapons states are in no way interested in achieving the progressive agenda in the short term? Why, or why not, do you think? Finally, I would like to ask my second question which again contains four sub-questions. First of all, Belgium has always proposed to include a role as a bridge builder in the UN's open-ended working group on nuclear disarmament in 2016. In what specific ways has Belgium tried to fulfil this role? Secondly, Belgium stressed in the open-ended working group the central importance of transparency and of reducing the importance of nuclear weapons in security doctrines. Are you prepared to take action and communicate transparently about the presence of American nuclear weapons in Kleine Brogel and to plead within NATO for a reduced role of nuclear weapons in the security doctrine? Thirdly, do you see the launching of multilateral negotiations on an international prohibition treaty as the concrete implementation of Article 6 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty? Why is that, or why not? Fourthly and finally, do you agree that an international nuclear ban treaty is not equivalent to negotiating a verifiable nuclear weapons convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has already voted twice against the opening of multilateral negotiations in the United Nations to draft and have adopted by the United Nations Assembly an international treaty banning nuclear weapons. The vast majority of the Member States of the European Union have, moreover, voted against this resolution, as have all NATO Member States – with the exception of the Netherlands, which have abstained. We are more than ever in favour of a world without nuclear weapons, but we are seeking to achieve that goal in the most effective way possible. The proposed immediate ban is incompatible with our progressive and realistic approach to the problem. Since the nuclear arsenal constitutes the ultimate deterrent in the eyes of the States in its possession, nuclear disarmament cannot be decreed by means of a purely declaratory and formal prohibition. Nuclear-weapon States will not feel bound by such a treaty. Moreover, the latter will not be verifiable or binding, contrary to what its promoters say. You are referring to the 1968 non-proliferation treaty. Indeed, the holding of negotiations for an absolute and immediate ban on nuclear weapons, a little like what prevails for anti-personnel mines, for example, is likely to prove counterproductive, as it risks undermining the political will of States to implement the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which is a pillar of the architecture of international stability. In the case of the ban on anti-personnel mines, Belgium has rightly played a pioneering role, which I stress regularly. At the time, however, our country was doing a really useful job, given that there was no binding instrument in this area. This is not the case here. Therefore, the recipe cannot be transposed to nuclear weapons. Such an inclusive dialogue, which should normally take place on this issue, is necessary if we are to make concrete progress in nuclear disarmament, particularly with a view to the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, the implementation of confidence-building and transparency measures and the reduction of nuclear arsenals. In addition, it is important to take into account the current global security environment, including nuclear proliferation. I refer you to the particularly worrying case of North Korea. Given our position on the implications of a ban treaty, it is not our intention at this stage to participate in the negotiations, except, of course, if there is a significant movement within the group of our partners – the Member States of the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance – towards participation. I must tell you that this probability is very low to date. I would like to stress that the Belgian position is not motivated by satisfaction with the current rhythm of nuclear disarmament. We want faster progress, but we are opting for the most efficient approach. As you can read in the public document, the term progressive approach is on a gradual path towards nuclear disarmament. The supporters of the progressive approach do not believe that a simple shortcut to a nuclear-free world actually exists. They do not believe that by wishing to remove nuclear weapons, they will be effectively removed. They do believe that nuclear disarmament will be achieved on the basis of a series of effective measures, for which hard efforts are needed by the entire international community. Belgium is doing its bit. Our country is part of a limited group of countries seeking solutions to the technical challenges associated with nuclear weapons decommissioning verification. The importance of this issue is also recognised by a new resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly in December. The progressive approach is an initiative of non-nuclear weapons states. More important than a formal endorsement by the nuclear weapons states is the actual implementation of the proposed measures. In this respect, we welcome the fact that the UN General Assembly has decided to carry out more substantive work, both with regard to a treaty for the cessation of the production of nuclear fuels and with regard to the verification of nuclear disarmament. As regards the UN working group, which is known as the open-ended working group, I would point out that Belgium has contributed to a wide range of proposals to advance nuclear disarmament in a realistic and pragmatic way. Belgium made five national declarations. Belgium, together with other countries, edited three working papers, which provide more details on the steps to be taken to promote nuclear disarmament and on the role of safety guarantees in this process. With regard to NATO, I would remind you that the alliance has made considerable efforts in favour of nuclear disarmament. The alliance supports the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. It has greatly reduced its number of nuclear weapons and has reduced the role of nuclear weapons in its military doctrine. Belgium will continue its efforts. Of course, progress will be promoted through a favourable safety environment. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen increased tensions, including as a result of Russian intervention in Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea. In addition, Moscow has stepped up its nuclear rhetoric. During recent exercises, Russia has re-established Iskander and missile systems in Kaliningrad that can launch nuclear weapons. Mr van der Maelen, in reply to your second question, I shall add the following elements. You know them. The alliance's nuclear policy is subject to a number of rules, including the rule concerning the non-disclosure of the location of the American tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. Those rules are not unknown to you, I believe. There is therefore no point in asking the same question over and over again. I'm waiting for your next question at another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u46	Minister, thank you for the various clarifications. We are probably all in agreement that nuclear disarmament must take place on a multilateral basis. It seems to me to be obvious. With regard to the role of NATO, as already discussed today, Donald Trump wants to redefine the role of NATO, and I believe that in the context of this reflection, NATO will have to continue the efforts you have just put forward aimed at reducing its nuclear arsenal and showing that nuclear deterrence is no longer a priority for NATO. In conclusion, I would like to quote two texts. The first was the resolution we voted on in 2015 on the conference in April and May 2015, which brought together the parties responsible for the review of the non-proliferation treaty. I recall that one of the government's demands was to put Belgium firmly in the fight for nuclear disarmament in a framework of obviously multilateral negotiations in which Belgium continues to participate actively in order – an amendment I had tabled – to "free its territory from any presence of nuclear weapons". The second text I wanted to quote, which I hope will be voted on quickly, is the excellent text that I have co-signed with my colleague-president on Belgium's assistance to the humanitarian initiative for an international ban on nuclear weapons for humanitarian reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u47	Minister, patience has run out in a very large number of countries. When the Non-Proliferation Treaty was signed, a double promise was actually made. On the one hand, those countries that did not have nuclear weapons entered into the commitment that they would never pursue it, on the other hand, the countries that did have nuclear weapons committed themselves to dismantling them and even completely banning them. For twenty or thirty years, an approach has been adopted which is mentioned in your texts. Do I need to remind you of Einstein's definition of stupidity? He says that it is stupid to see a problem, then to define an approach that does not have any effect, yet to remain convinced that this approach will be effective. I don't believe in that anymore. I regret that Belgium is not joining the group of countries that want to take a different approach, an approach that has worked on the problem of landmines and cluster bombs. Were all the land mines and cluster bombs banned with that? No, some countries still hold on to their use. With the nuclear arsenal, we must apply the same approach to all the countries of the world, with as much as possible, preferably 95% of the countries, to the nuclear weapons states. I regret that the government does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u48	Madam President, Minister, the European Commission must present its draft for the next five-year EU budgetary framework. The debate will most certainly be fuelled by the report on the future of European Union funding. This report is the result of three years of work of a cross-cutting group. One of the key ideas of this report is to transform all or part of the contributions of States into direct levies for the European Union. New sources of revenue include the Financial Transaction Tax (FTT), the Electricity Tax and CO2 levies. Mr Minister, what will be Belgium's position in the Council on the question of own resources, whereas the federal government is more than opposed to the question of the TTF, for example? What do you think about the use of some of the resources collected from financial transactions to finance the European Union's own resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u49	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, on Thursday 12 January Mr Monti outlined the conclusions of the High Level Group on own resources in the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Questions. Its report will only be presented to the Council at the meeting of Finance Ministers (ECOFIN) on 27 January. You will understand that as long as we are not aware of the entire report of the Monti Group and the leads it favours, it is premature to take a position on the evolution of the own resources system in the context of the next multiannual financial framework. It will be up to the Commission whether or not to take into account the conclusions of this report in its future proposals for the post-2020 multiannual financial framework expected by the end of this year. These proposals will form the basis of future financial negotiations. However, according to Mario Monti's presentation to the European Parliament, this report does not seem to highlight any particular option. Rather, he would argue for the combination of several traditional resources with new resources such as the financial transaction tax you are referring to. Before adopting its position, Belgium will judge the proposals of the Monti Group on the basis of their own merits and in the light of Belgian interests as a whole. We will also make sure that we take a consistent position and that we can find a positive response from our European partners, as this is a unanimously adopted dossier. I would point out that, in the previous debates, we had called for a reflection on own resources to be included. We will continue to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will not fail to ask you again when we have more details on this report. In my view, this debate should take place in an opinion committee responsible for European issues. This would be an opportunity to hold a hearing on this report so that we can learn about the various options taken. My group will probably write a letter to get a hearing and debate on this important report for the European Community's budgetary future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the France-Africa summit held in Bamako on 13 and 14 January. This summit takes place at a time when the situation is worrying in many African countries. This summit certainly provided an opportunity to take stock of the situation in some countries, such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo or Burundi. Minister, have you had any feedback from this summit? Did your French counterpart contact you to discuss the situation in one or the other African country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u52	Mr Crusnière, the Africa-France Summits are traditionally events in which partners outside France, including Europeans, are very little involved. This was again the case this time, and this is all the more so since it was the last summit of President Hollande, who certainly wanted to take advantage of it to take stock of his African policy and to highlight the main French successes in this policy. It is a follow-up summit to the one held by France in Paris in 2013. In these circumstances, it is therefore normal that neither Belgium nor other countries were involved in the preparation, let alone in the holding of the summit. Diplomatic representations were only invited to the opening ceremony on Saturday morning. At European level, I also note the participation of a European Commissioner. The summit agenda was structured around two key themes. First of all the challenges and threats to peace and then the economy and development, the emergence for inclusive and job-creating growth. This year, with regard to Mali, the fight against terrorism was highlighted and France was able to highlight the successes of the Serval and Barkhane operations in this area. While the main African gold policy issues have been addressed behind the scenes, they are reflected in the final communiqué in general terms. In his speech at the opening ceremony of the summit, Chadian President Déby, President-in-Office of the African Union, referred to the Congolese agreement as a source of inspiration. However, the DRC and Burundi issues were not discussed in plenary session. The focus of the meeting of Heads of State focused on the Gambia, in the presence of President-elect Adama Barrow. In general, you know that Belgium has always ensured that its action is carried out in close consultation with other actors in the international community who are involved in these matters. France is, of course, at the forefront of these partners and, whether on the Democratic Republic of the Congo or Burundi, for example, Belgium and France frequently discuss the accompanying measures that can be taken by the international community. I therefore have no doubt that the accents and concerns that Belgium wishes to see put forward on these two dossiers have indeed been reflected in France's informal contacts during this summit, even if the voice that is being expressed will also be African, with its own intonations and its particular accents. I have not yet had the opportunity to debrief this summit with my colleague Jean-Marc Ayrault, but my services will continue to work together with our French colleagues. As I recall, not only in the European Union but also in the United Nations Security Council, we have practically systematically worked together and received the support of the French authorities on a number of African issues. In other words, France-Africa has disappeared, but Africa-France still exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament 15834 by Mr Delannois has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u55	Mr President, Minister, China made a complaint to the WTO on 12 December because the WTO does not treat the country as a market economy and uses the old method of calculation to calculate dumping. However, China considers that, according to Section 15 of China's Protocol of Access to the WTO, the country should be recognised as a market economy after the deadline of 11 December 2016. However, the United States believes that this does not mean that countries should automatically grant market economy status to China. Europe has opened an anti-dumping dossier under the old system at the end of the day. In addition, the European Union is working on their method of calculation. Following the proposal by EU Commissioner Malmström, a proposal for the modernisation of EU trade defence instruments has been agreed. The proposed Regulation amends the current anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations in order to better respond to unfair commercial practices. In concrete terms, the agreement provides for greater transparency and predictability in the imposition of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, right of initiative, reduction of the investigation period and last but not least the partial abolition or deviation from the Lesser Duty rule. For example, Europe could apply much higher US-style import charges after a profit-based assessment and will also depend on an assessment of the Union interest. I have the following questions, Minister. What impact can China's complaint have on the United States and the European Union? Will the United States also change its method of calculation or continue to use the same hard line? Belgium's vote in the Council is much needed to approve that agreement. How do you see that vote going? How do you see the possible further handling in the European Parliament? The partial or partial abolition of the Lesser Duty Rule is a strong means of trade defence. After agreement, how do you see its use? Will the European Commission make regular use of this in the event of disturbances? If yes, how high, percentage, could the Commission increase the levies?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Capoen, on 12 December China requested consultations with the US and the EU on our respective anti-dumping methodology in the light of China's WTO accession protocol you mentioned 15 years ago. Like the 163 other WTO members, China enjoys the right to complain if it considers that an approach is not in line with WTO rules. Together with our EU partners, Belgium regrets the Chinese decision to initiate a dispute procedure. After a long wait, we have just received a new proposal from the European Commission to amend European legislation on the regime of anti-dumping duties in a transversal manner, including for China. At EU level, therefore, the Chinese analysis will be studied and we will talk to China. Consultation is the first step in the WTO dispute procedure. If no solution can be found within 60 days, the Member concerned may request a panel to rule on the European Union's anti-dumping methodology. In the meantime, Belgium is, in any case, continuing its work with the other EU Member States on the European Commission's new proposal. Indeed, if the EU Member States and the European Parliament agree on that proposal, it is likely that this will also have a significant impact on the ongoing dispute procedure. The proposal is currently being discussed by the 28 Member States at technical level. In this sense, it is too early to decide on a date for an agreement, which also needs the support of the European Parliament. However, at the most recent meeting of the European Trade Ministers on 11 November 2016, the proposal received broad support in principle. Belgium has given its support in principle to the proposal by Commissioner Malmström concerning the new anti-dumping methodology, provided that a number of conditions are met. The subject may be raised politically at the forthcoming meeting of the European Trade Ministers under the Maltese Presidency. As regards the position of the United States, I can tell you that the Obama administration had already announced at the end of November 2016 that the time is not yet ripe for the granting of market economy status to China. I do not expect that in the current circumstances, with President Trump taking office, the United States will change its vision in a short time. I also share your analysis that the recent agreement in the European Council on the modernisation of trade protection is an important agreement to strengthen our trade defence. In line with my plea to my EU colleagues on 11 November 2016, I therefore welcomed the compromise supported by Belgium and 22 other Member States. It was high time the file was unblocked. However, it is still up to the European Parliament to decide on this. It may propose amendments to the agreement which may have an impact on its implementation. For my part, therefore, I do not want to anticipate exactly how the Commission will use the agreement. We are trying to move forward and, if possible, reach an agreement between the Council and the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u57	Minister, we must remain sober and realistic at all times. If the whole world, with the US at the forefront, adopts stronger trade defences and takes a harder line towards China, it is difficult for Europe to lag behind. Our group is not in favour of hermetically closing our market, but we must keep an eye on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u58	Mr President, Minister, a few more days and President Trump is being inaugurated. The appointment of his advisers and ministers is beginning to take shape. The future relationship between the United States and China of President Xi Jinping promises to become particularly turbulent under the present circumstances. Future President Trump has said before that he does not want to abide by the one-China policy, which is a cornerstone of foreign policy vis-à-vis China. In addition, candidate foreign minister Rex Tillerson spoke severe language during his hearing. Tillerson compared the militarisation of the islands in the South China Sea with the annexation of Crimea by Russia. Tillerson fears for freedom of navigation for international trade in the South China Sea. He therefore calls for China to stop making islands and proposes to deny access to these islands through blockades. By the way, Donald Trump has assigned key functions to two China hawks, Robert Lighthizer and Peter Navarro, in his cabinet. Meanwhile South Korea and Japan are becoming more active in Asia. The two countries have made a pact to exchange information between their intelligence services. China feels threatened again and opposes these latest developments. The Chinese President has stated that he will not allow territorial sovereignty to be called into question. The ruling of the Arbitration Court on the South China Sea, under pressure from the Philippines, will not be discussed at the annual ASEAN Summit. China is, however, negotiating a new code of conduct with ASEAN. In the light of this, Minister, I have the following questions. How do you see American-Chinese relationships evolve? Probably it's just bluff poker, but maybe it's not and we're heading for a trade war. How do you assess Trump's statements on the one-China policy? Do you believe that Trump uses this as a token for trade concessions? How do you assess the latest actions of South Korea and Japan? Will this lead to further tensions and escalation in the South China Sea? To date, American warships have sailed through the South China Sea to preserve the principle of free passage. Do you expect more active military interference from the American fleet under the Tromp administration and blockades of the islands or should we see this as a bluff poker? Do you see a way out of the problem of the South China Sea? Can this be achieved through a multilateral framework and under UNCLOS rules, or rather through bilateral agreements between China and the other countries? Finally, what impact would a possible code or conduct have on the further negotiations on the South China Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u59	Mr President, Mrs Capoen, it is premature to predict how American-Chinese relations will evolve. The transition to the new administration is tough. There are still many uncertainties and it remains waiting for a clear and consistent American policy story with priorities. At this point in time, it is not possible to tell which and how tactical movements of Donald Trump are part of a broader strategy. Using the one-China policy as a token for concessions in other areas is unopposed. I expect the new administration to see this soon. The actions of South Korea and Japan can be understood as a response to the increased nuclear and ballistic threat by North Korea. Both countries are aware that significant diplomatic efforts are also needed to reduce tensions in the region. I expect the American fleet to continue its efforts to preserve the free passage in the South China and East China Seas without, however, seeking military confrontation with the People's Republic of China. The Philippines has the ambition to reach an agreement on the code of conduct in the South China Sea during the ASEAN Presidency. This code of conduct will not resolve the territorial dispute, but may lead to less tension in the region. We must wait for the first actions and statements by President Trump and his administration after next Friday. I've been in Australia, New Zealand and Fiji for the last few weeks, and there I notice the same reaction. They have heard many things during the election campaign, they have heard a number of commitments, but now they are also waiting for the first actions of the new administration. This is also the best solution for Belgium. I said this yesterday about Trump's statements on NATO, the EU and Germany. The best solution is a direct contact and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u60	Minister, I share your opinion. We've got our hands full with "for the time being" President-elect Trump. Everyone has to wait and see what he's really capable of as president. I suspect that the soup will be eaten less hot if it is served, but we must be careful. In fact, starting a trade war could have consequences for the cautious growth that is also back in Europe. We must hope and encourage the United States and China to come out through political dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u61	Minister, recently the OSCE issued a press release calling the alarm bell. Quite a few missions ended at the end of 2016, or will end at the end of this month. Extension does not seem to be in sight because a number of states use their right of veto by rejecting any consensus on the extension of these missions. Most observation missions are located in Central Asia, in the former Soviet republics, but also in eastern Ukraine. It is clear that the disappearance of these observation missions poses some risk and could jeopardise the relative tranquility of the region on the ground. The OSCE devotes this to diplomatic relations between the various Member States. I therefore have a number of questions for you, Minister. Have you received any messages from our permanent OSCE representation in Vienna? What is their opinion on this? Which states do they consider responsible for this stalemate? What is the position of our country within the OSCE on this issue? Has our country taken concrete initiatives to break the deadlock? How is our country committed to keeping the financing of the OSCE missions at a sufficiently high level? Is there any evolution in this area? Finally, what is your position on the role of the OSCE on the wider international stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u62	Mrs Bellens, our permanent representation at the OSCE in Vienna keeps Foreign Affairs constantly informed of developments regarding the extension of the mandates of the relevant field missions. These are the mandates of the field missions in Armenia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. The mandate of the Border Observation Mission at the border crossing points in Gukovo and Donetsk continues until 31 January 2017. As you know, the OSCE is an organisation where decisions are taken by consensus. This inevitably leads to complex decision-making procedures, taking into account different interests and positions. Also in this dossier there are several players and interests that have led to the current stalemate. Our country regards the OSCE's field missions as one of the great assets of the organisation. They're the ones who make the difference on the ground. We therefore attach great importance to the proper functioning of these missions. Together with the other EU Member States, our country is therefore trying to support the Presidency, Germany last year and since 1 January Austria, as much as possible in its efforts to reach a compromise with the countries concerned. In recent years, the OSCE's general budget has had zero growth. However, due to the expansion of the Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine, which has a separate budget, the total budget has grown considerably. There is therefore a difference between the general budget and the budget for a specific mission. The Belgian contribution has also been increasing over the past two years. In the budget negotiations, Belgium is always focusing on sufficient budget for the field missions and operational activities, with a focus on conflict areas and Central Asia. I regard the OSCE as an important pillar of our European security policy. It is also the only regional organisation in which we are still at the table with Russia on a weekly basis and enter into dialogue. Finally, I repeat that Belgium deeply regrets this state of affairs and fully supports the efforts of the new Austrian Presidency of the OSCE in order for the parties concerned to review their positions. Belgian support is indeed repeated at almost every weekly meeting of the Permanent Council. Action by Belgium is always possible, but I repeat that there are many other possibilities. Such an organisation must always reach a consensus. Mrs Bellens, you are playing an active and positive role in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, for which I would like to express my deepest thanks and appreciation. I would like to suggest that, on the occasion of the winter session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on 23 and 24 February 2017, the Belgian members of the OSCE are trying to use their influence with colleagues from the Central Asian and Caucasian countries concerned so that their governments would review their position, if not by then. As in other cases, it is very useful to conduct parliamentary diplomacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Since the end of the Cold War, the OSCE has been constantly trying to stay in talks with Russia, among others. However, there are some countries that have the impression that the OSCE has been overtaken, that it has had its best time. In an increasingly volatile international community, each forum should be used to express and exchange views. The OSCE is an excellent forum for this. Moreover, the expertise the OSCE has already built on in terms of capacity building and election observation cannot be underestimated. We are therefore pleased that your policy paper gave us your attention to the OSCE and, in particular, to the importance of the missions in Ukraine. We are convinced that it will be more effective if we work together with the members of the OSCE that there are more than in the European Union to build a safer Europe. We will take up our duties in February at the winter meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u64	Minister, sitting President Jammeh turned out to refuse to leave after the elections, although he initially seemed to admit his defeat and seemed to be able to change. Meanwhile, the media reports that Nigeria is apparently preparing a force to intervene in Gambia. It is reported that the country is still waiting for the consent of the various multilateral players: ECOWAS, the African Union and the UN. Gambia is enclosed in Senegal, one of the partner countries in our development cooperation. Possible instability in Gambia can affect Senegal and the wider region, where there are also a number of partner countries in our development cooperation. I have a few questions on this, Minister. What analysis does the competent diplomatic post make of the situation in Gambia and the possible impact on the wider region? How does our country and the EU intercede in the conflict between the outgoing President and the winner of the elections, Mr Barrow? What position does our country take on Nigeria's possible intervention? What if Nigeria intervenes without the mandate of the multilateral actors? Do you think that the possible diplomatic means for resolving this conflict are all exhausted? If not, what are the consequences of any intervention by ECOWAS or the AU on our society with those multilateral actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u65	Mrs Bellens, the situation in Gambia is unstable and changes from day to day. ECOWAS shall continue the mediation work. On Friday 13 January her mediator for the crisis in Gambia, Nigerian President Buhari and the President of Liberia, Mrs Johnson Sirleaf and former President Mahama travelled from Ghana to Banjul. President Jammeh received the delegation but once again rejected the mediation effort and any form of agreement. President Jammeh agreed to await the ruling of the Supreme Court on the outcome of the elections and announced the appointment of a mediator-general. The aim is to ensure the proper functioning of the public administration and to consult with all political actors in order to bring social peace and perhaps also to buy time. In addition, on 12 January, President Jammeh made a request to the Supreme Court to have President Barrow's oath prohibited. The date for the swearing-in is in principle 19 January. Moreover, the African Union Peace and Security Council has decided that the African Union will no longer recognise President Jammeh as the legitimate President of the Gambia from that date. The risk of destabilization in the region is still present, in the sense that rumours are circulating that President Jammeh is recruiting mercenaries in neighbouring countries. It can also be seen that a large number of Gambians in the border regions have left for Senegal or Guinea-Bissau. Both the European Union and Belgium have clearly called for respect for the results of the elections and for a peaceful transfer of power. Last weekend, in Bamako, the French-African summit took place and in the margins, Commissioner Mimica and the Director-Africa of the EDO, Birgit Marcussen, had a bilateral meeting with both parties involved in the Gambian crisis. My services have also received twice the ambassador from Gambia in Brussels. He too, like a dozen colleagues in office, has called on President Jammeh to renounce power. At the current stage of the crisis, there is no intervention by Nigeria alone. A diplomatic solution is generally preferred. A military action supported by ECOWAS was again discussed, in particular by Mohamed Im Chambaz, the United Nations Secretary-General's Special Representative for West Africa. On Friday 13 January 2017, he reiterated to the UN Security Council that ECOWAS is determined to use all means, including violence, if Jammeh refuses to transfer power and if necessary ECOWAS would request the support of the African Union Peace and Security Council for the deployment of troops in Gambia as well as formal approval by the UN Security Council. We support a number of initiatives aimed at checking whether it is possible to make a correct transfer. So far, I have to admit that we do not yet have any certainty about this. After all, there is still a refusal on the part of the current President, as I can still call him, to make a real transition. We will certainly follow the same path as all other European countries in cooperation with ECOWAS and the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic566x.u66	Thank you, Minister. A peaceful solution does indeed seem to be the best solution for all parties. When I hear that all the means can be used, including violence, and that the incumbent president recruits mercenaries, that does not make me happy but rather worried, not only for the inhabitants of Gambia but for the whole region, which is not very stable. This could have a huge impact on Belgian international cooperation. Gambia is located close to other partner countries and this will have some consequences.
