ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. Minister, I welcome you to this first question-and-answer session of the fall. Questions Nos. 19873, 19874 and 19875 by Mr. Pivin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u2	Minister, the Federation of Belgian Enterprises (FEB) has indicated that you are currently working on a profound reform of the Company Code for "more simplification, clarification and flexibility". The idea, if my information is accurate, is to move from 17 forms of companies to four. It is surprising that, if I join you in the need for administrative simplification, clarification and flexibility, we must not lose sight of the fact that certain forms of society bring specificities, as is the case for agricultural society. Minister, can you confirm this change from 17 corporate forms to 4? Can you explain to me why you want only 4 forms of companies and not 5 or 6? What about the agricultural society? Will she persist in your reform? Is it not essential to keep the specifics of this society? Is it necessary to recall that it represents a whole sector indispensable to our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Cassart. Let me first tell you that for the time being, the draft bill is before the Council of State for advice. He'll be back soon. Simplification of company law implies, inter alia, a limitation on the number of forms of companies. It depends whether or not political parties are included, but let us say that in addition to the four European forms, the four national forms remain essential. We're eight then.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u4	Besides the four?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u5	European forms. The four national forms remain essential. The total is eight. The simple company, which can acquire legal personality, then becomes a general partnership or limited partnership, the limited liability company, the cooperative company and the public limited liability company are the four basic forms. You have already heard that simple society acquires legal personality. It will be either a general partnership or a limited partnership. So we're already six. Plus the four Europeans, that's ten. There is also the agricultural company whose legal form corresponds very strongly to that of a general partnership or a simple limited partnership. This type of company is removed. However, the general partnership, the simple limited partnership and even the limited liability company and the cooperative company as an agricultural or horticultural undertaking may, under the conditions laid down by the King, be recognized as agricultural companies. The concept will be maintained while the form will not. This will follow transitional phases for ten years, which means that any existing form of society can continue to exist and, in the event of a change being forgotten within ten years, there will be an automatic change by force of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u6	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the very comprehensiveness of his response. Some clarification was essential. I agree with the Minister on administrative simplification in view of the existence of four forms of European and national companies. It is interesting that one of them, the agricultural society, can contain the different characteristics that will be determined by ministerial decree. The transitional period of 10 years is also essential for phase. I welcome your answer because it was important to reduce these 17 types of companies and not to turn the specific agricultural sector into a trap. Farmers who come together in society must be able to benefit from certain advantages in the face of certain disadvantages. It is therefore important to maintain this type of company in view of its special character.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in a previous parliamentary question concerning the legal framework of the Labour Court of Liège and in particular its division in Namur, I asked you why only one vacant place of magistrate was published when in reality two places were freed. You then told me that your administration was basing its proposals for the publication of vacant places on a staff strength of 90 per cent compared to the legal frameworks and staff credits available. You indicated that, depending on future guidance for the initial 2017 budget, further follow-up would take place with respect to the use of the available operational margin. You also added that the possible publication of a second vacant seat would be subject to a further assessment of the occupancy rate in all courts and tribunals, in consultation with the College of Courts and Courts. In this regard, I would like to take stock with you. Minister, the consultation between your administration and the College of Courts and Courts to assess the occupancy rate of the Labour Court of Liège took place at the end of 2016 and the second vacant place was finally published in the Belgian Moniteur on 13 February 2017. Since then, however, it appears that two judges of the court will be appointed in June 2017 in other jurisdictions (one was active in Liège, the other in Dinant). However, in the last draft publication scheduled for June 2017, it appears that only one place would be published, not two. As you will have understood, the initial problem of assigning to the labour court a number of judges less than 90% (88.88 per cent to be exact) is about to happen again. Mr Minister, why will the Labour Court in Liège, according to the latest monitoring, be allocated "magistrate" human resources below the minimum threshold decided by the national level? Why such a difference, especially since the Labour Court of Liège was expected to provide around 22% of the national workload in 2017 with 17% of the judges? What about the new consultation between your administration and the College of Courts and Courts for the occupancy rate of the various courts in the country? In view of the initial 2017 budget, can you tell me in general how the use of the available operating margin will be reviewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, as part of the monitoring of the actual number of judges in each jurisdiction, it is appropriate to seek a proper distribution of the vacant places in the various courts. The 90% principle to which you refer concerns a budgetary average for all jurisdictions. If this principle is transposed to the concrete situation of the Labour Court in Liège, this amounts to the allocation of 24 out of 27 i.e. 90 %. The Labour Court in Liège currently has 23 appointed judges, taking into account the fact that two persons have recently left the court because they have been appointed elsewhere. There's a vacancy. It was published on 17 July 2017. When it is provided, the number of judges working in the Labour Court of Liège will be reduced to 24 out of 27, i.e. 90%. The current model takes into account legal frameworks and is not based on an allocation based on estimated workload. My administration is therefore invited to draw up, in collaboration with the support service of the College of Courts and Courts, a breakdown of vacancies according to the workload.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u10	Minister, the Netherlands has been pursuing a different policy in its crime management for a few years. Their prisons are depopulating to the point that our neighbours are renting them to other countries, including ours and Tilburg. All over Europe, crime is on the rise, leading to prison saturation. On the other hand, the Dutch trend is declining. "Judges condemn differently, not slightly, but quite differently, with labor sentences, electronic bracelets and "specialized" clinics," says Anneloes van Boxtel, director of the real estate project at the Ministry of the Interior. As a result, crimes and offences fell by 26% from 2007 to 2015, according to the Central Statistical Office (CBS). In ten years, the number of people sent to prison each year has fallen by 25 per cent, from 50,650 in 2005 to 37,790 in 2015. And the incarceration rate was 57 inmates per 100,000 population, compared to 458 in the United States. Minister, a few months ago you had to deal with a very serious crisis in the various prisons in the Kingdom. I imagine that such figures in our Dutch neighbours must make you dream of the Minister of Justice. Of course, no model can be transposed from one country to another. However, Minister, according to your information, what are the methods that work and have proved their worth, especially by being reproducible, in the Dutch judicial system? Is this system more expensive than ours? What Dutch experiences could be tried in Belgium in order to reduce the rate of prison overcrowding? One of the Dutch prisons will soon be reassigned to university buildings. This is reminiscent of Victor Hugo's sentence: "Open schools, you will close prisons!" When could we get there in Belgium, especially since schools and prisons do not depend on the same level of power?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u11	Mr.Flahaux, first of all, let me tell you that this morning, the meter was 10 146 prisoners, which brings us closer to the target number. Of course, it is not up to me to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the Netherlands in the context of their repressive and prison policies. I can, however, refer to the fact that various possible explanations regarding the declining prison population and prison overcapacity in the Netherlands could already be provided in 2009, in particular by the investigators of the Netherlands Centre for Scientific Research and Documentation (WODC). On the one hand, they indicated a decrease in serious crime as well as a decrease in the number of drug smugglers at Schiphol airport at the time. On the other hand, they cautioned by drawing attention to the lack of direct links between cell occupancy and the evolution of crime figures. There are other causes, such as the increase in the number of acquittals and the fact that, at the time, the Netherlands was much more likely to impose labour sentences, serving as alternatives to prison sentences. The investigators are in favour. In addition to court decisions, the considerable influence of new factors was also mentioned, such as the prosecution policy for offences of violence and consumption of opium, as well as the propensity to file a complaint. Finally, the importance of prevention and follow-up, in particular to stem recidivism, was also mentioned. In addition, the Netherlands has invested heavily in the construction of new prisons, resulting in prison overcapacity, at least temporarily. We can learn from all these elements but, at the same time, we cannot transpose these situations as they were to Belgium in 2017. I refer you to the broad guidelines of my Justice Plan with regard to our criminal policy. I fully rely on alternatives, both criminal and administrative, to replace prison sentences. The new Penal Code is intended to replace the main sentence of imprisonment of less than one year, whose negative effects on the author's reintegration have been widely demonstrated, with alternative forms of punishment, such as labour, fine, confiscation and autonomous probation. I also intend to maintain and extend home detention under electronic supervision, in the context of pre-trial detention, as a sentence of deprivation of liberty or as a method of execution of the sentence. Finally, I would also like to put in place better conditions of detention and further reduce prison overcrowding, taking numerous measures relating to both the detention regime, the legislation on the enforcement of sentences and the available capacity. The placement of interned persons in legal psychiatric centres and the construction of new prisons were important advances, but the improvement of the treatment of prisoners in prisons was also essential in order to prepare for social reintegration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u12	Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for your answer. I would also like to say this more broadly: I feel that with you we have a real minister of justice who is effective. Obviously, mutatis mutandis, one situation is not the other and I would not like to compare ourselves to the Bataves. It's not pejorative. I didn't tell the bastards. You have provided some extremely interesting elements. Sometimes the criminalization of certain facts or, on the contrary, its absence can have a huge impact. I returned yesterday from Iran, where half of the death sentences – a type of conviction we no longer have in our country, fortunately – were handed down for drug offences. A change is under way and this can change the statistics in Iran. Without wishing to compare us to Iran, I mean that the more global conception of society in relation to a particular fact of society can also have an impact on the question I have just asked you. I thank you, in any case, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u13	Mr President, Minister of Justice, I would also like to check the efficiency of your work. My question was originally a written question, which was not answered in good time, which obliges me to put it orally. Belgium has concluded treaties with several countries on the transfer and extradition of prisoners. Most countries are covered by the 1983 Strasbourg Convention. Such a treaty has also been signed with the United States. It lays down a number of conditions. It explicitly states that a shipment is not a right. Countries must therefore reach agreement on each individual case. From the answer to my previous written question No. 517 shows that an average of 60.6 applications per year came in between 2010 and 2014, while only 10.6 shipments took place. Only one request out of six therefore led to an effective shipment. There is, for example, a Belgian who has been in prison in the United States for a long time and is trying to obtain a transfer to Belgium. He also appeared in one of the reports Alloo in the Foreign Prison. He told his story in that reportage. He also claimed that, when a refusal follows, that refusal is not justified in any way. That is why I have a number of specific questions. How many petitions to transfer a Belgian prisoner to our country have been filed over the past five years? I liked to get an overview per country. How many of these petitions have effectively led to a transfer? How many were rejected? What are the main reasons why it does not reach an agreement of transfer? What action can the Belgian State take if the country which is to extradite refuses the request? In the event of a refusal, will the Belgian authorities contact the prisoner, for example to explain why it has not reached an agreement and what steps the person concerned can take? Should certain time limits be respected in the event of a refusal before a new request can be made? If so, what are these deadlines based on?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u14	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, on your first and second questions, I will make available the data requested through the committee secretariat. These are, on the one hand, shipments to Belgium with permission and, on the other hand, requests for shipments on which no authorisation has been given. It should be noted that requests for shipments launched in a given year do not always lead to an effective shipment in the same year. Let me give you that, so you can understand the figures. It is also the case that data subjects sometimes withdraw their request, so that there is no transfer for reasons other than a refusal of the country in which the data subject is held. With regard to the 1983 Convention, including the Additional Protocol, and the bilateral agreements, both countries, i.e. the sending country and the receiving State, must agree to the transfer. There is no obligation for the States concerned. The Belgian authorities cannot therefore oblige another State to transfer to our country the sentence and execution of a convicted person. It is a sovereign power of the other state. The Framework Decision, which applies to the 28 Member States of the European Union, does contain a more fundamental obligation. In particular, the grounds for refusal are listed exhaustively; they can be found in Articles 12 and 13 of the Law of 15 May 2012. I can tell you that Belgium gives a positive response to the other state, even a non-European one, when the person concerned has his family and social links here and therefore has a perspective of social reintegration. Rejections are therefore about a lack of a link with Belgium, such as no family in Belgium or never had a place of residence in Belgium. In the event of refusal by the other State, it is not for Belgium to interpret or justify this foreign decision. The Belgian government does this in its own decisions or advice on foreign prisoners in our prisons and on Belgian prisoners in foreign prisons. More generally, the Belgian government can provide certain support to Belgian detainees abroad through the FPS Foreign Affairs Office and in particular through the consular assistance. As far as your fourth question is concerned, as far as Belgium is concerned, there are no waiting periods that must be respected before a new request can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will take note of the figures. You distinguish between treaties with Europe and treaties with countries outside the European Union and you explained the grounds for refusal, which are clear within the European Union. I assume that there may be other grounds for refusal in treaties with other countries. What came to my attention was that when a Belgian is refused abroad, outside the European Union, it is not always clear what the reasons are. It is sometimes people who have family in Belgium, but one of the reasons that makes it plausible to agree to the transfer. I understand that when the refusal occurs in the other country, it is difficult for us to motivate it. I hope that the reasons will be given, because it may be interesting for the person concerned to anticipate this in the case of a new application, by providing more information and better motivating the application. I have the impression that this is not the case. Thank you for your answer, but I may have to come back to some of those aspects later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumery's 19965 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u17	Minister, my question follows on from an answer you gave me a few months ago about the reconstruction of Verviers prison. You then told me that, in consultation with the government, you wanted to eventually bring the number of remand houses to one per judicial district, in order to distinguish clearly between a prison and a prison. The question arose precisely for the prison mentioned above. According to the legislation in force, a detention facility should be set up in the judicial district of Eupen. In agreement with the actors on the ground, I had raised an objection before you, not with regard to the judicial district, but with regard to the district of Verviers. Minister, my question is relatively simple. Since the law provides for a detention facility per judicial district, do you envisage respecting it and building a detention facility in the district of Eupen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u18	Mrs Jadin, as I have said on several occasions, I would like to bring the number of arrest centres to one in each judicial district. At present, the Masterplan III, approved by the government, does not provide for the construction of a prison in the Eupen district. For the Region, this plan includes the replacement of the Lantin prison and the reconstruction of a prison in Verviers. I have asked my administration to provide me with the number of detainees whose domicile is located in the judicial district of Eupen: there are seven. Six of them are incarcerated in Lantin, one or the seventh in Marche-en-Famenne. Given this limited number, the question of a possible adaptation of the law arises, but I will not proceed here. Indeed, time must be given for reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u19	Minister, I will give you time for reflection. I'm even ready to think with you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u20	Minister, over the past few weeks and months we have been repeatedly confronted with problems of transferring prisoners between prison and court. The problems in Antwerp were often published in the press. Apparently even prisoners could escape on their way to the AI, which would be due to a structural understaffing of the security force. We learn that from the press, Minister. The President of the Court of First Instance raised the alarm regarding the transport of detainees. Several correctional sessions had to be postponed because the prisoners could not be brought to court in time from prison. I am aware that the government has decided to set up a General Security Service in which the integrated police and the security corps would be responsible for these tasks. Yesterday I read in the press that a similar question was asked to Minister Jambon. In response to a question from colleague Lambrecht, he replied that this service would not be operational until January 2019. I also know, Minister, that you want to use videoconferencing to make certain transport unnecessary. Mr. Secretary, will there be any further reinforcement of the security force as announced? Will additional staff be provided? Minister Jambon said that effective operational operation of the integrated service can only be expected in January 2019. Quid with the period in between? What measures will be taken to address the issue and ensure the guaranteed transfer to the court of detained persons? Can you also give an update on the pending videoconference proceedings before the Constitutional Court? Finally, is it such a serious problem? On the basis of figures, can you show how many procedures have actually been postponed due to difficulties in transferring persons from prison to court?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u21	Mr President, Minister, at the end of July, two detainees managed to escape when the prison was transferred to the jurisdiction of the Antwerp Court of Appeal for lack of sufficient staff from the security corps. The president of the Antwerp Court of Appeal referred to a structural shortage of staff within the justice security forces responsible for transferring detainees between the prison and the court. According to him, out of 36 people to compose this body, only four were present. The French-speaking president of the Court of First Instance has sounded an alarm at the situation in Brussels. According to him, detainees may no longer be able to attend hearings because of a lack of staff responsible for their transfer. In addition, it appears that there are difficulties in the correctional court, which may result in delays in the files. Minister, how many people is the security corps composed of? What about Antwerp? How many members of the security corps were present in Antwerp at the time of the incident? What is the situation of other jurisdictions in the country? What are the difficulties? Can you tell us how the framework of the security corps has evolved in recent years? What measures do you intend to take? Do you intend to strengthen the capacity of the security corps so that it can work effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u22	Minister, in June 2017, just before the holiday, I asked you a question about the same problem. I also believe that my fellow Members have already outlined the situation sufficiently. I can therefore proceed immediately to my questions. Can you explain when and where the security force will be strengthened? Do you know when the judgment of the Constitutional Court will intervene? I believe that the normal lead time is about eight months. In the meantime, we are already September and the new law on the videoconference should have entered into force in principle on 1 September. Everything is delayed by the fact that we are awaiting the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Can you give some insight into the number of escapes during the prison transfers to the courthouse, and back? How many sessions have been delayed due to problems with shipments? In the meantime, a number of new prisons, including in Beveren and Marche-en-Famenne, are in place. How many hearings could have taken place there in the meantime? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u23	Much has already been said and written about the incident in Antwerp. Nevertheless, at your request, I repeat the main points. How it was possible that the two prisoners could escape is an operational question about a service that does not fall within my jurisdiction. The prisoners were able to escape during a transport carried out by the local police of Antwerp. In the local police of Antwerp, the Courts and Transfers department (GEOV) exists and organises all transports. The security corps is available to carry out the duties. The transport of prisoners between the prison and the courthouse and within the courthouse is a task that falls under the responsibility of the police. Historically, that was an assignment of the government guard, which no longer exists. Since then, it's been a police assignment. In 2003, Justice created the Security Corps, a corps of security officers who unarmed assist the police in carrying out that task. That day it was decided to have the transport carried out by two local police inspectors. In Antwerp, cooperation between the local police and the security corps was traditionally very good. In recent months, I hope, there has been a break in the line of absenteeism, which has apparently been caused, among other things, by disciplinary investigations in connection with the so-called WhatsApp case and also by the increased use of local police for purposes in the fight against terrorism. We continue to call for good cooperation and understanding between the federal and local authorities. There has already been a constructive consultation with all those involved in Antwerp, first between myself, the mayor of Antwerp and the Minister of the Interior, then at the level of the court of first instance between the police, the magistrate, the security corps, the prisons and the first president of the court of appeal. This happened on Friday 15 September last. As far as Brussels is concerned, I am usually informed when there are problems. As far as possible, a rapid and adequate response will be given. If there are delays in the transport of prisoners, the Registrars and Presidents shall be informed so that they can make minor changes to their agenda as far as possible. This is usually done with understanding for all parties and with few significant problems. The security corps is not underhumanized. In the 442 headings, 422 posts are currently filled. With the upcoming recruitments with 17 additional posts, 422 plus 17, three changes for Antwerp can be foreseen from October onwards. Two more should be added at the beginning of 2018. That's plus five for Antwerp. Indeed, it is not obvious to find new personnel for the security force. I will start a new selection to supplement all existing reserves, which are exhausted, also because I can no longer find candidates in other departments with analogue competence profiles. In the context of the police key tasks debate, the government has decided to integrate the tasks of the Security Corps into the responsibilities of the new General Security Directorate (DAB). This service will be placed with the federal police and will take over the tasks of the police of courts and courts of the local police. The big advantage is that in the future this will be a unit of command and not a commando of the security force under the local police and a commando of the local police. The Council of Ministers approved the creation of this service at second reading in July. The preliminary draft currently before the Council of State will be discussed in Parliament this autumn. This afternoon it will even be explained in the Committee on the Interior. The operationalisation of the service will improve considerably in the course of next year. The intention is to transfer the full capacity of the security corps to the new Directorate of DAB by 1 January 2019, but the Minister of the Interior has promised that he will start operationally for Justice in the course of 2018. Negotiations are under way with the trade unions on this matter. A number of draft implementing decisions have already been negotiated and generally obtained an agreement from the trade unions. Negotiations are still needed regarding the transfer of personnel from the current security corps to the new management. It's scheduled for this fall. With regard to the use of videoconferencing for the appearance of the boardroom or chamber of indictment, no proceedings have been conducted in this way at this stage, as the legal basis is still uncertain, since proceedings have indeed been initiated before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has not yet ruled. Unfortunately, I cannot give you a precise date on which the judgment will be dropped. My services do not have information on the number of sessions to be postponed due to the fact that the prisoner could not be present. However, I can tell you that in 2017, no prisoner was able to escape during a transfer with the security force. In 2016 I know of two attempts in which the inmate could be immediately brought back in. In all prisons, so not only in the newest, the criminal execution court is in session. Unfortunately, for other things, the premises available are not used. And now a few numbers. The security corps consists of 422 officers. There are 31 of them in Antwerp-ville. On the day of the incident mentioned, it was the holidays and 6 security personnel were present. The breakdown by province is as follows: Limburg, 23; Antwerp, 65; West Flanders, 28; East Flanders, 20; Flemish Brabant, 14; Walloon Brabant, 12; Namur, 16; Liège, 33; Hainaut, 41; Luxembourg, 22; Brussels, 143; Training and IPR Cell, 5. The difficulties encountered are the lack of overall capacity in the security forces and police areas, which are no longer able to provide support to carry out missions given their own missions (terrorism, etc.).). I would like to point out that the security corps is supporting the police areas and that the transfer of detainees remains a local police mission, as I mentioned earlier. Personally, I do not believe that even if we had this new 600% surveillance directorate, it would be possible to do so without the assistance of local police from time to time. If you think about this situation, you're dreaming. Here is an overview of the evolution of the framework over the past six years. In 2016, 438 security personnel; in 2015, 426; in 2014, 431; in 2013, 423; in 2012, 412; in 2011, 427. You will see that during this legislature, the security corps was not at all undercapacity!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I believe that this government has taken the right initiative by looking for a structural approach. In the future, as you call it, there will be unity of command. A service, the General Security Directorate, will carry out the shipment. On the other hand, it remains the responsibility and core task of the police to allow people who have been arrested to appear before their natural courts. The law of 2003, which establishes the function of security officer, made it very clear that the powers of the local and federal police authorities were not reduced. You are right to emphasise that. Minister, I did not hear you say that you had detailed discussions with your colleague responsible for the Interior, although I assume you did.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u25	You didn't listen very carefully. I have consulted with the mayor of Antwerp and with the Minister of the Interior, together with the Chief Constable of Antwerp. Afterwards, my cabinet held consultations with the President of the Court of First Instance, with the first President of the Court of Appeal and with all services in Antwerp. We're in the middle of a permanent meeting. We are even operational in the Brussels Palace of Justice. I would like to repeat, colleagues, that my security corps is almost completely filled. More than a third of that security force is employed alone in Brussels, only in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u26	Thank you, Minister, but you did not say that. I should have assumed that. Maybe I didn't hear it right. You have said that and now you have stressed it again. It is indeed part of your mission, and that is what we expect of you, Mr President-in-Office, to draw everyone's attention to their responsibilities. Finally, Minister, you say that you have no idea the number of sessions that had to be postponed as a result of not being able to transfer persons who have been detained. I assume you know that informally, based on the consultations you seem to have with the various police officers. So you know whether it is a serious problem or an occasional one. Is it structural and should almost weekly sessions be postponed? If that were the case, I would like to insist that you are looking for structural solutions or at least a solution to the problem that has arisen today. When we read the press, it seems like there are sessions to be cancelled every once in a while. We know that the lead times should preferably be reduced, but if there are plenary sessions filled with issues that ultimately cannot continue due to problems in transferring people who should be there, then that seems to be something that cannot wait until January 2019. However, I can see from your body language that it actually happens only occasionally and that a solution is sought on the basis of the dossier, not to delay things too far. I draw that from your body language, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u27	Mr President, I expect the Minister's body language to change a little and to be a little more attentive. Minister, thank you for all the answers you have given today. The figures you put forward are almost the same as those I had at my disposal. To go back to the Antwerp incident, there were only 6 out of 31 people. In addition to the structural problem, perhaps there was an organizational concern. Perhaps they were not numerous enough that day to prevent a possible escape. Speaking of escape, Minister, I understand that it is a mission of the local police and that, for the moment, with all the other missions that have come in addition to terrorism, etc., it is a bit submerged. In addition, in the fall or 2019, a new organization, a service, a direction will emerge. You were talking about dreaming. I'm not dreaming, though our country is surreal. Pending the establishment of these services, escapes must be prevented from constituting a security problem. To get back to the hearings, I will not talk about the case of Antwerp because I know it less, but I can tell you that in Brussels it is systematic. Court hearings in correctional chambers are almost systematically postponed due to a lack of police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u29	Yes! Yes! Lawyers go back and forth between hearings to find out when this is going to happen. You say the judiciary is understanding. Do you think she has a choice? She takes the things that are there when the detainees are not locked up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u30	Have you listened to my figures, Mrs Özen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u31	Give them! I'm not the minister! I'm not a minister. You are asked to provide us with figures regarding the hearings that are being delivered. You don't give them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u32	You don't listen to them. You're not listening!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u33	You said you didn't have them. Then ask your administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u34	I said that one third of the security corps is employed in Brussels, Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u35	You didn't answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u36	One hundred and fifty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u37	In the meantime, the hearings are still postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u38	Is one third of the criminals in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u39	You don't have the numbers. For the sake of efficiency and for the proper conduct of hearings, the number of hearings postponed may also need to be requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u40	As you are so familiar with the functioning of the Brussels Court, perhaps you should make a personal request on this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the answers you have given. I agree with Mrs Van Cauter that it is of course a good thing that structural solutions are being sought. After all, delays and delays must be avoided. I also hope that there will soon be an intervention through a judgment of the Constitutional Court and that everything can be done to enable these videoconferences. We are now the only country in which this is not yet possible. Justice really needs to evolve into the 21st century. I am surprised that the new courtrooms in Beveren and Marche-en-Famenne prisons are apparently not being used. I don't understand. After all, at the moment those new halls are completely empty. Although it can be ensured that there should be fewer shipments, these rooms are simply not used. I hope that this will change in the future. After all, we will also have to go through this evolution. It is a comfort that there were no escapes during the shipments in 2017. That was still the case in 2016. I hope that the problems can be avoided in the future through the strengthening of the security corps and through the structural solution of the unit of command.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u42	Mr President, Minister, could you tell me what is the legal nature of an act certified in accordance with an original by a mayor sworn in by a municipality in Belgium? Is the certified copy worth the original act? If not, how much more credit can be given to this administrative authority in our country? I would add that I had first addressed my question to the Minister of the Interior, who informed me that it was up to you to answer it because in the context of naturalisation – the file has since been settled – we had a certificate certified by a mayor of a foreign diploma and the file was refused because the document was not considered valid. I would like to have your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in matters of civil status, Article 125 of the new communal law provides that the College of Mayors and Aldermen is responsible for the maintenance of civil status registers and that the mayor or alderman appointed for this purpose by the College shall perform the duties of the civil status officer. The conditions for issuing extracts and true copies of civil status documents are laid down in article 45 of the Civil Code. These provisions specify that the documents entered in the registers as well as the copies certified in accordance with those acts shall be authentic until false documents are entered. Acts of civil status and their true copies issued in accordance with article 45 shall have the probative force which relates to authentic acts. In addition, the new communal law confers on the municipal authorities the competence to certify copies of official documents. This option applies to documents intended to be used in Belgium or abroad, with the exception of those which must be legalised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. While civil status falls within my competence, this ability to certify copies of official documents is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, in the event that a mayor has an original in front of him and makes a copy of it that he certifies in accordance with the original, what is the relevance and power of this act? Is the mayor not an administrative authority legally constituted in Belgium which, as part of its oath, attests that a document conforms to the original? Mr President, I would like to apologize for extending the debate, but I do not understand that we do not take into account the value of an act of a sworn person, namely a mayor, in our country. I would point out here that this was not about me, but about the mayor of a municipality next to mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u45	Mr Piedboeuf, allow me to answer your question in writing. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u46	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Lambrecht's 20120, 20124, 20149 and 20156 have been postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Degroote's 20152 and 20153 will be translated into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumery's 20231 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u47	Mrs Lambrecht is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u48	Minister, you know as well as I do that a very large part of the prison population is in prison in the context of provisional detention. It's one of the pain points in our prisons. Given the overcrowding in our Belgian prisons, it was now possible to carry out pre-trial detention via electronic surveillance. That possibility has existed for some time now. I have a number of questions about this. How many inmates are in custody today via electronic surveillance? How did that figure evolve in recent years? How does that figure relate to the total number of other prisoners in remand? For which crimes is the pre-trial detention applied via electronic surveillance? How do you evaluate that system? Is it okay? Is there a need to be re-directed? Will there be a reassignment? How many prisoners are currently serving their sentence through electronic surveillance? How many of them do so, respectively, in the context of the execution of the sentence, provisional detention or electronic supervision as an autonomous sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u49	The provisional detention in the form of home detention under electronic supervision, Mr President, Mrs De Wit, was introduced into the previous legislature by law of 27 December 2012 and entered into force on 1 January 2014. The number of prefixes in the form of electronic surveillance has steadily increased. On 19 September, 223 persons were remanded under electronic surveillance. The number of persons subject to electronic supervision in connection with the execution of the sentence was 1 583 on 19 September. The figures for carrying out electronic surveillance as an autonomous penalty shall be the responsibility of the Communities. It is the judiciary, the investigating judge, the board of directors, or the KI, which independently judges whether the detention under the modality of electronic supervision is an appropriate measure. You will no doubt know that detention is not a punishment or a pre-trial penalty. When awarding electronic surveillance, the judge shall, as in the case of a pre-trial detention in classical detention, assess the strict conditions laid down in Article 16 of the Law on provisional detention, i.e. the danger to public security and the risk of recidivism, collusion or withdrawal. The nature and seriousness of the crime can play a role, but also the personality of the suspect and the circumstances in which the crime took place. It is therefore a tailor-made individual judge's assessment. To exclude all crimes, as you propose, does not fit in with that legal logic and opportunistic assessment. A theft with forced entry and falsehood in writing, for example, are also crimes. Therefore, I do not support your proposal to rule out application in absolute terms for categories of crime. I should also like to point out that the judge can always impose on suspects or suspects a freedom under conditions, so that there is not even electronic supervision. Article 33 of the Act provides for this. I have recently had consultations with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Research Courts Association which show that there is no question of abolition or limitation. At my request, the Institute for Judicial Training is planning an exchange of professional experience between the various actors, namely the Public Prosecutor, the judiciary and the justice houses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u50	Mr Minister, you have essentially answered Mrs Lambrecht's questions, to which my question has been added, because I have not heard an answer to many of my questions. That's okay. I might be able to pull that information again. I got one grade from the guy I asked for. I also know that oral questions do not serve to get figures, but I think you have essentially answered Mrs Lambrecht's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u51	You may take your questions again, Mrs. De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u52	No, that won't be necessary. If it's allowed, I'll be able to pick up the transcript in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u53	Either I have not listened carefully to the questions, or you have not listened carefully to my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u54	Yes, I've been listening, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u55	Then I will not prove that I have answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u56	I will look into it, Mr President. It's okay, there's gonna be Wednesdays.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u57	Mr President, Minister, European Union law as well as international law of the Convention on Human Rights are progressing towards the affirmation of a duty of due diligence, namely to take measures to assess the impact on human rights, the environment and health in all business value chains. Directive 2014/95 requires companies with more than 500 employees to provide information on the impact of their activities on human rights, social and environmental aspects. International law goes further as it calls for companies to take measures to mitigate these impacts and address the negative impacts that could not be controlled. This is the duty of due diligence. Directive 2014/95 takes part in this exercise, but the positions of the States are requested in relation to developments in European and national law. If I ask you this question, it is because the case of fipronil is an illustration of the unanticipated use of a substance produced by a company. If we could benefit from due diligence provisions, businesses would be required to ensure that the products they sell are used only in accordance with intended uses. Companies could only sell these substances in accordance with these commitments and the tracability in the chain of use and marketing of the products. The national action plan on business and human rights presented by Belgium on 23 June does not allow us to embark on this process. Indeed, it only provides for the commitment of the State to contact the officials - for the two codes of governance - of Belgian companies in order to examine the possibility of integrating international developments, particularly with regard to human rights. This will mean trying to minimise the administrative burden on public authorities or businesses, without hindering the application and implementation of ambitious criteria and controls. This commitment is insufficient in relation to the development of international law relating to this duty of due diligence. You will review the Company Code and I would like to know if you will incorporate this concept and, if not, after the case of fipronil, whether it would not be appropriate to consider measures to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, Directive 2014/95 was transposed by a law of 18 December 2015 into the Company Code. The purpose of the latter is to regulate the arrangements for the formation and internal operation of the companies. The Belgian law in force is perfectly capable of responding to conduct which would be criminalized by compulsory international standards. If binding European or international standards are imposed on companies governed by Belgian law, it is up to their managers to ensure that these standards are complied with, failing which the company will be held liable and will be able to turn against its manager if it appears that a fault can be attributed to it. Moreover, to the extent that compliance with the above-mentioned standards results in obligations of an accounting nature and enshrined in the Company Code, the personal liability of the managers may then be invoked by third parties. As far as the surplus is concerned, this is a matter for my colleague from the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u59	(...) that the Company Code must contain the provisions relating to the fulfilment of these obligations, provided that they are defined in European and international law. There are constraints and constant developments, which require the support of the States in the face of European bodies. In this respect, your answer is to say that "if one day it becomes mandatory, it will be put"; but you do not seem to say that it is important or that you intend to fight for it to appear in Belgian obligations or that you intend to fight at European level for it to be included in the development of the directive. Do you intend to fight for that? I understand that revisions to these documents and obligations are currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u60	Mrs Gerkens, due diligence is a general duty in company law. We do not necessarily have to use all the European provisions in order to comply with a directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u61	But we don't have that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u62	General duty of care?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u63	We do not have a duty of due diligence in this case in terms of the impact of an economic activity on health and the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u64	Yes, but be convinced that if the amended directive requires changes to company law, I will ensure that this is done as quickly as possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I have also addressed this question to your colleague, the Minister of the Interior. The terrorist attacks that have affected Europe and Belgium in recent months and years have highlighted the essential role and work of our intelligence and threat analysis services (State Security and OCAM). Some of these services have been strengthened in terms of human and financial resources. It's a great thing. However, given the nature of the attacks claimed by Islamic terrorist groups, it is essential that our services be better trained on the dynamics specific to them. Their great complexity makes it essential that intelligence officers and analysts have all the tools they need to assess the threat in order to prevent it as much as possible. In addition to strengthening teams, special attention should be paid to the quality of expert profiles. In view of the threat, a particular effort must be made to address the skills in Islamology and the mastery of the Arabic language. State Security and OCAM officers with such in-depth training in these two areas are key profiles for our services. Minister, in recent recruitments since the attacks in France and Belgium, how many new analysts have been hired by the various intelligence services within your competence? What are their profiles? How many Islamologists who are perfectly familiar with the Arabic language do your services count? Is it planned to hire more people in the future with this very specific profile? If so, how much, and within what time frame? Are recruitment procedures such as the Selor appropriate and fast enough for such very specific profiles?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u66	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dallemagne, the importance of providing sufficient resources for our security and intelligence services should be reiterated. These bodies must have the necessary resources to be able to carry out the ongoing fight against terrorism and extremism, as well as to counter interference and espionage from abroad. With regard to State Security, the first steps were taken during this legislature in order to upgrade the service to correspond to the intelligence services of comparable countries. In recent years, many employees with varying profiles for various functions have been hired. The Operations Directorate, composed of inspectors and commissioners, the Analysis Directorate, composed of analysts and assistant analysts, and the Management of State Security Supervision have been strengthened. With respect to your question about the recruitment of analysts into the State Security Service, I can inform you that eight new analysts entered service in 2016 and seven, until now, in 2017. All new collaborators respond to the description of the particular function of analyst within the State Security, as defined in the Federal Cartography of Functions. It describes precisely what profile, level of knowledge and skills the intelligence analyst needs to respond to. The full strength of the State Security is currently approximately 610 employees. For security reasons, it cannot be publicly communicated how this capacity is distributed, neither in missions nor in skills, such as knowledge of Arabic. Given the vector of the threat to be faced, and its geographically shifting nature, from the sub-Saharan region to the Irako-Afghan border, it is difficult for the State Security to recruit only linguists in classical Arabic or native speakers with specialized knowledge of each dialect or idiom relevant to the current threats. For the variations of Arabic or even the argots that the State Security may have to grasp, the State Security has a list of volunteers who are pre-screened, who agree to make their knowledge and skills available in translation and/or interpretation. In practice, it should be pointed out that classical Arabic is, to date, not widely used by individuals applying for jihad or terrorism. Finally, several years ago, and well before 2015, the State Security Agency organized for its operational staff, i.e. external services and analysts, basic or in-house courses in classical Arabic, using the paid services of recognized language centres. The collaboration between the State Security and the Selor is good. The Selor retains the urgency of the demands of the Sûreté. As the State Security has informed the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks, a number of measures still need to be taken to further adapt the selection procedures to the specific nature of the intelligence services. In order to prepare for this, contacts have been made within this framework between the relevant departments as a whole. An important step in this regard will be the reform of the Staff Regulations of the State Security Service, which is being prepared, including the integration of internal staff into the Staff Regulations of the external services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u67	Minister, thank you for these qualitative assessments. You tell us that a number of measures still need to be taken to upgrade us and to have fully-equipped intelligence services, in particular in terms of analysis. Could you provide us with some additional information on the answer you have just given us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u68	If you come back, I'll be forced to answer, Mr. Dallemagne, and I'll probably do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u69	I therefore take it that we are up to the level of foreign countries. From what I understand, this upgrade is on the right track. But it's hard for me to imagine it, since you don't give almost any encrypted data. You are talking about 610 collaborators as well as the engagement of eight analysts in 2016 and seven analysts so far this year. I will come back to ask you more specific questions about the further steps to be taken. It is extremely important that we have special expertise for this particular threat. Of course, this expertise should be as diverse as possible, depending on the different terrains that could pose a threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, as a result of technological developments and the democratisation of purchase prices, the use of drones has spread widely among the population and unfortunately not always with the best intentions. Thus, a new practice has emerged in Europe, with flights over prisons to carry out illegal deliveries to detainees. In the face of illegal air operations, the federal government has taken responsibility for supporting the installation of anti-helicopter nets in at-risk prisons. However, today, with the appearance of these devices, a new challenge is being posed. In this regard, the press has echoed a pilot project that is currently being carried out at Hasselt Prison, the results of which could lead to the activation of a number of measures. Minister, do you confirm the existence of this pilot project and provide us with an outline of it? What exactly is the nature of the tools deployed in the field? What is the agenda for this project, including the time frame for evaluating the results? Have you decided on a deadline for the possible adoption of a comprehensive framework for the fight against drones in the vicinity of prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u71	Mr President, Mr Calomne, I confirm that a pilot project is currently under way in one of the preaux of Hasselt prison. It is a detection system with visualization. Evaluation of this system will take place at the end of September. The action plan can then be developed. The usefulness, if not the need, of adapting the legal framework will be incorporated into this evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u73	Minister, as the number of drivers driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs continues to increase, the police have been waiting for the new saliva collector technique for some years. In a response to one of my colleagues, you only indicated that you were still waiting for the award of the contract before equipping the police with this system. However, it is my responsibility that the public procurement for the purchase of these saliva collectors has already been completed at the end of 2015. So, minister, what about the saliva collectors? Has the contract been awarded in the meantime? What is the timetable for its implementation? When will the police officers authorized to do this type of control be equipped in the best possible way with this new generation of saliva collectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u74	Mrs Jadin, the market situation for the supply of salivary collectors needs to be somewhat clarified. At the end of 2015, the Justice FPS launched a call for tenders for the supply of conditioned salivary collection kits, as provided for in the relevant regulations. Unfortunately, the market could not have been awarded, as none of the tenders submitted by the economic operators were physically regular. However, it is essential that collectors distributed to the police forces are, from a regulatory point of view, conditioned and ready for use, as prescribed in the Royal Decree of 27 November 2015. The procedure was therefore terminated and a new open tender procedure was launched on the basis of an opinion of our Finance Inspectorate. The tenders were opened on 7 September and have already been analysed in terms of the selection of formal regularity. The National Institute of Forensics and Criminology is currently conducting laboratory tests to determine the physical regularity of the proposed collectors. The objective is to award the contract by the end of the year at the latest. Once the award has been completed, laboratories wishing to obtain accreditation will have to submit a validation file on the basis of the selected collector. This accreditation process, which will take place in partnership with the Scientific Institute of Public Health, is estimated to be up to three months. Meanwhile, police schools will have the opportunity to use the contract to purchase collectors and begin practical training of officers. Full implementation is estimated for April 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I hope that you will not get upset as in my previous question. It is difficult for everyone to get back to school and there are of course some points on which we will not agree. You know how attached I am to the right to access to justice for all. It is therefore in the continuity of this fight and of the work that I have been conducting for months that I have been asking you about the reform of legal aid. About a year ago, you changed the second-line legal aid system by means of a reform that I strongly criticized at the time because it hindered the right of access to justice. It turns out that today, the voluntary sector, notably through the Justice for All platform, but also the president of the Order of Bars did not fail to criticize this reform. In addition, the new control over the conditions for access to legal aid leads to a complex and cumbersome procedure for lawyers who now have to look at the financial situation of the aid applicant, as well as for litigants. Having recourse to a pro deo lawyer turns out to be a real journey of the combatant for the justiciable: it is now up to him to prove that he does not have enough means of subsistence, thus having to establish proof of a negative fact in some cases. As you said, as well as the voluntary sectors, these approaches affect the relationship of trust with the lawyer and discourage the aid seeker. Once the admission procedure has been completed, the time limit for lodging an appeal may even be exceeded. In these circumstances, it can hardly be said that the reform has not impoverished the right to access to justice, on the contrary. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions. What is your assessment of your reform? Are you considering correcting the shot in order to restore effective access to justice? If so, how? Can you tell us how many legal aid cases have been introduced this year since the reform was introduced, compared to the last few years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u76	Ms Özen, since 1 September 2016, in consultation with the Bar Associations, the second-line legal aid system has been improved. This reform has been implemented with great professionalism by the Orders, their Bars and the Office of Legal Aid. Certainly, the reform has led to certain formalities, such as those you mention about the financial criteria. Several steps have been taken by the Orders to address many of the practical issues raised by the reform. Thus came a compendium - formerly called vade-mecum and memorandum - drawn up jointly by the OVB and Avocats.be. Similarly, the Bar Associations have created a model application form to speed up access to legal aid for those who are deemed to be under-resourced. Those who do not benefit from it must bring documents from the outset to show that they do not have sufficient means of subsistence to access justice through the traditional way. As a new essence, a reform always requires an adaptation phase and, as a result, results in a greater workload for the lawyer - especially in the first year. As soon as the system is well integrated, the workload is expected to decrease significantly. However, if viable legal aid is to be maintained, it is essential to provide it to those who truly need it. This necessarily requires a more in-depth verification of the applicants' livelihoods. Between 2015-16 and 2016-17, the number of designations decreased by 17% for Belgium as a whole. Within the OVB, this decrease is 12%, while it is 23% for Avocats.be. The number of designations has been declining steadily for several years. This trend is evident in this first year of reform. At this stage, it is premature to draw conclusions from these figures in the absence of detailed statistics. To date, OVB and Avocats.be have provided detailed data for 2015 and 2016. With the 2016-17 fiscal year closed this summer, the Bars are recording their latest figures, which will then be controlled by them in a cross-checked manner, before being validated and forwarded to the Justice FPS. In order to assess the new regime in place, they were asked to speed up this operation. Of course, we will evaluate the new system as soon as possible, as I promised during the parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answer. You say that the reform has improved the legal aid system. If I were you, I wouldn't be so sure. You also speak of professionalism in the implementation of this reform. I don't doubt it. On the other hand, if there is this presumption and if standard forms or vade-mecums are distributed in the Bars, the workload of lawyers is far too great. I will not repeat here the history of a profession that is becoming increasingly impoverished because of everything that is being asked of it (VAT, etc.).). On the other hand, there are far too many administrative formalities for the underprivileged population who must demand access to justice. I will not make the figures speak, but what is the reason for this 17% decrease? You often talk about responsibility by saying that we must avoid procedures at all goes, without real need. In my view, this is mainly a real and effective brake. In fact, the formalities are far too cumbersome for people who are already precarised to go to court. I will therefore follow this file closely and will not fail to return to you when the statistics are again provided by the Bars.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u78	Mr President, Minister, the report of the Gaming Commission, which has just been issued, contains a number of notable observations. Unfortunately, I see in reality at local level that some young people do not get to work because they play at night on their Playstation or start gambling, after which the parents complain. That is why I would like to ask you again two questions about Internet gambling. My first question concerns the report by the Gaming Commission, in which the trend you are also aware of, in particular a sharp increase in gambling over the Internet, is clearly shifting. We notice that casinos decide to cancel the rent of their buildings and only go on the internet to build the sports betting. We fear that the anonymity of the Internet will lead to an increase in gambling addictions. The Gaming Commission points out that because of this tendency it does not understand why its IT department is understaffed. The section has three members of staff, whereas according to the report and the president's foreword, there should be 14. My very specific questions are therefore the following. What tasks has the Gaming Commission not been able to do because of the lack of staff? What additional tasks could it carry out with optimum staffing? Is an increase in the number of staff programmed? Is there an assessment of the impact on the number of people with a gambling addiction, which cannot now be adequately monitored by the increase in internet activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u79	Mr President, Mr Geerts, in order to cope with a further expansion of the online gambling market, I have asked the Gaming Commission to work on three tracks, namely the closure of regulations, the control of player accounts as well as the application of the EPIS and the strengthening of control. A first package of legislative changes and nine royal decrees are as good as ready in the area of regulation. My policy cell has been engaged in intensive discussions with the six competent ministers for gaming since January 2017. In doing so, virtual betting is regulated as automatic gambling, the number of betting offices is reduced to 600 and the advertising of online gambling and betting is severely restricted. This latter draft includes a proposal of game moderators who have to limit their loss to protect the player in order to avoid financial family dramas. The regulatory package before us also contains solutions to the problems of control by placing the control where it is carried out, namely on the territory of the municipalities. That is why these are given much more power in the establishment of the betting offices and in the control of gambling machines in the cafés. The municipalities can intervene much faster and more directly and thus become more responsive. It is an illusion to keep thinking that control should be organised centrally from Brussels. It is important to know the online players in order to be able to apply the exclusion clause and detect risk behaviour in a timely manner. That is why I have been asking since I joined the Gaming Commission to make the link to the National Register waterproof and to realize real-time control of player accounts. The necessary budgets have been made available for this purpose and a solution has been promised to me by the end of this year. As far as staff is concerned, there is a commitment to control and to the ICT department. Since the end of last year, I have been looking for two inspectors at the police inspection to strengthen the control cell of the Game Commission. The call has not so far produced any candidates. For several years, the Gaming Commission has claimed its autonomy with regard to ICT. I have to say with you that this has not been a solution. There is a lack of competence in the Gaming Commission to follow the online market. That is why I have asked the President since the submission of his staff plan to inform me of the seven core profiles for control and ICT, so that we can start recruitment. I haven't received a file so far. The lack of impact of the regulator will affect vulnerable players and in particular minors. For years, the Internet has been a new and attractive phenomenon for young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Its tone is in stark contrast to the foreword of the report of the Gaming Commission, where the chairman puts the ball in your camp and that of politics. You say that you expect a description of the core profiles needed and better regulation within the Gaming Commission itself. The people of the Gaming Commission will also read this answer. I hope that you or your staff will be able to sit around the table in the near future so that we can get out of this impasse. After all, young people tend to be the victims of poor regulatory work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u81	Minister, you have already answered this question. In virtual betting there is a bet on fictitious sports games and actually they are just games of chance. The ethical question arises as to whether such bets should not be discouraged or even prohibited. However, there is a risk that there will be a shift to illegal websites at that time. We have read in the newspaper that virtual bets are still offered in Ladbrokes offices, even if there is a partial ban. The competitors of Ladbrokes even demand a penalty payment from the Belgian authorities because they consider that the current ban is not sufficiently imposed. In your previous reply, you referred to nine royal decrees which are currently almost finished. Will these royal decrees contain measures so that action can be taken against these virtual bets? I have heard, however, that there seems to be a different trend on What recent legal initiatives have been taken to further limit virtual bets? What is the government's response to the demands of the other gambling offices on virtual betting?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u82	Mr Geerts, on 28 July the Council of Ministers approved the Royal Decree on games of chance on virtual sporting events in the fixed gaming facilities class IV. This KB was then immediately notified to the European Commission. The Commission shall take at least three months to examine this regulation. The main lines of this royal decree, aimed at protecting the players, are among others the following. Firstly, the qualification as "automatic gambling' and not as "betting', which sets a minimum age of 21 years and applies the average hourly loss of 12.5 euros per hour of automatic gambling. Secondly, the guarantees that a player should avoid deception so that he knows he's betting on a fictional game. Thirdly, volume limitation by limiting the exploitation of these games of chance to the betting offices, class IV, with a maximum of two monoplay terminals, so that only one person can play on them at the same time. Fourthly, the e-sports that are on the rise are all kinds of competitions that young people play among themselves via their mobile phones and that have nothing to do with sport........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Furthermore, the exploitation of these games of chance is severely restricted by reducing the maximum number of betting offices from 1 000 to 600 and giving the municipalities control over the establishment of a betting office on its territory. The epic player exclusion system would also apply to the betting offices. There are six ministers responsible for gambling policy and they have worked together on this new regulation. The Royal Decree, in its present form, is supported by the Council of Ministers. No authorisations for virtual batting have been granted pending a clear regulatory framework to resolve the legal uncertainty. In the meantime, one operator has subpoenaed the State to obtain a permit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will wait a few months to see how the committee reacts to the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u84	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Becq's 20301 and 20302 have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 20304 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has also been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u85	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, a new television show called "Married in the first glance" will soon be aired. The principle is the union of people who do not know each other but who are close on the basis of scientific considerations. Without commenting on the quality of the audiovisual project and the motivations of the participants, I wonder, on the legal conditions of this type of civil marriage. Indeed, the exchange of consent must be perfectly free and assumed. However, in the context of this television show, with its lot of direct or latent pressures and the absence of a period of reflection for the future spouses, the question of a grey zone arises, with mayors who will accept or refuse to celebrate a marriage of this type. The situation has also arisen in my commune, Ixelles. Minister, what is your current position and that of your services on this type of union following the above-mentioned program? Do you support the adoption of a framework that would make it possible to standardize the decision of local agents, in charge of the management of civil status, faced with this type of marriage celebration request? If so, could you provide us with an outline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u86	Mr President, Minister, I was confronted as a mayor with this request from the producer of this programme, who insisted, not understanding the position that I took as mayor with the civil registrar of my commune, to refuse the celebration of such marriages. I must admit that I have taken the precaution of questioning the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, which is known to be responsible for monitoring the performance of a number of civil status acts and compliance with the legal provisions relating to such acts. The answer of the first deputy prosecutor of the King of Theux of Meylandt is clear: "As I have already pointed out to your colleague in Molenbeek, I do believe that this kind of betting does not offer the minimum requirements in terms of informed consent and, therefore, a reasonable and reasonable plan for a sustainable common life. In short, I would resolutely refuse to participate in such a marriage. Socle as prominent as traditional of our life in society, engagement in marriage deserves better than a head-lash excited by the lights of the ramp, or even the lure of gain, since there would also be a reward to the key." On the basis of this opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, I felt that I should not accept the request of the producer of the show and, like the municipality of Molenbeek, we refused. On the other hand, I found that one of my colleagues, the mayor of Evere, felt that the debate was not legal but ethical. Of course, we can have a debate on this aspect: is this type of programme worthy of a television channel? I leave it to others to discuss it, but my concern is the legality of the act in the presence of the registrar and the exchange of consents. It cannot be said that everyone is going to go shopping with the most tolerant, complacent and satisfied registrar to be honoured by the show. On the contrary, some uniformity of case law must be ensured. If the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office makes more than reservations – for me, this is an opposition – it would be happy if the public prosecutors drafted a circular that would standardize the position that registrars must adopt in the face of this type of demand and major insistence on the part of the producer of the broadcast. I also told him that if he was strong in the legality he invoked, he should not hesitate to initiate legal proceedings, which he would not do because he could not replace those who would have to exchange consent or who would have to give an exchange of consent since they did not even know the spouse to be presented to them on the day of the wedding. In short, we are faced with a parody of exchange of consent and circumstances that have nothing to do with compliance with the requirements of the Civil Code, and I would like to prevent drifts. How far will we have to admit that other essential acts of personal life can only be carried out under the light of the ramp? Many programs as grotesque and bold but not respectful of human rights as the one presented to us today could be conceived in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u87	Mr President, Mr Calomne, Mr Maingain, the use of civil marriage as part of a scientific experiment carried out during a television programme gives, in my view, an erroneous picture of what is precisely the purpose of this institution, namely the expression of the will to create a sustainable community of life. I understood that the participants in this program were getting married first and that after a few weeks they decided whether or not to pursue their union. Marriage is not a research institution or a test phase. The program distorts reality and thus gives a truncated vision of reality. However, there is a need to be aware of the consequences of marriage. Unfortunately, they are not sufficiently highlighted. What if one of the parties dies directly after the marriage? What if one of the spouses is debt-ridden? What if one of the spouses already has children? What are the fiscal and social consequences? Marriage has many legal effects in many respects, precisely because those who marry are supposed to have already chosen to form a community of life and to form a family life together. It must be clear that marriage is an institution that affects public order and that no agreement can be reached that would limit the freedom to marry or to separate. This kind of deal is absolutely lame. Before celebrating the marriage, the registrar appreciates the respect of the qualities and conditions required by law to enter into the marriage. Among these conditions, he must, in accordance with articles 545/1 to 546ter of the Civil Code, ensure that there is an exchange of free and informed consent between the spouses. The registrar shall carry out the examination independently. It is up to the registrar to examine whether these conditions are met on a case-by-case basis, taking into account all the elements relevant to the control he exercises. This assessment is carried out under his responsibility. In accordance with article 167 of the Civil Code, the State party is entitled to refuse to celebrate marriage if these conditions are not met or if there has been an infringement of public order. Indeed, such practices may raise issues. For example, the question may arise as to whether the joint candidate has a correct vision of marriage as an institution with the objective of creating a sustainable community of life or whether it has not been put under pressure by the program. I understand that the registrar is facing a complicated mission. To what extent can it still be said, under the conditions mentioned, of the expression of its own free will? Registrants may appeal this refusal to the Family Court. In support of his conviction, however, the registrar may consult the King's prosecutor in advance, at least if there is a presumption that these conditions are not met. The King's prosecutor shall then give his opinion within two months, which he may extend for a maximum of three months. In the absence of a notice within the time limit, the registrar will immediately celebrate the marriage. Furthermore, if the marriage were to be celebrated, a husband who considered himself to be misled by the person could apply to the family court for annulment, in accordance with article 180 of the Civil Code. I recall that some registrars have already refused to participate in this program. On the other hand, others agreed. I don't know if the registrars who agreed to participate in the program sought the advice of the Public Prosecutor's Office in all cases. Finally, it seems to me appropriate to invite the College of Prosecutors General to adopt a general position on such requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think it is indeed wise for the College of Public Prosecutors to take up this matter so that, as far as possible, there is a uniform position among the various registrars and there is no shopping in relation to an important institution, to quote my colleague, Mr Maingain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u89	Minister, thank you for your very precise and legally rigorous response and for your commitment to consult with the College of Attorneys General. I believe that there is indeed a need to enforce public policy provisions in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u90	Minister, the reports published by various newspapers such as The Guardian, De Tijd, L'Echo, Le Vif or De Standaard have in recent days reported very serious suspicions of corruption by parliamentarians of the Council of Europe Assembly who have shown a very great lack of respect for Azerbaijan, whose democratic evolution they had to assess. Several Belgian companies but also two parliamentarians or ex-parliamentarys were mentioned in this file: the former MP VLD Stefaan Goris and the current MP from Brussels MR Alain Destexhe, both founding members of the ASBL European Academy for Elections Observation. The published articles are particularly well documented and the elements cited are particularly troubling and disturbing from a democratic point of view, compared to what might be termed Azerigate. With due regard for the separation of powers and the secrecy of any information or judicial investigation, I would like to know what action the Court has taken on this information. Minister, can you tell me whether, on the basis of the public information on this file, judicial information has been initiated? Otherwise, do you intend to use your right of positive injunction to do so? If so, what prosecutor's office has this information been entrusted to? If so, what can you tell us about the status of this information? Has a request for judicial cooperation been made by Belgium or another State in this case? What was the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u91	Mr Gilkinet, it is first and foremost up to the Attorney General or the King's Prosecutor to decide whether there is sufficient evidence to open an information or an investigation. It is, for me, largely premature to demand information from them on such a decision. There is a priori no reason to have doubts about the merits of the one that will be taken. I would remind you that proceedings against Members of Parliament cannot be instituted before the lifting of parliamentary inviolability, in accordance with Articles 59 and 120 of the Constitution. In addition, articles 28quinquies and 57 of the Code of Criminal Investigation prescribe the secrecy of the preliminary investigation. Finally, the newspaper article annexed to this parliamentary question refers to an ongoing judicial inquiry into a former minister, initiated by the federal prosecutor and not related to the issues raised in that parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u92	Minister, I confirm a layout error, but it has nothing to do with the file in question. I am not talking about indictments but about judicial information which, if necessary, does not require the lifting of parliamentary immunity, which remains an important principle. It seemed to me that the facts mentioned by the press and the documentation available to the citizens – notably the Moniteur's website with regard to the statutes of this ASBL – were sufficiently precise that to justify both a question and a reaction from the judicial chain. I will, like you, trust the Attorney General of the jurisdiction concerned in the hope, as on other occasions, that more is happening than you have agreed to tell me about this matter which concerns me from a democratic point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u93	We are asking this question together, Mr President. Will you ask your question before I do? Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u94	Mr Minister, this summer the press echoed an internal note from the gambling commission stating that "many missions are no longer fulfilled" by this committee. Thus, in 2016, 77 cafés with bingo were reportedly checked (out of 8,000), 29 playrooms (out of 176) and 32 betting agencies (out of 697). The figures in the 2015 annual report show a similar number of checks carried out: 92 cafés, 18 playrooms and 23 betting agencies. These figures illustrate the powerlessness of the gambling committee, whose action would be jeopardized by the lack of administrative resources, control, information technology and technical means. The gambling commission no longer seems able to effectively combat illegal gambling, whether it is physical or online. However, new sectors have recently been integrated into the competence of the gambling commission, namely games of chance and online bets. The means have apparently not been revised accordingly. That is why, Minister, I would like to address the following questions to you. Do you confirm the figures published in the press on the number of checks carried out by the gambling commission during 2016? How is the control policy of the gambling commission established? On what basis are controlled establishments selected? Do you think the means at the disposal of the gambling commission are suitable for the tasks entrusted to it? Are they sufficient to properly carry out these tasks and effectively combat illegal gambling? Is an increase in the expenditure ceiling of the gambling commission possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u95	Mr President, you do not want to quote the figures that we both mentioned in this article, my very well-documented faith, which appeared in The Last Hour of August 18th. This article states that there is a lack of resources for the gambling commission. It is quite incomprehensible to me, if not unacceptable, since this lack of means prevents or even encourages illegal or problematic practices, since the operator's risk of being subjected to control is extremely limited, since there are no more controllers. It is also problematic from a societal point of view, from the point of view of the fight against gambling dependence, which can have very serious financial consequences for families, as you know as well as I do. Can you indicate how many controls have been carried out over the last five years by the gambling commission? What is the breakdown of these controls by proposed product type? How many penalties have been imposed for operators who do not comply with the legal rules? Do you confirm the figures that have been published? Do you confirm that, for lack of sufficient staff, the licensing of staff in the gaming sector is done automatically, without control since 2014? In the absence of sufficient staff, what happens to applications for voluntary exclusion of gambling dependents? How many such applications have been submitted in the last five years? How many were still waiting for treatment by June 30? Is this acceptable to you? What is the current contribution of gambling operators to the financing of the Commission? Shouldn't it be increased? What measures are you planning to take to remedy this situation? Are staff commitments planned? How long? Have you obtained any agreement from your government colleagues in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u96	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the number of checks carried out over the last five years is known only since 2014. On an annual basis, the checks amount to 149, 187 and 210 respectively for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. Under the Royal Decree of 28 February 2014, 15 staff members of the secretariat were appointed as judicial police officers. Of these, two have retired, three are no longer able, for medical reasons, and taking into account night benefits, to carry out field checks. Another is currently on a career break. Contributions covering operating and staff costs shall be fixed by royal decree. In 2016, almost 9 million were received and commitment and liquidation appropriations amounted to €8 million. The gambling commission was able to commit only 4.5 million and liquidate only 5.2 million. The remaining balance was added to the Playground Fund. An increase in annual payments is therefore not necessary; however, a better and more complete use of available resources must be made. My Strategic Cell has prepared a series of regulatory measures that provide solutions to the problem of controls by also giving the local level the responsibility to carry them out. The municipalities are given more means of action to set up betting agencies and control the machines of chance in cafes. It is illusory to continue to believe that controls should be organised centrally from Brussels. As far as staffing is concerned, the controls of the ICT department are being used. Since the end of last year, two police inspectors have been sought to strengthen the CJH control cell. So far, no candidate has yet shown up as a result of this appeal. There is a lack of control skills within the CJH. That is why I have invited its President, since the filing of its personnel plan, to communicate to me the seven key profiles for control and the ICT in order to launch the recruitment procedure. At present, I have not yet received any specific dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u97	Minister, you confirm the worrying nature of the situation. You quote 15 officials, five of whom are unavailable. If I calculate correctly, it gives ten active officials. You cite uncommitted means, an inability to recruit and organize detachments from the police. But there must be control over the gambling sector. You say you have imagined a series of measures with your strategic cell and postponed to the communes – who will not see it with a good eye – part of the control mission. My concerns remain, therefore, complete in this regard. Given the important societal stake, I wonder, Mr President, to what extent a hearing of the representatives of the gambling committee should not be organised to see with them what needs to be put in place, beyond the financial means, to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u98	Minister, I will come back to you to take stock of the various efforts and steps taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u99	Minister, I have heard that judicial trainees would no longer have access to Jura, the online legal library. The measure would have been taken because of savings. In practice, trainees will seek other ways of access, which is obviously not the intention. I have the following questions. Is it true that the access to Jura has been taken from the judicial trainees? Why was this measure taken? Is it a temporary measure or a final one? How much does this saving measure yield? Do you agree that Jura is an essential tool for judicial trainees? If so, how do you think trainees are supposed to cope with this? How should they access legal sources during their internship?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u100	Mr Van Hecke, of course I have some contact with the premises. I have met the judicial trainees for a long time this morning and they have not told me of this problem. In any case, the current and future public contract for access to electronic legal documentation expressly provides for access for the judicial trainees. If there would be any individual problems with access, I can only advise the intern concerned to contact my administration. No question or complaint has come to my administration. However, as a result of your question, my administration contacted the suppliers concerned to see if there would be any problems and to make sure that access for the trainees is assured. Do not hesitate to come back to this point if we had failed somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u101	Minister, I am a little surprised at your answer. After all, I have just received the signal that access for judicial trainees was suddenly no longer possible, otherwise, of course, I would not ask the question. However, I'll just reconnect and check the case. Of course, someone may always have a technical problem, but from what I've heard, it wasn't. However, I will be more informed and, if necessary, I will come back to it in another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u102	Question No 20471 by Mrs Jadin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u103	Minister, the prison population in our Belgian prisons has many foreign prisoners who are not of Belgian nationality. There are also many illegal immigrants living in our prisons, although less so than before. Among those foreign prisoners, the largest group has Moroccan nationality. That is why the idea was recently launched to build a Belgian prison on Moroccan territory and to transfer the prisoners involved there. This would immediately give the Belgian prisons, which have overcrowded for years, some more oxygen. Minister, how many prisoners are we counting at the moment? How many of the prisoners do not have Belgian nationality and how many prisoners are staying illegally in our country? Which foreign nationalities are most represented among the prison population? How do you assess the idea of building a Belgian prison on Moroccan territory? To what extent is it possible to allow Belgian prisoners to serve a sentence in a prison outside Europe? What legal possibilities do we have in this respect? Has the Moroccan government been contacted yet to test that idea? If so, how does the Moroccan government feel about that? How many prisoners could be eligible to be accommodated in a Belgian prison on Moroccan territory? Will that plan be further developed in concrete terms in the Master Plan Prisons? Finally, are there any other countries where it might be interesting to place a Belgian prison on their territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u104	Mrs De Wit, I have heard that idea through the press, but I do not know under what conditions it was launched. Neither my services nor myself have had time to examine all the legal aspects, so you will allow me not to go into that further. Of course, I have not yet examined the financial aspects either. However, there are already two treaties with Morocco which allow the transfer of prisoners. Since my appointment as Minister of Justice, the necessary contacts have been made to revive those treaties. No transfer to Morocco has been carried out on a voluntary basis since 2004, even though 44 files have been launched. I continue to urge my Moroccan homologist to unblock those files. The number of involuntary transfers of detainees with Moroccan nationality shall be five in 2012, ten in 2013, none in 2014, none in 2015 and none in 2016. In 2017, three were transferred so far. There's 36 files open. You also had a specific question about the current figures. On 18 September there are 10 142 prisoners in our country. There are 981 detainees who are exclusively Moroccan nationals. They therefore have no Belgian nationality together with Moroccan nationality. In 2016, the daily average of Moroccan nationals excluding Moroccan nationals or nationals, let me say, was 1 031. I'd like to specify that. Of those 981 on yesterday's date, there are about 500 without a residence permit. Of those 500, 200 are in custody and 300 are convicted. So there are about 481 who have a residence permit or about half. Of these, 130 are in custody and 350 have been convicted. With regard to the question on the figures for other nationalities, I can refer to the reply recently given to a written question with number 54/1/001642 in the Bulletin number 126. I have no idea today of any idea of opening a Belgian prison in countries other than Morocco.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'll check your grades. Maybe the idea is interesting after all. It is a pity to note that voluntary transfers do not succeed, and that the number of involuntary transfers compared with the number of inmates is not that high. It's kind of interesting to take a look at that. Eventually, you're talking about transferring to the prisons there. My question is to investigate, but I assume you can still take the time to do so, whether it would be interesting to build a prison elsewhere? I hope that I will get an answer to that at a later date, if you have taken the time to see whether that is legally and financially possible. I think that is indeed an interesting slope, especially when one sees what the final figures are. It's a pretty high percentage. I will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u106	Question No 20476 by Mrs Jadin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u107	Mr Minister, I come back to your reply before the summer to a question about repeated strikes in prisons, which we have been faced with repeatedly over the past few decades. For the non-believers or those who doubt the usefulness of a guaranteed service, the conflict in spring 2016, which lasted for a very long time and was very intense, opened its eyes, if only because this would restore the legal balance between the rights of the staff and those of the inmate. Minister, in July our country was once again hit by the CPT for the lack of service in prisons during prison strikes. That happened several times in the past, but now it happened in a public statement. It is quite rare for the Committee to condemn a country in such a public statement and in rather harsh terms. The Committee says literally that during its various visits to Member States, it has never seen anything like this in the last 27 years, on such a scale and with such risks. Minister, the introduction of a guaranteed service is included in the coalition agreement. You told us before the summer that you have already negotiated with the trade unions. After the CPT report, you announced that you would come forward with a draft on the guaranteed service. You will therefore understand my next questions, Minister. What's the progress on the announced design? When can we start discussing it if necessary? Did you respond to the recent CPT report? How do you see the implementation of the guaranteed service?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u108	Minister, I am largely in agreement with my predecessor's questions. You know history. The guaranteed service is included in the government agreement. There is the European Committee on Prevention of Torture and Unworthy Treatment's letter of formal notice. There is the protocol agreement No. 351 of 2010. It is clear from all this that there will be a guaranteed service in consultation with the social partners. That is important, because if there are strikes in prisons, compensation must be paid to prisoners. Moreover, the police must intervene, which is not part of their core tasks. I think they have more important business to attend to. I have asked a lot of questions about this. About a year ago, you replied that you were discussing this and that you would communicate about it in the near future. On 15 March 2017, I asked you another question about this. Then you said that you would try to have a framework agreement around by the summer to ensure the organisation of the continuity of detention. In the meantime, the European Committee would not issue a public statement. Only, however, last summer there was one, because there is still no ready-made solution. You know that this is indeed the subject of communication in the summer, and I have had to hear this from Mrs Turtelboom a few times in the previous legislature. That is why I would like to see the state of play regarding the introduction of guaranteed services and consultation with the social partners. Do you still consider it possible to introduce the guaranteed services in consultation with the social partners? Moreover, I am surprised at your statement that the Committee would not make a public statement on the poor service during strikes, which happened last summer. Why did the committee change its mind? In the meantime, have legal proceedings been completed? After all, a lot of procedures had been started in which many prisoners demanded compensation. If so, did we have to pay a definitive penalty payment? I would also have liked to have seen the total amount of periodic penalty payments that the Belgian State has had to pay in the meantime as a result of the 2016 strike wave in our French-speaking prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with me that patience is the mother of the porcelain shop. I am in consultation with the unions of the prison staff and will shortly present my draft to the coalition partners. With regard to the services to be guaranteed, we are of course inspired by the recommendations of the CPT. I cannot look into the minds of the members of the CPT as to what the committee has finally decided to issue a public statement and can only base myself on the letter from the chairman, which refers to the long period of time in which a guaranteed service is already requested. No court case has yet been fully completed. Nevertheless, a number of judgments of the Court of Appeal concerning the principle of periodic penalty payments have become final, but the question of the amounts to be finally paid is still pending before the Court of First Instance. He will eventually have to fix the amounts on a case-by-case basis in relation to the circumstances in each of the prisons concerned. At the moment, a penalty payment has been paid in only one file. This is a very specific case involving one inmate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u110	Thank you, Minister. You say you're coming up with a design soon, and you're not talking about a season anymore, so I'm assuming that soon you'll be shorter than a season. We're counting on it. You will find a partner in us to solve the problem once and for all. I wish you every success and courage in making a decision, which is not easy, but which must come from it. We have already taken initiatives in this regard. As a result of the CPT report, we have amended our previous proposals once again, but I assume that if you are at the stage of a draft, all of which is now settled. Hopefully we will find each other in a constructive solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u111	Thank you for your reply, Minister. My reaction is the same as Mrs Van Cauter's. I hope that soon will not have the meaning that has been given without delay, but will be real soon. We're looking forward to it. My group, like Mrs Van Cauter's group, has prepared a proposal on this subject. We will certainly support you. I hope that your draft will eventually be adopted, that the discussions that have taken place have led to a certain consensus and that everyone can see that it can no longer be done as it has been. I look forward to your design. I hope I won't have to ask again what you meant soon. You already have our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u112	Question No 20529 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question. Question No 20544 by Mrs Özen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u113	Mr President, Minister, I would like to refer to the 2016 strikes in prisons. One of the reasons for this was that French-speaking prison staff did not want to participate in your rationalization plans. In Flanders, little or no action was taken against these plans. The Flemish prison staff was willing to go along with this, unlike their French-speaking colleagues. To the questions I asked you about this, you replied to me that the Anders Werken project was structured, that an expert group at DG EPI outlined a new theoretical framework for the 37 prisons and that a significant part of this exercise was already approved at the local consultation moments at the beginning of this year. In the spring, local exercises at national level would be discussed with trade unions. This would ultimately determine the final rationalised frameworks. Furthermore, it was also found that a number of establishments were below the number of staff required by the expert working group in order to be able to work properly. In the prisons of Antwerp, Beveren, Bruges, Dendermonde, Hoogstraten, Ypres, Ruiselede, Jamioulx, Nivelles and Paifve there was at least 1 full-time equivalent too short. For Brussels, there was no figure yet known because of the transition. The administration would recruit new staff for these ten institutions as a matter of priority. Minister, we are now a few months away and I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the state of play regarding the introduction of rationalisation plans in prisons? Were all local exercises approved at national level with the trade unions? Where was the departure from the local exercise and for what reason? Secondly, are the rationalised frameworks in Belgian prisons actually being achieved? In which prisons is staff currently lower than the saving framework? How many more staff do we need to add to what prison? Thirdly, has the staff shortage in the 10 prisons cited been eliminated? How many full-time equivalents have these prisons received since the beginning of this year? Fourthly, has the accelerated recruitment of staff affected the quality of training and the conditions for success? Finally, has there been a theoretical staff framework for the Brussels prisons? Do these prisons currently have sufficient staff under that framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u114	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the Anders Werk project was approved at national level for all prisons. For a limited number of prisons where the local syndicate did not agree with the proposal put forward by the expert group, the discussion was conducted nationally and a compromise solution was always found without any deviation from the objectives and general principles. However, in the short time that you have left me to answer, I cannot go as far in detail as you ask me. As far as your second question is concerned, the rationalised framework is almost being reached at the moment. On 18 September we had 25 full-time equivalents less than the overall figure for the rationalized framework. There are 6 800 staff of the 6 825 planned for the framework. In several prisons there are still staff members to join. The overall sum of deficits is more than 25. By organizing changes at the same time as recruitments, and as regulatoryly required changes have priority over recruitments, all frameworks will be gradually completed. As for your third question, in Ruislede prison, the deficit has been eliminated. In Ypres yesterday there was a small deficit, of 0.3 full-time equivalents. Since the beginning of this year, 419 new statutory staff have been recruited. 35 contractual staff could start their internship after having succeeded in a statutory selection. As far as your fourth question is concerned, staff have been recruited at a higher frequency, but this has not had a negative impact on the quality of training. More groups have been employed and training has been provided on a continuous basis. It is clear that the success rates increased because the people who were now participating were much more recent in the selections and therefore were often more interested in a job in prison. At the beginning of this year a completely new selection was launched, which means that the latest selections include people who are really interested and who can often be readily available to the penitentiary administration. As far as your fifth question is concerned, the establishment of the Brussels prison still needs to be made official. The exercise Anders Working is done in each prison separately and is stable. The Brussels prison currently has sufficient staff. However, due to the change scheme, more and more staff are leaving for other prisons where there are vacant places, which means that new people are coming into Brussels. The Anders Working framework for Brussels prisons is 620 full-time equivalents. In this respect, they are 664.8 full-time equivalents. Thank you, Mrs De Wit, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. These are all very interesting figures, which also represent a lot of progress, knowing that everything is gradually being filled in. I hope that the deficits can be eliminated as quickly as possible so that, within the current rationalisation, the workload on the work floor can be reduced for the staff. Even though it was necessary to consider the need for adjustments per prison, I am pleased that a compromise could be reached without deviated from the objectives. I'm sure I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u116	Minister, since the beginning of this year a calendar has been distributed as a trial in the Netherlands in five Dutch prisons. This includes a weekly unsolved murder or disappearance case as well as a reward for a golden tip. The pilot project appears to be a success. A lot more tips came in than usual, and some cases got solved. That is why the Netherlands has rolled out the project in all Dutch prisons. For example, 52 cases are hoped to be resolved. In the Netherlands there are a total of about 1 500 coldcase cases. Could such a calendar also bring added value to Belgium? However, the zero measurement is not so obvious because unfortunately, the Justice Department does not have so many statistics, certainly not of the number of homicide cases solved or unsolved. The answer to a parliamentary question from Mrs Van Hoof showed that 855 murders were recorded in Belgium from 2010 to 2014, but it was not possible to tell how many of them remained unsolved. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. How do you assess the Dutch pilot project with the calendar? Could it also make sense in Belgium? How many murders have been registered in Belgium in recent years? In the meantime, are there any figures of the number of homicide cases that are going to be solved and, therefore, of those that remain unsolved? If not, why is this not being done? If so, how many percent of registered homicide cases have been resolved in the meantime? Finally, how many cold cases are there in Belgium at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u117	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the Dutch initiative you are talking about needs to be examined further with the prosecution, the judiciary, the police and the prison system. There are legal and operational aspects to which I cannot yet give an assessment. As you know, there is a legal framework in Belgium for informant activity under the direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I am counting on your understanding of the fact that, within the short timeframe for answering an oral question, I cannot obtain figures from the statistical analysts of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Moreover, this depends on the definition of an unsolved murder case, which is inter alia related to the qualification of the offences and the time at which that qualification takes place. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u118	Minister, I fully understand that you will not be able to obtain figures within a short period of time. However, I really hope that on a beautiful day there will be a system in which these figures can be called up and printed with a few clicks. After all, in terms of policy, it seems obvious to me to know what the figures are. Measuring is knowing, that's how I've always been taught. I am confident that someday the Justice Department will take that hurdle so that it doesn't require much research as opposed to the current situation, with figures being asked for everywhere according to systems that have been put together by the public prosecutors themselves to keep track of numbers and registrations. So I still hope that one beautiful day this can just roll out of the printer via the computer. In the meantime, I'll be patient. I will ask my question in a different way, to try to get the figures, giving your services a little more time to prepare an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u119	Merci, Madame De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic727x.u120	My question No 20516 attached to Question No 20233 by Mrs Dumery is postponed. I turn my question no. 20474 into a written question. Our work is therefore closed.
