ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u2	You are asking for the floor on the order of business, Mr Hedebouw?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u3	Mr President, yesterday we learned that there had been a meeting of group leaders, in particular to set up a working group which, at the end of June, should present conclusions on good governance and transparency. As you know, we are not present at this meeting of group leaders. I don't know if you're sorry, but that's certainly a fact. Having said that, it seems important to us, as a PTB group, to have an approach to analyse past mistakes. Some colleagues have mandates, we do not know exactly which ones, but in this case, in the case of Telenet, it seems to us important that we have access to the Chamber's Ethics Committee to analyse the presence or absence of conflicts of interest related to mandates. In the context of telecommunications, for example, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, we have passed a law via Proximus...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u4	Mr. Hedebouw, just a moment. Excuse me for having to interrupt. Mr Van Hees has sent me an e-mail on this. It is a question of appraising the deontological committee on a number of possible cases of conflict of interest. This is washed up together with the committee and the working group that we announced yesterday. So, Mr Hedebouw, the answer to your question is very simple: yes, you can grasp it. That's a written procedure. If you collect 50 signatures, that committee will be caught.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u5	Mr President, two points. Firstly, we propose to change the order of business and put the item on the agenda today and ask the deontological committee to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u6	Changing the order of the day is also regulated. You must have the support of 30 Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u7	I submit for signature a proposal to amend the agenda which must indeed be ratified by 30 colleagues and approved. So I'm asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u8	We shall do so after the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u9	I will therefore table the request for amendment of the agenda, which can be distributed to all groups. I have no doubt that it will be accepted unanimously in the name of this desire for transparency. After the oral questions, we can hold this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is with some astonishment that in reading the press, we have learned that two of the parties of the majority government would be willing not to lead the much-anticipated corporate tax reform on the occasion of the fiscal adjustment this spring. Indeed, you would have been asked by the N-VA and the CD&V to postpone this ambitious and long-awaited tax reform in order to restore tax justice to the benefit, in particular, of SMEs which, today, in our country, are undoubtedly the least favoured economic players in terms of taxation compared to other economic operators. It is therefore difficult to understand the pretext used by the parties of the majority to postpone, once again, this project announced several times and, each time, postponed. By the way, those who believed, in the north of the country, that the theory of the two democracies would spare the north of the country scandals will have to reconsider their judgment a little! Obviously, this theory does not have the desired effects. The arrivals are on both sides of the linguistic border! We would like to understand what the real political meaning is, if this is confirmed by the government's intention to postpone this tax reform. Is it, in the end, still the divergence on taxation on the tax gains of a number of economic sectors that would justify the government being unable to move forward in the latter? It would be rather deplorable if, in the current circumstances, no positive signs of a return to tax justice in corporate tax matters, which remains particularly high in Belgium, were given by your Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u11	Prime Minister, our group has hunted you and your majority over the last few days and weeks to sit around the table together to take action on political renewal. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you that the government will be an engine for this in the near future. With the same determination, we have been calling for a number of fiscal reforms to be implemented for some time now, in order to make taxation in our country fairer and simpler, both for individuals and for businesses. You have committed yourself to that in the Chamber. In the autumn, during the State of the Union, you said that you would personally care as Prime Minister. Bad news for the Minister of Finance, but perhaps good news, we thought then, to unblock the file and quickly take care of those fair and simple taxes. As you know, we have long been asking for a fair contribution from the greatest capabilities, but another dossier, which is just as important, is now in danger of getting bogged down. It is a fair corporate tax, it is a matter of reducing the corporate tax paid by SMEs, it is a matter of abolishing it, it is a matter of making taxation clearer and simpler, and it is a matter of ensuring that large companies, multinationals that pay little or no corporation tax today, do their part. I read today that this would move in time, not with the Easter bells, but even until after the summer. I would ask you, above all, not to do that, to get rid of the ambiguity, because it costs us points today, costs jobs, costs investments. The legal uncertainty in the area of corporate taxation, Prime Minister, is the biggest enemy of a sound investment environment. So the longer you delay it, the more you actually give the message to companies to wait and perhaps do it somewhere else, because you don't know it yet. It is important that the Easter bells lay eggs on that plane. I do not know if that expression is entirely correct, but I hope that the message is clear: make sure that we are clear on this matter quickly. When do you intend to put the fair corporate tax here on the drawing board as a draft bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are almost half this Parliament. Over the past two years, this government has taken many decisions with the support of a parliamentary majority. Very often this has given rise, Mr Maingain and Mr Calvo, to lively debates on the democratic level, to exchanges of sometimes muscular and hard ideas, because differences of opinion could arise as to the solutions that we have proposed, defended and, in many cases, voted to transform our country economically, to stimulate activity and investment and to create more jobs. In recent weeks we have been confirmed that we have made the right choices. For example, look at the latest reports from the National Bank, the Planning Bureau and international institutions, all of which are in the same direction: there is clear and strong job creation, especially in the private sector. That is a big and important difference. We also see, for example, that the number of bankruptcies continues to decrease compared to the previous situation, and that the trade balance is again favourable. This had not been the case in the last seven years. I want to be vigilant again. At no time have we slipped into a form of stupid triumphalism: there is still work on the board. I want to reaffirm our commitment today. 2017 should be a useful year. A useful year for the economy. A useful year for our country's capacity to meet the challenges, including in the social field. With regard to the tax files and the questions asked, I do not intend, as Prime Minister, to be impressed by one or the other assumption inspired by comments from the press, even if it is on the front page of a newspaper. I said, several weeks ago, that I will consider when the government will be able to make the arbitrations. What matters to me is the quality of decisions. We must continue to take it for the sake of economic efficiency, within the framework of taxation, on the economic life of our country; and work – we commit ourselves to it – for tax justice and fairness. This is the path we will continue to follow in the coming weeks and months. I will not be locked in any futile ultimatum of the press or opposition parties. We will appreciate when, in 2017, we will be in a position to ensure clarity, stability and legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u13	Prime Minister, we could talk a lot about your record. One could speak of job creation, which remains weaker in Belgium than in the average of the other European states. This is a reality that shows that performance is far from being the highest in Europe. But the stocktaking will be done in due course. It was in your government policy statement and in your recent statements that you announced that early this year there would be tax reform. It was deferred to the budgetary adjustment, at the time it had not already been possible to reach a conclusion in the preparation of the 2017 budget. You're still putting it forward indefinitely. And you say that it is not the opposition parties that will impress you! Of course, we know that nothing impresses you! But I would point out that the President of the FEB is asking for clarity on business taxation. Read today's press! It's not the agitation of your own parties. Differences and the inability to reach agreements is ultimately your problem, in your majority. It is the business world that tells you: "Now we need legal certainty!" You don't create the climate for investors. This is the world's first sanction for corporate tax reform! Your ambition is the least you can say!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, if I had wanted to hear the presentation of the National Bank's annual report, I would have just gone to Jan Smets' presentation. However, I did not ask the Governor of the National Bank, I asked you a question, our Prime Minister, who committed himself here in the autumn to tackling this tax reform. This tax reform could certainly be accompanied by a broad consensus on corporate taxation, with the exception of the extremes in this hemisphere. So you do not have to look up the conflict at all, say that you are not being chased by the opposition and that you are not impressed. There is a very broad call from left to right, from union to Unizo and VBO, to make corporate tax fairer and simpler, more tailored to SMEs. You should embrace that support. The least you should say is that you want to take a little bit more time to work thoroughly, but that you will not wait until the summer as we read it in the newspapers today. Prime Minister, for us it is crucial that this corporate tax is there for Easter. If that doesn't happen, we're gonna drive investments away. This uncertainty may be of interest to us politically, because it will allow us to ask you questions on a regular basis, but it is economically and socially damaging. You need to get rid of that. You have made that commitment, take your responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Princess Elisabeth polar station and scientific research in Antarctica are in danger! The 2016-2017 BELARE mission has been cancelled and the risk of failure for the next mission is great, endangering the future of the polar station. The polar station is entangled in a bag of legal nodes and the Secretary of State does not respect the judgments and proposals of the Council of State to negotiate with the Polar Foundation. In addition, while its role is to facilitate research, it prohibits scientists from conducting research in Antarctica and from using equipment, equipment and even on-site data. Prime Minister, all this has a cost. This cost of mismanagement is enormous: 1 400 000 euros for a polar secretariat completely immobilized, 280,000 euros for the duplication of the organisation of the same secretariat within BELSPO, 600,000 euros minimum in court fees, tens of thousands of euros for an aborted mission of the Belgian army, 230 000 euros for another mission with blurred and questionable contours, i.e. a minimum of 2 500 000 euros less resources for the primary purpose: research in Antarctica! Prime Minister, there is no alternative to negotiating with the Secretariat of the Polar Foundation to find a way out. Belgium must be legitimately proud to have a zero-emission polar station in Antarctica. It continues the work of other pioneers in this region of the world and it is an international image that we cannot do without and that we can take advantage of! But any way out is through negotiation and not by diktats. The State must rise above conflicts in order to resolve them and not to stir them up. Prime Minister, it is time to put an end to unnecessary spending and return to good management. You have to appoint a mediator who brings the actors around the table. Are you going to do so to save the polar station and allow scientific research to develop in a serene and soothing climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for addressing this important issue. For decades, scientific research in this region, where Belgium has often played an important role, has been part of our history. I'll answer you with a lot of frankness. I recognize the tensions that exist and have existed for many years between private partners, the Polar Foundation, on the one hand, and the government, on the other. Already, during the previous legislature, unilateral terminations of agreements between the two parties had taken place, which clearly shows the complex history of this issue. That is how I remember, as you do, the various reports of the Finance Inspectorate, which raised a number of criticisms from which, it is normal that the government should be able to assess the assessments and the consequences. What is my wish and what is the commitment I want to make? The Secretary of State in charge is mandated by the government to make proposals to him, taking into account, as you mentioned, the various decisions of the Council of State that have been taken. We are faced with a legal dimension that we must take into account. We must also take into account the financial elements by checking the financial implications of the different scenarios. We must also ensure that this polar station continues to enjoy a good international reputation and that research in the fields of seismology, meteorology or glaciology continues to be carried out, which represent important issues. We should also be able to work to give the station a stronger international anchor, and we should ensure that with a strong Belgian presence, we can forge even more partnerships at the international level. In a word, I want to advocate appeasement. I hope that we will find the way out of a logic of litigation and opposition. It won't be easy, I measure it well. The Secretary of State is responsible for making proposals. The government's will is - I hope it will be possible over the next few weeks - to be able to present clearer and more specific commitments on this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u17	Prime Minister, I find your answer a little short. Tensions are significant in this area and scientific research suffers. The costs are high and the unnecessary costs already incurred are significant. There is no good management in this case. If proposals were to come, they should have come out a long time ago. The role of the public authorities is not to fuel controversy, but to solve problems. I wish you would have told me that outside mediation would be undertaken to resume the dialogue. I am disappointed that I did not hear you on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, in December, our President Peter Mertens wrote his book Graailand. It has become a bestseller: it has been at the top of sales figures in Flanders for six weeks in a row. However, we never thought there would be a movie of that book every night on TV. We'd never have thought that. We never thought that so many things would come forward that angered the citizens. Let me sum them up. Publifin: 500 euros per minute for a meeting where no decision is taken; Kazachgate: 2 000 euros per hour; PubliPart: 19 000 euros per year; Telenet: 12 000 euros in the pocket plus 2 000 euros per meeting. What are we doing? It is, of course, easy for politicians to approve an index jump. If you make that much money, it's easy. To approve increases in VAT and excise duties is easy. Mr President, EUR 350 000 a year and then another EUR 12 000, is that responsible? The citizen today expects something different from politicians. Today, citizens expect politicians to live as they live. We live with the Labour Party on a normal employee's wage. We know what it means to have to pay EUR 100 more in VAT at the end of the month. We know what that means, as all our seat badges are returned. We know what it means to live like humans. Here we are acting as if nothing is going on and we are not having a debate to see how we will regain citizens' confidence. Mr Minister, my questions are very clear. First of all, what will you do to restore confidence? Secondly, this is for all my fellow Members, what do you think of the idea that all the mandates in the public services and in the private sector should be put on the table, I say all the money that is being made of them, so that the citizen knows who is doing what in Parliament? Shall we do so, ladies and gentlemen? Apparently so? Or not, isn't it? It's about time. My third question, Minister, is this: what do you think of the idea that today, for all the companies in which the State participates, there is an obligation to say clearly who is on its boards? After all, ladies and gentlemen, this conflict of interests cannot continue. I asked the question a moment ago whether, while we have debated Proximus and tuttiquanti, some fellow Members of this House are simply paid by Telenet? That is all very easy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u19	Mr Hedebouw, you must conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u20	Mr President, I will end it. I know it's a bit annoying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u21	No, absolutely not. But you have to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u22	But it is necessary to ask good questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u23	Well, you're at the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u24	Prime Minister, what will happen to restore public confidence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u25	You spoke for three minutes. That's a minute out of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u26	Mr President, I learned a lot last week. I learned that 7 200 euros a month is a normal income for a hardworking Fleming. How deeply is one anchored in the gray culture, when one begins to say such things? How deep are we then anchored in it? I know what the real Flemings think of that. It also appears that a number of MEPs, including the top-paid politician in this country, are in the Telenet lobby group and are being paid generously for this. There are now four traditional lots of butter on their heads. The N-VA, Open Vld, sp.a and CD&V all have four butter on their heads. How can we adopt regulations if we are lobbyists at the same time? There's something else I understand. I once read the following from a politician: "Some people claim that they don't know how much money is in their bank account, but I don't believe that. I know that. Money is important to me, dixit Siegfried Bracke in Humo in 2000 in "The Seven Main Sins." Then there is the phenomenon of phantom MPs. These are Members of Parliament who come here to vote alone. There's some for me and behind me. We need real Members of Parliament, because the parties get enough funding to pay their President generously. We need real Members of Parliament here, out of respect for the many fellow Members here who work hard and do not do any additional work elsewhere. Then there is the situation of the ministers. Former ministers will have two full-time employees. Why? Is that to be brought here by a driver, as some mayors and ships do? Even ministers who are not entitled to do so, because they have resigned themselves, will also receive those staff members. The Court of Auditors' 2007 report shows who these two ministers are, namely Louis Michel and Johan Vande Lanotte. Then there are former Prime Ministers, Mr Dehaene and Mr Verhofstadt, who are doing a lot of extra work. Mr President, I will conclude, I know it is painful. Then there are the euro politicians. Louis Michel states that 4 800 euros is a salary of misery. Karel De Gucht joins Proximus and Arcelor-Mittal. Herman Van Rompuy left Europe with a farewell premium of more than 500 000 euros and receives a monthly pension of 65 500 euros. That game's been going on for a long time. GRECO, the anti-corruption cell, has been running since 2000. Prime Minister, will you consider the deontological rules in the government? Will you also bring up the rich life of some EU politicians at European level? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u27	Colleagues, of course we are talking about personal facts. However, I propose that we stick to the agreement and therefore allow the Prime Minister to reply. (Protests from Mr Calvo) Mr Calvo, the Prime Minister has the floor. You don't have the floor. Mr Calvo, I call you to order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is fragile. That's a strong conviction. The confidence of citizens is a particularly important element if we are to maintain a strong and dynamic democratic political model. I am, of course, aware that the situation over the last few weeks, perhaps even the last few months, creates a feeling of distrust of the democratic institutions. I do not wish to underestimate that, quite the contrary. That is why I am convinced that both the government and Parliament should have a reasonable and rationally credible debate on a number of important points. I would also like to point out that, in my view, we would make a mistake if our approach would give the impression that everyone is concerned by an attitude that would not be clean, acceptable or abusive. We would also, in my opinion, slip to error and fault if we were not able to assume a number of principles. What are these principles, what are they? First of all, transparency. Indeed, I follow the reasoning that full transparency should be possible for institutions with public participation. That makes sense to me, too. Secondly, on transparency: the issue of remuneration. We need to have discussions to identify what are the fair and correct levels of remuneration. It also seems to me to be logical. In this regard, allow me a personal opinion, perhaps not that of the government - this has not yet been discussed. Sometimes I wonder. Is there not in our country a lot of ministers, a lot of agents? Perhaps we need to link this issue of remuneration to the very high number of political and public functions. Another important point is that it is obvious that conflicts of interest. A strong fight against conflicts of interest is necessary and necessary. Transparency is important here. It seems to me that some people have sometimes wanted to cast some into pasture in the name of widespread suspicion. For my part, I believe that Parliament and the government must constantly reflect on a strategy to better prevent the temptation and risk of a conflict of interest. To that end, we can build on the requirements of the Corporate Code. In private companies, rules exist in this regard. If a conflict of interest arises, information duties are provided, as well as prohibitions from participating in certain deliberations. On all these issues, I do not intend to put my head in the sand or ignore this very legitimate expectation of a credible and orderly response, which does not slide towards populism and demagogy - which would undermine confidence in the institutions. That is why, when Parliament chooses - as seems to be the case - to move towards work with order and method and to give itself time in the weeks and months to come to work seriously on this issue, you will be able to count on the cooperation of the government. I would add that it is my intention, within the government, to look at how we can take one initiative or the other in order to meet this requirement of transparency and mobilize ourselves against conflicts of interest. You will have understood this, on these subjects, let us avoid demagogy, populism and generalization overtly! Let us not waste the honor of women and men who assume responsibilities. Let us live up to this debate, because democracy is worth it. It has a price, which also consists of allowing fair and transparent remuneration, truly representing universal suffrage. That is the important issue we are facing. It's up to us to stand up to this one!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u29	Prime Minister, you said that democracy has a price. Obviously, for some, the price is high, that is the least one can say! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u30	Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u31	Let Mr Hedebouw speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u32	You talked about suspicion. Let us be very clear, the origin of suspicion is the lack of transparency, it is not those who denounce it! You have to stop "fucking" with that! People's suspicion comes from the fact that they discover, on a day-to-day basis, that some will earn a little more. I heard that in private companies, the code was better. I would remind you that Telenet is a purely private company. At Telenet, we create a small committee where men and women politicians are invited, who are paid 12,000 euros for some advice. This is not a problem in Belgium! These are neutral weather advice, etc. This has nothing to do with telecommunications legislation. This has nothing to do with the laws concerning Proximus. It's just to get some advice that we pay the small committee a little bit! A little serious, ladies and gentlemen! It is time, today, to move away from words to deeds. We asked concrete questions. Does everyone agree here to say what his warrants are, where and how much he is paid? (...): Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u33	We agree. For when? In two weeks? Everybody do it? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u34	Of which act, Mr. President. In two weeks, everyone will communicate to the president of this assembly – he has enough work for now. He's paid 305,000 euros for that, that's not bad! – his warrants indicating how much he earns.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u35	Thank you, Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u36	You're gonna... you're
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u37	No, Mr Hedebouw, Mr Vuye has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u38	I think we need to take urgent action...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u39	What you're saying doesn't count, because the microphone isn't on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u41	Mr Hedebouw, I call you to order for the first time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u42	I'm gonna finish. Colleagues,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u43	Democracy is also: sticking to the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u44	Relax! It's just a little transparency!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u45	I can follow you, Prime Minister. Are there too many institutions? Of course there are too many institutions: nine parliaments, eight governments, three supreme courts, even two kings and two queens. There are, of course, too many institutions. That transparency and openness will be important concepts, I can quite believe, because your participation and your gray culture are two things that go hand in hand. It would be a good thing, for example, for the mandates given as politicians, to attach and publish the tax certificates as an annex to the mandate declaration. That is very important for the many hard-working politicians who do not participate in that gray culture. We cannot deny, however, that the four traditional parties are very happy, you are now with four gray champions in the ranks. The Flemish electorate will undoubtedly appreciate this situation. I'm sure he won't forget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u46	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, your colleague has made a number of statements concerning a particularly difficult situation in which, unfortunately, the local task forces in this country are already struggling, namely the fate of the children of people who have left for Syria, and of the children who have returned from Syria. I know that this is a very controversial issue, which has to do with a humanitarian response from our country and with security concerns. It also has to do with a number of principles of our rule of law. Belgian children could in principle return. I am glad that this item was finally brought to your attention by your colleague, with the ambition to clarify, even though it is a very diverse issue. The frustration, which I myself want to express, is that today it is completely unclear what the local authorities, the LIVCs and the local task forces should do with that. Minister, you seem to be working on some sort of roadmap on this problem. Is that right? What is the government's view on this matter? In the context of asylum policy, decisions have already been taken that we saw the need to expel young people and refuse asylum applications. I don't really follow it anymore. There is no doubt that there is a need for clarity about the fate of particularly young children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u47	Mr President, Mr Bonte, thank you for your question. I can tell you that two exchanges of views have already taken place in the National Security Council. It is therefore not the case that this case is being set in motion by means of a newspaper article. The first requests from returning persons from Syria are coming in. So far it has been a matter of a few women, whether or not with children, but we will soon be faced with the return of children. Allow me to quote a few figures in this respect. On the OCAD lists there are 35 children who would currently be in Syria. However, we also know that a number of people who left here a few years ago for Syria have had children there. According to very good indications, a total of 80 children may return to Belgium. The concept of children is very diverse here, because it goes from baby babies and infants over preschoolers to 15- or 16-year-olds. Of course there is little danger for babies and infants; rather, they are victims and should be treated as such. But some of the 14 to 16-year-olds have not all received training and carried weapons, and they have done things that no one expects, certainly not from people of that age. Our approach must therefore be diverse. How does it work in concrete terms? These are people who have been on the side of ISIS in Syria and who now want to return. The adults are made available to the judge and the children are made available to the juvenile judge. The juvenile court will have to decide whether or not these children carried weapons there and were trained to do certain things. An Inter-Ministerial Conference on Justice has already come together, together with the Regions and the Communities, to ensure appropriate psychological guidance and care for children who are not persecuted by juvenile judges. These data will of course be reported to the local task forces and to the LIVCs, so that further follow-up can be carried out. In this sense, a plan of action has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. It is our all destiny, including yours, that the truth always runs faster than policy. After all, there are already children in our country who were born in Syria. I can only witness a form of chaos that arises at a time when such a thing happens. Fortunately, there is a great deal of expertise in this country on asylum and integration policy, as well as on the dramatic problems of children who have grown up in horrible circumstances and child soldiers. So we have expertise at the burglary offices and asylum centres. I strongly recommend that, together with the regional authorities, we create a coherent system of follow-up and, where necessary, psychological follow-up. In any event, the test for the federal government will be to clarify the administrative status. Is it effective about Belgian babies? Is it about kids who can legally stay in this country? On this basis, all known actors can be brought together, subject to a cooperation agreement. Today we are working completely side by side or at least we are often blocked because we do not know how to deal with things. So I insist on speed and clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u49	Minister, the passage of the Imam of the Grand Mosque of Brussels, the seat of the Islamic Cultural Centre, has not gone unnoticed. He said in the Committee of Inquiry to respect the laws of this country, while his Islamic Cultural Centre pays the fines for women wearing a forbidden nikab. He claimed in the Committee of Inquiry that there was never a Syrian warrior in their class, while several judicial documents and the recent OCAD report show that several Syrian fighters were trainees there. That Islamic Cultural Centre is funded from Saudi Arabia and uses its resources for the Islamization of our capital. We have been asking for more than a decade to phase out this funding and to terminate the lease agreement with Saudi Arabia. The last time we asked you to do so, Minister, you said that you would have it examined by the State's security. A few months later, you came to the conclusion, as your answer to our written question showed, that there was no reason to terminate that lease agreement. In the meantime, things have changed. There's the recent OCAD report. We heard here last week that a few other parties have suddenly discovered Salafism and suddenly want to drain those funding flows. Those who listened carefully last week, through the cheap screaming of the Prime Minister, found that they did not answer our question at all in order to stop funding flows from Saudi Arabia. Hence my question to you. I hope that today I will have a concrete answer to my specific question. Will you terminate the lease agreement with Saudi Arabia for the Great Mosque at the Cinquantenaire Park in Brussels as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u50	Mrs Pas, the answer I gave a few months ago on the same subject was an answer that was entirely based on the state security screening, as I announced at the time. Firstly, as regards the specific approach of the Great Mosque and of Salafism in general, it was stated here last week that this has already been discussed in the National Security Council, and that the National Security Council instructed the security services to draw up a global plan of action on Salafism and violent Salafism, as well as on the various prayer houses that would be included. We are now awaiting a coordinated action plan from all services. The intention is to re-examine and implement this in the National Security Council. Secondly, you referred to the fact that the parliamentary committee of inquiry is also working on the subject. I can commit myself on behalf of the government to the fact that we will carry out the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on this subject in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u51	Mr. Secretary, two years ago, you waited for the State Security investigation. Now you await the national action plan. In the meantime, however, it has been 60 years since King Baudouin was in a generous mood and especially in exchange for a lot of oil to the Saudi king Faisal through a lease agreement that gave 2 000 km2 to the Cinquantenaire Park in Brussels. It is more than time for something to be done about it. In the meantime, everyone has finally come to the progressive understanding that things are going wrong in the Great Mosque. By the way, the Great Mosque holds and finances about a third of the mosques in this country. It is therefore high time to put an end to this. After all, a mosque controlled by Saudi Arabia, one of the financiers of Islam terrorism and of Al-Qaeda and IS in particular, really does not belong in our capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u52	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, we are concerned or should be concerned about the political situation in Romania. Let us not forget that this is the second most important country in Central and Eastern Europe that has joined us in the European Union. Let us also not forget that not so long ago – Ceausescu lived after the Second World War – this country was under communist control. We also know that this country has experienced many political and corruption hazards. We will remember in particular the maneuvers of the then socialist government to prevent an honest presidential election, which did not prevent Mr Iohannis from being elected. The conditions for the resignation of the same government, following the burning of a discotheque, will also be remembered. After elections that brought this socialist party into power into a coalition, major demonstrations took place about a decree relaxing anti-corruption legislation – Mr Hedebouw spoke a lot about corruption – which recalled the dark hours of the Romanian revolution of 1989-1990 that ended communism in the country. Beyond this decree significantly reducing the penalties for abuse of power and introducing a minimum threshold of damage of 44,000 euros to qualify a crime, and the way in which the government has bypassed the parliament, other recent measures also raise questions. I would mention the pardon of 2,500 prisoners serving sentences of less than five years, the decriminalization of certain offences, which ultimately freed convicted political leaders, mostly from this socialist party, and put an end to prosecutions against other personalities. Deputy Prime Minister, what exactly is the status of the legislative process? Indeed, if the government has withdrawn the decree, it intends to table it in the form of a law. We feel very well that beyond the decree, it is the fight against corruption in Romania – and not only – and the strength of the Romanian government that is at stake. I would like to know your assessment of the political situation in Romania and of the point of non-return that this country is experiencing. This event in Romania, after the situation in Poland, underlines the value of your initiative to establish a deep political dialogue between the Member States in order to advance democracy and the rule of law in all the States of the Union. What is the status of your initiative in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u53	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, it is true that since 1 February hundreds of thousands of people have expressed their opposition to the government of Sorin Grindeanu. The opposition, as you recalled, crystallizes around the emergency order 13/2017, taken by the government on 31 January. As a reminder, the Ordinance relaxes anti-corruption legislation, including decriminalizing the abuse of power by civil servants and politicians when the damage is less than 200,000 lei, i.e. 44,500 euros. The order has been set aside, but it is not yet certain that Parliament will vote for the repeal. That's the first point. On the political situation: since then, there have been demonstrations in the capital, as in several cities in the country, to demand the resignation of the government. There are also counter-demonstrations in front of the presidential palace to demand the resignation of the president suspected of being behind the demonstrations that take place. It is very difficult to assess exactly the situation in the country at the moment. I would just say two more things. The first is that the European Union has a mechanism for cooperation and verification. The report on Romania was published on 25 January 2017, like the one on Bulgaria – that is, before the events. I cannot imagine that at the Council meeting on 7 March, when we are asked to take a decision on the conclusions, we did not include remarks relating to the events that are taking place in Romania and the need to annul this order and not to incorporate these provisions into the law. The second is that in February 2016, I made the proposal to move towards a periodic review of the rule of law in all Member States – you recalled that. This idea is progressing and a good half of the Member States stand in this direction and agree to go in this direction. The European Parliament has also taken steps to organise a similar process. I believe that this process would be a real response, particularly in terms of prevention to what is happening today. It would no longer be a question of pointing a finger at a country when a problem arises, but of making an annual situation of the rule of law. I have already said this in this House, Mr President: I find it quite normal that the budgets of each of the Member States should be carefully examined every year. It would be just as normal to carefully examine the rule of law in each of the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u54	Minister, my reply will be very brief. I thank you for all this information, in particular those relating to the most recent report of 25 January 2017. I hope, like you, that the European Council of 7 March 2017 will incorporate the new elements. We really need to support this "Reynders initiative", as I want to call it. I hope that the other countries, which are not yet convinced, will do so. However, I am surprised, in view of the events in Romania and despite the government in place, that the Belgian Socialist Party did not react at all. Is this due to some solidarity between socialists? Or is that a bad reaction? Minister-President Magnette believes that the solution – as he said in an interview with the newspaper Le Monde – is to evacuate the four countries, including Romania, from the European Union. That does not seem to me to be the right solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u55	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the neglect of the rights of interns has been a blame for justice for many years. To date, some 800 interned persons remain locked in an inappropriate penitentiary institution, where no or insufficient psychiatric care or guidance is provided. That is 800 too many, and we all agree on that. The truth is that in recent years there has been a serious catching-up movement in the field of internment. In 2015 there was the opening of the first psychiatric center in Ghent. The trend continued in 2016, when the potpourri III was adopted in the Justice Committee and later in plenary session, with the new internment law introduced in October 2016. The first places for long stay were also created and the forensic psychiatric center in Aalst was given the green light. Despite the efforts made, in October last year the European Court of Human Rights delivered a judgment in principle, in which our country of the court was given two more years to provide decent care for all interns. One of the initiatives that responds to this and will provide a solution to it is the FPC of Antwerp, which is supposed to open the doors one of these days and which will accommodate 182 interned people, including women for the first time. It was planned that this would be operational by 2016, but unfortunately it was postponed. The building is ready, but we are still waiting for the allocation of the operation. In November of last year, I asked you about the timing. You hoped or thought you could start before the end of the year. Unfortunately for those interned who are still in prison, that has not happened. How are the negotiations going? Have they been completed? Why hasn't the allocation been made at the moment? The most important question is whether you already have an idea of a specific opening date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u56	Fortunately, Minister, the time when interned people in our country were called the forgetful well of justice is long behind us. My colleague has already said that a lot of steps have been taken. In 2014 your predecessor opened the center in Ghent. Meanwhile, Antwerp is ready to give 182 interned a new home. The special thing about interned people is that they are people with a security risk, but also people who need treatment. These two aspects need to be implemented and monitored in that new centre. In the Master Plan Prisons you announced that additional centers are planned, including in Waver and Paifve. Aalst has already been mentioned, but in Antwerp, which we are talking about today, the search for an operator for the brand new center has now reached a final stage. However, some people are getting impatient, because this week we read criticism in the press. There were some heavy words, such as the federal government's guilty failure to act. It is said that the building has been there since August 2016 and that there is still no operation. It is time, Minister, to give a state of affairs from the government. That is why I have two specific questions. First of all, in the meantime, is the file ready for decision? When does it come to the Council of Ministers? Secondly, once the tender has been awarded, we know that there are three candidates when will the centre be operational? When will the first interned be able to be admitted? Are there any agreements, agreements or commitments in this respect? Can we get a clear picture of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you will not believe it, but this week I was at the FPC in Ghent to receive a copy of the etching that Mr De Block also received from the patient council in Ghent. I had already met one of the internees in the psychiatric annexe in Vorst, which is now closed. By the way, he gave an interview for the regional radio. He was very happy in Ghent. This man asked me in front of the managers of Ghent: "To whom will you award the assignment in Antwerp? Of course, I didn't answer, because I'm not on my own. I can assure you, however, that the dossier is ready for decision, Mr De Block can confirm it, and if it is somewhat helpful, we will be submitting the decision to the Council of Ministers next Friday, after which it will decide. Then we need about four months to operate effectively. I would like to point out that, in addition to the FPC in Ghent, which is largely the credit of the previous government, it must be difficult to admit that since Mr De Block and myself joined, three small internment centres have already been opened for long-stay patients in Zelzate, Bierbeek and Doornik. So everything is going relatively well together. However, I am sure that if Mr Van Hecke were in the government, the board would be even better than today, at least I read it this week in De Morgen, along with many other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u58	Minister, both the majority and the opposition see the efforts that have been made over the past five years. Despite the fact that the first internment law dates back to 1934, it took until 2014 to open the first Forensic Psychiatric Centre, so that comment does not necessarily come at the right time. We also agree that it is a pity that the building is now empty, that there are 182 empty rooms, to which 182 interned persons would like to move. I note that next Friday's Council of Ministers will assess the allocation and that the last straight line has been deployed. Together with you, we hope for a fast and good flow and opening of the new FPC.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u59	Minister, your answer was clear and positive. This matter will come to the Council of Ministers next week, if all is well, and at the latest four months later the start of the Centre will follow. Colleagues, the essence of a file on interned people is that we want to get all interned people out of our prisons so that they, provided security and treatment, but also provided that cooperation between the different authorities with responsibilities, are brought back to society as much as possible. We will all continue to work on this together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u60	Mr President, Minister, every week tragic accidents occur on our roads. This week we read about an accident in Sint-Katelijne-Waver, where a young driver lost control at night. Two young people died, two others were seriously injured. The driver survived. Apparently he drove recklessly, way too fast and was slightly intoxicated. The parquet did not consider it necessary to hold the driver and also decided not to proceed to an immediate withdrawal of the driving licence. In the meantime, we heard that the parents of Ver crashed children think this is a bad signal because of the parquet. It's not the first time either. Earlier, the parquet gave a little powerful signal not to demand the maximum penalty for the death Rider of Merel De Prins in the first instance. However, that driver drove too fast, he had a driving ban and committed a hit-and-run, hiding abroad for days. Minister, I do not think it is up to us to deal here with individual cases, whether it is about debt or mitigating circumstances. Of course, it is not up to politics to judge. However, we are investing heavily in the safety of our roads with speed checks, bob campaigns, alcohol controls and in Flanders an intertwined driving training that should deliver better drivers. There is also a consensus in this House to strengthen the fight against repeated crime. The punishments will be intertwined. Stricter penalties, of course, only work if the chain is completely closed. Apart from this week's accident, our roads still have over 700 deaths a year. In Flanders, people are talking about the shame of 400, which represents the number of fatalities on the Flemish roads. That's way too much. Every deadly victim, every seriously injured or injured one is too many. Parkets look at everything individually, case by case. The public prosecutor has to do his job independently, but the public prosecutor is also the representative of our society. Minister, what will you do to ensure that such crimes are dealt with in a rigorous manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, although, of course, the court is completely independent in the prosecution, we have nevertheless contacted the Mechelen parish about the tragic traffic accident in Sint-Katelijne-Waver, which has cost the lives of two young people and has seriously injured three other young people, including the driver. Mechelen's parish immediately appointed a medical examiner and a traffic expert, and indeed established that the person concerned was slightly alcohol-intoxicated, 0.73, and that he was driving too fast. The exact speed has not been determined. It is true that he himself was badly wounded and could not yet be interrogated. The Mechelen court has therefore informed us that it does not see the need for the immediate issuing of a temporary driving ban because the person concerned is unable to steer. A temporary driving ban, whether one can drive or not, is ultimately charged on the final penalty and deducted. In that sense, I think that, although we should be very strict in traffic, it would be possible, without saying anything to me, that in this case it would be appropriate not to impose that temporary driving ban for the time being. Just so we're clear, there's no hit-and-run of a guy with a criminal record and so on. It's a tragic accident that shouldn't have happened. In general, I can assure you that I will continue to urge the prosecution to consider traffic enforcement as a priority. The instructions of the College of Attorney General are clear. Yesterday in the Committee on Justice, in response to a question by Mr Goffin and Mr Blanchart, I clearly indicated the lines. We have completed a draft law to tighten the rules, together with fellow Members Mr Bellot and Mr Jambon. This will be submitted to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for the clarification you have given on this individual case. I do not think we should deal lightly with such traffic offences. I think it is necessary to take firm action against it. I understand you have a draft law that provides for a tightening up. You will find a supporter in us for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u63	Minister, I am very concerned about the future of Queen Fabiola Children's Hospital. We know it's a flower. This university hospital offers services around the child, including general paediatric care and more acute problems such as cancer and rare diseases. We come from all over the Children's Hospital, not only from Brussels, but from Flanders and Wallonia. We come from other European countries. It is recognized as a flagship in this matter. The Children's Hospital was first the victim of the savings you have planned, since you punctured 300,000 euros in the B7B. Recently, the hospital asked you to confirm his university work, which you refused in a mail. This mail is calling for more than one title. First of all, I think it's not you who really took the pen. This mail is relatively despicable for the hospital. We wonder how we really carry out academic missions there. One wonders what the overall strategy of this hospital really is. I find that surprising. On the other hand, this letter states that there are many university-type services in Brussels. Is that normal? One wonders what this question about Brussels has to do in this courier. Since that letter, many workers, many patients and many patient families have been concerned. What is your vision for the future of this hospital? You will answer me, but at the same time you will respond to all those who, for the moment, are worried and forming a chain to claim that the children's university hospital retains its place as a focal point for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u64	Mrs. Onkelinx, in the future, each hospital will have to be part of a loco-regional clinical network. The supra-regional missions will only be available in a limited number of reference centres. It is therefore necessary to determine for each of the care missions which centres are most suitable. These points of reference can be found in both academic hospitals and general hospitals. The Children's Hospital in question is a very important centre in the field of paediatric medicine. The hospital submitted an application for designation of all its services, functions and programs as academic. It is true that there are seven university hospitals in Belgium. These are hospitals linked to a Faculty of Medicine following a university's full curriculum. However, general hospitals may request the federal minister to designate their services partially or totally as academic, provided that certain criteria are met. However, this does not represent an automatically acquired or enforceable right. The Mont-Godinne Hospital is the only example of a general hospital, with all the services, functions and programs of care designated as academics. As you know, Queen Fabiola Children's Hospital received such a designation from Minister Demotte in 2007, but this decision was overturned by the Council of State. Then you were yourself in charge of Health and I find that you never reacted in this case. Last year, the hospital submitted a new application. I assessed this request and gave it a negative response. In my reply, I made a number of arguments, but the main reason is probably the fact that seven university hospitals – three of which are located in the Brussels-Capital Region – are largely sufficient to carry out university missions. This is in no way a question of the care provided within the hospital or of its expertise. Nor does this mean that the future of the hospital is threatened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have before me a document that comes from your services, which states that tertiary paediatric functions, paediatric oncology, pediatric hemato-oncology, paediatric intensive care, that is, the primary functions of the Children's Hospital will only exist in a number of university hospitals. Minister, if this document is confirmed, not only will the Children's Hospital no longer be able to bear the title of university hospital, but the survival of this referral hospital specializing in the care of children is also at stake. If this is not the case, I would ask you to reassure the teams of the Hospital des Enfants who deserve it as soon as possible, especially since, as a result of your letter, there are rumours not only about the latter, but also and especially about the public hospital centre in Brussels: Bordet is concerned, in particular, to speak only about this specialized hospital. I'll ask you again. Either you tell the Children's Hospital that it will be able to continue its activities as a referral hospital, or you do not confirm and, in this case, you will have a real problem with all those for whom the Children's Hospital must continue to exist, as it is a fundamental element in our provision of care for children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u66	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government has already implemented important reforms in the areas of pensions, unemployment and bridge pensions. However, there are still important challenges for us, including those relating to long-term sick and disabled. We note that the number of people in this system is increasing every year. Last year there were 370 000 people in that system. Of course, that costs a lot of money to the Treasury. Among the long-term sick, there are sick people who stay at home and have to recover 100 percent, for example patients who fight cancer. However, there are also long-term sick people who are still looking for partial reintegration into the labour market. I think it is the government's job to do everything in its power to give them that opportunity. The question is how we can achieve this. How can we ensure that employees get back to work, albeit in part? A number of proposals have already been made in the past. As an example, I would like to mention the proposal to increase the guaranteed wage, which now stands at one month, to two months. However, this is a bad idea, because this proposal affects all employers, and the costs for it could, according to calculations, amount to EUR 1 billion. It would mean that the competitiveness of our companies, which has now been restored, would be destroyed. We are convinced that a pragmatic approach must be taken. This means that the three actors, namely employers, workers' and doctors, must be responsive. We must give those concerned the opportunity and the task of getting back to work. If no efforts are made to this end, there can be talk of possible sanctions. We would like to put that proposal on the table. It is also the only way to reform the system and keep costs under control. Madam Secretary, I read that you would be presenting a proposal in the nuclear cabinet tomorrow. We are, of course, very interested in the content of that proposal. Can you give us any explanation on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u67	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the number of sick people, particularly long-term, is increasing. All the observers, in any case, the ones I read – if you have others, I would like to know them – link this increase to the tightening of working conditions and to the more limited possibilities to stop working earlier and to be entitled to time credits. They add that the expansion of opportunities, which are often obligations, night work, flexibility and overtime – as the government is about to do – leads to an increase in the number of people who develop burn-out, depression and illness. And that number is going to increase further. The question I want to ask you, minister, but also your government colleagues, is the following. How far will you go in the contempt of the workers? Everyone obviously shares the objective of keeping a link with their job and of being able to return to work as soon as possible. That's for sure! But we have passed a law called the "Reintegration Project", which came into force on 9 January. What was it announced then? It was said that the aim was not to sanction: "We will not sanction. Our goal is to stimulate and foster collective work involving the general practitioner, the attending physician, the medical advisor, the employer and the worker." Now, what do we hear, while no evaluation has yet taken place since the law has been in force for only a few days? We mean, "We're going to take sanctions, cut by a third the income – which already represents only 40 to 50% of the salary." This means that the life expectancy of the persons concerned will fall, while the poverty rate increases, as will the disability rate. It also means that they are no longer considered human beings, but rather machines that are expected to be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u68	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, but it is above all to the minister that I would like to say to her that once again she will disappoint me. Minister, since you took up your duties, you seem to have only one obsession. You are attacking the workers every day, and Mrs Gerkens has just said so, especially the sick. You say that it is not true, that the opposition invents, but I have to see on a daily basis that you have increased the price of medicines, that you have reduced sickness benefits, that you have reduced health care and access to sickness and disability insurance for some young people. Minister, these are facts that make access to health more and more difficult for our citizens on a daily basis. I would like to tell you, Madam Minister, with your eyes in your eyes, that no one...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u69	Not the hand in the hand!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u70	Not the hand in the hand but the eyes in the eyes, I would like to tell you that no one is sick because of pleasure and that no sick person is there to enjoy a system, as it seems too often heard on a daily basis. That is true, Mrs Gerkens said, the number of long-term diseases is increasing. Between 2014 and 2015, we increased from 5% to 8%. Nor, Madam Minister, will the measures taken by your government make things right. The flexibility of work, the decline in the pension age are two obvious examples, to name but a few. Today, you come back with this idea, which I call abject, of punishing the sick who cannot return to work. I consider, Mr Van Quickenborne, that this is an aberration and that it is a lack of respect for this category. Moreover, the social partners, in a unanimous way, have understood this well. They have clearly argued for a purely voluntary approach, but again you have flouted social consultation. Mr. President, I won't be any longer. I know that the two minutes of speaking time must be respected and I respect the Rules of Procedure. So these are my questions. Minister, what kind of behaviour are you going to punish? Will there be a clearly defined and objective list? How will you measure the active behaviour of patients? I read that the penalty could go up to a 25% reduction in the disability allowance. What do you intend to do for the punished patients who will fall into poverty from day to day, as well as their families? What amounts of savings have you decided to make on the backs of the sick thanks to this unacceptable measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u71	Madam Secretary, we read today in De Tijd that your policy on the reintegration of long-term sick and sick is becoming more concrete. You refer to the responsibility of both parties, both the employee and the employer. Mr Van Quickenborne, I can see you nodding. But I am somewhat shocked by the fact that you are starting from the purely financial aspect of social security. When I advocate that employee and employer be responsible for reintegration, that is from the human perspective. I'm declaring myself. Knowledge in the field of health care is improving. This means that many patients who have had cancer, for example, are cured and that many ex-patients, often with diplomas and a good job, are asking to be able to work again. I think we should encourage their reintegration from that perspective, not for financial reasons. Madam Secretary, on the one hand, you want to respond to both the employee and the employer. It is reported that fines of up to EUR 4 000 would be imposed on the employer. On the other hand, a quarter of long-term benefits would be paid if they failed to re-integrate. First of all, I have questions about that affair. Secondly, are there any exceptions or appropriate pathways being developed for chronically ill patients, such as Crohn's disease or patients receiving long-term cancer treatment? I do not think that is reflected in your proposal, although the previous government has put forward a number of proposals in this area, inter alia, to support employers who are so good as to keep workers working with a chronic disease. Madam Secretary, what companies are we talking about, big or small? Is there a different arrangement in this area? What about the amounts of sanctions and accountability? Are you also thinking of positive incentives for employers and employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u72	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am speaking to you but also to Minister Peeters, even if he is not present in the Chamber. The least we can say is that the government has very well hidden its game. I would even say more: the government has deceived and deceived not only the social partners, but also the sick concerned and the parliament. Why Parliament? I have here the report of the debates when we passed this bill. I quote Minister Peeters just two months ago about the reinstatement of the sick at work: "This is a voluntary mechanism." But you go further: you have, I said, deceived the social partners. In December 2015, the social partners had validated an agreement for voluntary reintegration into work. You then committed yourself to supporting this agreement and we read today that while this law has only recently been applied, you have decided to start a 180-degree turn. As far as long-term patients are concerned, should the minister encourage reintegration into the workplace? It's obvious, but your decisions are made in the short term, within a budgetary framework, and are counterproductive and brutal. Indeed, false patients are fraudsters and there are sanctions against them. On the other hand, making real patients look like carrots is not acceptable! As far as employers are concerned, unlike you, I think you can come up with a counterproductive system because you are going to block the possibility of being able to hire people who have previously been very ill, for fear that tomorrow there will be a penalty to the key. Minister, how can you explain to us that, despite Minister Peeters' commitment when the legislation was passed, you are now moving from a voluntary mechanism that he himself clearly validated to a mechanism with sanctions? Furthermore, have you taken the trouble of discussing with the social partners? I think they will be able to show you that the system of sanctions is counterproductive and will risk keeping workers further away from the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u73	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their questions. Since last December, there has been a regulatory framework for the reintegration of workers with disabilities. From now on, mutual societies, employers and prevention services are systematically working together to examine sick workers – at least those with a remaining capacity – to offer them suitable work. That's a positive story for the patients. They can be re-integrated into the workplace by means of customization. In the area of accountability, the government has been working on a framework for a long time to hold the full parties responsible in the absence of reintegration where it is possible. There are three parties involved. First of all, there are the employers. In the past, proposals have been made for employers to pay a second month's guaranteed wage. This would be a far too costly measure in the context of incapacity for work, which would also have an unacceptable impact on wage costs. It was proposed at some point that the employer should pay a contribution for each sick person who is ill for more than one month. It is impossible to find a basis for this. People don't choose to get sick. That's why a new proposal came to the government. The employer is also expected to make the necessary and possible efforts to get sick workers back to work, to the extent that this is, of course, medically possible. This can be about adapted work or part-time work, to the extent that this is practically possible for the employer as well. Research has shown that it is important that the employer and the employee stay in touch. Prevention service Mensura came out last week with an interesting study on the risk of the so-called fade-out, which means that the worker who is long-term ill has no contact with the employer and therefore disappears from the picture. The employer, like the employee, is also expected to participate in the reintegration process. Mrs De Coninck, an exception has indeed been developed for SMEs. My colleague Willy Borsus is here. SMEs, probably up to 50 employees, will be exempted from the measure. Those who clearly fail to fulfil their obligations can indeed be sanctioned. Those amounts also need to be discussed tomorrow. Whoever does what he has to do will be rewarded for it. I would also like to say the following on the question of worker accountability. Tomorrow, for the workers, a sick person who needs time to recover will be left alone. I've said it a thousand times and repeated it. It's not about sick people who can't work anymore. Those who are too ill will be left alone. Here too, exceptions are provided for. It is right that we have seen inexplicable increases in the number of long-term sick and disabled people in recent years. These increases are not always medically explainable. To a large extent, that is the case, but not always. I told you, who will contradict me in this? Any profiteers need to get out. We think, above all, that more tailor-made work is needed to get people back on a job. That's what it turns out to be on the premises. The patients want to get back to work: a lighter job, a part-time job, it's all possible. It could be a temporary step. We must not let people rot at home. In most cases, that works counterproductively. It is logical that, if it is medically possible, there should be two-way cooperation to get people back to work. Today there is a penalty for the workers: a complete loss of benefit. That is not our intention, but we do want a stick behind the door. The third party, referred to by Mr Van Quickenborne, are the doctors in charge. They also need to be responsive. Doctors who reasonably prescribe leave for a sick worker have nothing to fear. We are preparing profiles to detect abnormal, non-objective prescriptive behavior. Anyone who's known to only deliver notes will be dealt with. We are responding to the three parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u74	Madam Minister, thank you for the specific clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to encourage first and foremost, as Mrs De Coninck has already said. One has to give people back the chance to get back to work. I am convinced that many people also want to seize that opportunity. That framework was created by the government. However, we should not be naive. The rising figures are not complete by explaining objective factors. There's abuse in there, too. That is also the reality. We saw this at the time in the case of unemployment, in the case of bridge pensions and in other systems. Here too, we must take action. Madam Secretary, it is not a question of punishment. It's about responding. This means that people who make an effort will not be penalised, either by employers, workers or doctors, but action must be taken. Our plea is to start with companies with more than 50 employees. They have a staff department. They can do better than that. Let's start that trajectory first and see what that gives us. We will then be able to expand if necessary. You have the support of our group. This reform must be carried out. Otherwise, we risk taking enormous financial risks. Our Treasury can't afford that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u75	Mr. President, Minister, the state is facing serious financial risks. These risks are not the result of the behaviour of a few sick workers who do not return to work quickly enough, but rather of the development of bad budgets, poorly carried out austerity policies and a refusal to attack those who fraud a lot of money. I'm starting to get totally allergic to the word "accountability." This means absolutely nothing if we are in a relationship in which we want to help people become actors in their lives, in their health. In this case, there is no accountability! You don't tell people that they have the ability to, making every effort to make it possible. What is accountability here? That's to tell people that they suck, that they will be thrown away, and that they will be punished. This runs counter to the project of professional reintegration which you adopted in this Parliament in December. I hope you won't punish everything. You say we want to stimulate, we want to create a dynamic so that people get back to work and keep the bond. On this point, we agree with you. But what is creating a dynamic? It's putting people around the table, it's acting positively, it's identifying the difficulties and asking them how we can help them. When one can assess, when one can identify those who may abuse the system, one can imagine how to take more stringent measures. In this case, however, the law came into force on 9 January. It is still applicable only to workers who voluntarily register in the scheme, and you are making orders aimed at imposing sanctions and reducing incomes that now represent only half of the wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u76	Mr President, I agree with the conclusion just expressed by my colleague Muriel Gerkens. You are trying, Madam Minister, to justify the unjustifiable. You are trying to demonstrate the usefulness of a measure that is exclusively budgetary and that saves money on the backs of long-term patients. This is unacceptable! We've just alluded to the term "responsibility." Empowering the patient in this case means punishing him. It is a strange conception of life in society and the notion of responsibility! Empowering employers, you said. But in fact, you know very well that you will weaken the suffering workers, who will be more easily dismissed. In the end, your policy, Madam Minister, I'm sorry to have to tell you, is always the same. You attack the workers, the sick, the weakest. For you, it is really "walk or die", "work or dark in poverty". This is not our vision of society, and this is completely unacceptable to my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u77	Madam Minister, I believe that, together with your colleague for Work, Mr Peeters, you are best placed to consider what viable careers are for everyone, including those with fewer opportunities. You say that two months of guaranteed pay by employers is not feasible. I think that's sharp. Maybe that's right. But do you think it is feasible for people who are ill to give up a quarter of their benefit? I do not think that is feasible either! The sp.a has put forward proposals to give positive incentives to employers, and especially to small employers, for whom paying the guaranteed wage is heavy each time someone falls back. Employers who make an effort to do so, often because they have a stronger link with their employees, we would like to give extra support. Madam Secretary, please look at these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u78	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are sick or not. But if you think of real sick people as sick people, I absolutely can't join you. The sick cans are social fraud, and they have to be punished. But the system of punishment that you apply here to the real sick is first and foremost a complete questioning of the commitment that Minister Peeters made here just two months ago. That being said, failing to meet its commitments becomes your government's usual method of management. Taking harsh and brutal measures is obviously also your style, and especially when it concerns the sick. I ask you: which company will want to hire tomorrow a patient who has had severe cancer, who is cured, who wants to go back to work? The company will ask itself legitimate questions about what will happen in the event of a relapse. This company will risk being sanctioned and therefore will not take the risk of hiring this person. I plead, in my personal capacity, for a completely different approach: a positive approach that supports businesses and workers; a dynamic approach for the reintegration of sick people into work. Minister, you're choosing a brutal path. You choose a hard way for the sick. I am no longer surprised by you. Conversely, ladies and gentlemen of the CD&V, I urge you not to give in to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u79	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not clear to some politicians to correctly complete their mandates, so you will also understand that it is not obvious for many citizens to complete a very complex tax return. That is why there is a very good service provided by the FPS Finance. The local authorities organize sitting days in the town halls where people are welcome to go over the tax return together with an official and fill it out correctly. The municipal authorities are very valuable and enthusiastic partners. They organize those sitting days and make a PC and a local available to the official. It is strange that the citizens would be drained to the city centre instead of one official moving to a smaller municipality to receive the people well. The problem is that this service is now being reduced to the extent that the mayors and ships are holding hands. Who should they select if there is only one sitting day, instead of several days as before, and one can accept up to 80 people? What are they supposed to do? Do they have to pre-selection? They have nothing against the automation system, the electronic registration, but it is problematic, as we see in Lendelede, Waregem, Poperinge and many other places, that this cannot be organized properly. Minister, it is a bit the question of Moses and the mountain: who meets who where? The FPS Finance organized a lot of road shows and tried to attract people with that service and it's kind of weird that, when local authorities are willing to make the investment to provide good reception infrastructure and there is more interest than offer, one cannot answer all questions. That's too bad. I hope you can provide some solace.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u80	Mr Minister, my question is similar. I speak from my own experience, the FPS Finance left his buildings at the beginning of July 2016 in Harelbeke. In recent years, from mid-May to mid-June, personal income tax returns were filled in by FPS Finance officials. For the reporting period 2017, this service will no longer be provided in the buildings of Finance, but in our own city buildings. From now on, four sitting days will be set up and three officials will fill out declarations. Let me give you an example: 2 500 applications were completed in my city last year. That can never be taken care of by those three Treasury people on four sitting days. The contact person of the FPS Finance indicated himself that his experience shows that about 120 declarations can be filled out by three people. Make the sum: there are 480 in total. This means that 2 000 declarations cannot be completed. These are 2 000 families that can no longer be helped. We are certainly not the only city facing this problem. A year ago I put in a written question to know how many offices have been closed and what the consequences are. So far, I have still not received an answer to that written question. I would therefore like to have an answer to the following questions, Minister. In how many cities and municipalities are services being reduced compared to previous years? On the basis of which criteria should a municipality decide who and who is not allowed to visit on the sitting days in order to have their declaration filled out? Finally, if the demand of the citizens is greater than the supply, how do you intend to resolve it? Is there a possibility for additional sitting days or additional civil servants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment I cannot give you any concrete figures on the number of days spent in the municipalities, because the definition of what is happening, where and how it is happening. These figures can, of course, be explained at the appropriate time. I would also like to point out that over the last few years, the FPS Finance has systematically expanded its customer service, which is the taxpayer. This was done by working more flexibly and efficiently and not sticking to the service in or from one specific building or from a limited number of buildings. In addition, I would like to point out once again that the service provided by the FPS has received several additional elements in recent years. I am thinking of Tax-on-web, the website of the FPS Finance, which contains a whole series of questions and concrete answers; the contact centre, which is accessible by phone every day; the entire network of offices, which, especially in June, always received a nephrological month for the tax return, additional opening hours; and the online availability of the tax file via MyMinfin. In this context, the proposals for simplified declarations are also very important. Two million of these were sent last year, which means that there is a much simpler situation for a lot of taxpayers and there is often no need for notification. Finally, returning to the problem of municipal sitting days, it is true that in certain municipalities proposals were made and are made to allow the organisation of those sitting days to take place with pre-subscriptions. Some municipalities go into this, others don't. However, that is not a problem for the FOD. Moreover, these municipalities are under no circumstances obliged to work with pre-registrations. It's a question, not an obligation. Nor are they obliged to allow only a maximum number of persons. As far as possible, therefore, as requested earlier, efforts will be made to reconcile supply and demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u82	Mr President, Minister, I appreciate your efforts. Let's start with the positive. You clearly do not say a maximum, the number of officials will be in line with the real demand. It is important that we see these local authorities as good partners who are really concerned about the service. Certain boards, such as Waregem, have already had to see the administration leave. We understand certain reorganisation plans, but if we can no longer offer a capacity for assistance with the declaration, that is a step too much. I remember, in particular, that you say that there is still time and that we are optimizing the protocols with the local authorities. You also say that it is not mandatory to register, but that it is not a bad system in itself to organise that service properly and that every demand will be met as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u83	Mr President, Minister, I am less positive than my colleague. I gave the example of last year. There is not much difference between the declarations of 2016 and 2017. Something has changed for the 2016 declaration, namely that it has only become more complicated. More than 30 codes have been added, on top of the 800 codes already on the declaration. You yourself said that 82% of families fill in up to 20 codes. Well, 18% fills in more. That's what I call a complicated report. With you, it's the reverse world. The more difficult the tax return becomes, the more the services are reduced. In addition, you will roll the shrinkage on the local boards that should help organise those sitting days themselves. Fortunately, those administrations do that, because otherwise 100% of taxpayers would be in the cold. Admit it, filling out returns isn't that simple. If even the first citizen of our country forgets to file a declaration, it is also difficult for every citizen of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u84	Mr. Chair, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, improving rail safety is a government priority. Mr Bellot, you regularly remind us that the culture of security is essential. You do not fail to plead for it to be strengthened with the assistance of all the players on the rail. While safety depends on robust infrastructure and equipment, it relies primarily on rail workers and their ability to work. I have read statements this morning suggesting that there are malfunctions in the medical follow-up of railway workers within SNCB and Infrabel. My two questions will be simple. Minister, can you provide us with any clarification as to the proper functioning of the prevention and protection service for railway workers? Can you also guarantee that measures are taken in terms of medical fitness tests, safety certificates and statistical methods?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u85	Mr. President, Mr. Foret, if there's anyone who's following up on security issues in the SNCB, it's your servant. Therefore, you will understand that I was intrigued by what the press relayed this morning. Moreover, I would like to point out that I am always surprised to discover such messages in the media rather than to receive them directly. I think the interested parties could have sent me a mail. Following this morning's revelations, we interviewed HR Rail about the reported facts and, in passing, also about the presence of possible conflicts of interest. I asked, if these facts were confirmed, that steps be taken to put an immediate end to these acts. I hope that a doctor will not forget his Hippocrate oath when he enters the railway world and I will quote a small part of it: "In all the houses where I have to enter, I will enter for the benefit of the sick, keeping me away from any deliberate injustice, from any corruption in general. Everything I will see or hear during treatment, or even outside treatment, concerning the lives of people, if it must never be repeated outside, I will keep it quiet, considering that such things must remain secret."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u86	Minister, thank you for this reminder about medical secrecy and Hippocrates' oath. The relevant bodies, including the Order of Physicians, have been seized and I count on you to shed light on the process and on the proper functioning of the service at HR Rail level. I look forward to further clarification in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u87	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that Zaventem airport is an important economic hub, with 20 000 direct jobs. We all know that the expansion of Zaventem airport would put enormous pressure on those living nearby. As a resident of Leuven, I know both sides of this story. We drag ourselves from conflict of interest to conflict of interest. A sustainable solution does not seem to come out of the bus. Let us be honest, a quick fix or a miracle solution does not apply immediately. It is important, however, that we go for a package of measures that will ultimately make this dossier a positive one. I would like to point out an element which is specifically mentioned in the coalition agreement, in particular the underutilised potential of improved cooperation between military and civil traffic control. This could lead to better use of Belgian airspace and greater flexibility of flight routes. Belgium is already small enough. We must not make our airspace even smaller by closing down certain slopes. The cooperation between military and civil aviation could lead to much less noise for the municipalities around the airport. For example, it could ensure that the use of air routes above Beauvechain, Leuven and the surrounding municipalities are partly relieved. Mr Minister, have Belgocontrol and National Defence already presented you with a plan for better cooperation with a view to improving the use of airspace? If so, will you implement that plan as well? What perspective could it provide for better noise control for municipalities around the airport and around Leuven?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u88	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, the issue of civil and military synergy in air navigation services is a long-term project aimed at integrating civil and military air navigation services. It is important that we speak of mutual benefit. At the present stage, however, services and contracts remain separate. The first phase envisaged is to house the services together at Steenokkerzeel, each of which retains its own customers and its own operational principles and working procedures. There is no direct link to the problems of noise. In accordance with the coalition agreement, work on synergy is progressing. First, on 21 April 2015, a Memorandum of Understanding between Defence and Belgocontrol was signed and working groups were set up. Secondly, in February 2016, it came to a business case with the prospect of synergy for the year 2018. Finally, recently, on 25 January, an agreement was signed between Belgocontrol and Defence, which I took note of, and in which both parties commit themselves to joint housing, the objective of integration and the composition of the working groups in order to continue working on the various aspects of achieving synergy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u89	Minister, I understand that there is already an integration of services in progress. That is a first important step. The working groups must improve the use of airspace. Certain military flights need to be concentrated so that there is more room for civil aviation. I believe that we should be very creative and that you should continue to encourage better cooperation between Land defence and Belgocontrol in order to examine all the creative slopes so that the Flemish Brabander should not sleep both in Meise, the Noordrand, the Oostrand and around Leuven. The social partners and the various action committees and the municipalities are also involved. I hope that the consultation on 20 February will provide some relief for a sustainable solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u90	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u91	Mr President, with regard to the proposal for a law amending the Code of Criminal Investigation with a view to promoting the fight against terrorism (No 2050), I am going to table, in your hands, an amendment, after report, of course, for which I would like the opinion of the Council of State to be required.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u92	Mr President, with regard to the same bill, the Socialist Group has tabled an amendment through Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Crusnière and myself. The debate has been particularly interesting in this committee, except that the Council of State has given us a number of comments on the original draft law that has been tabled, particularly in the context of what can be called the duty of active information, on the non-compliance with the principle of proportionality. We have therefore tabled an amendment to delete this principle. We would therefore like the whole package to be referred to the Council of State for its opinion, given that we are well aware that it is a matter of combating terrorism - and we should not be angelic about it! - and that we had no objection to the principle of passive information. This consists in the fact that the social actors provide answers to the questions posed by the judicial services in relation to the serious clues. This has been the subject of a particularly long debate and we still have no answer to that. The principle of proportionality seems to us to be simply violated, and it seems to us to be useful, if not indispensable, for the Council of State to respond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u93	Mr President, I support the other Members' question. Our group is also tabling two amendments to Mrs Van Peel's proposal. I can only underline what the previous speaker said, in particular that there is a very strong support, including from aid, for the exchange of information to do everything possible to combat terrorist attacks. We have therefore tabled two amendments to that effect. So we also want to actively adapt the legislation in this area. We are asking for these amendments to be sent to the Council of State precisely because the first amendment gives substance to a fundamental legal uncertainty in the legislative proposal, as the Council of State itself has already pointed out. The committee is, however, incomprehensiblely unwilling to deal with this amendment. The second amendment seeks to organise the exchange of information between the social institutions and the security services in an orderly manner, in line with the discussion currently taking place in the Chamber of Justice. Mr President, I would also like to appeal to your role in this House. Conflicting legislative proposals are being discussed in one and the same Parliament. The Terrorist Attacks Committee has refused to invite the relevant Minister None, who is now trying to regulate this in the potpourriwet. Understand who can. Rather, we are faced with a symbol battle here, and it is primarily up to us to adopt legislation that allows both trust-based care providers to do their work, but at the same time allows for maximum information flow, in order to avoid attacks. We are therefore also asking for the opinion of the Council of State on both amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill creates an important emolument. You may have seen that there was a demonstration of social workers and several organizations this afternoon. This bill stigmatizes the profession, will make its work difficult, will even be counterproductive to the stated objective and represents a threat to the rule of law. We have not tabled an amendment to this proposal, but the PTB supports colleagues' request that the Council of State be able to take a decision on the amendments introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u95	Mr President, my group also supports this request for referral to the Council of State. It is true that the debates in the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism have been virulent, both in substance and in form. We oppose the provision concerning the active obligation of information, which will oblige officials of social security institutions, in particular CPAS and social workers, to proactively denounce serious indications leading to terrorist acts or preparing them. We have also tabled amendments. For us, this proposal goes in the opposite direction to our vision of society. We hope that the time needed to analyse the amendments by the Council of State will also make the minds mature. We hope for a debate in plenary which contributes to this because a whole sector is mobilized, actors on the ground, all parties combined - in each party, we can see people active in CPAS, in Flanders, Wallonia, in Brussels who are extremely concerned about the text proposed here. We are convinced that we must listen. This is a chance for colleagues in the majority to reconsider their position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u96	Mr. Chairman, we have conducted in-depth discussions on the bill that is on our bench today. The text obviously has nothing to do with the text originally tabled, it is no longer the same procedure. The text has been considerably improved, in particular following an opinion of the Council of State. However, we find that, at least in one of the amendments tabled today, there are elements that could perhaps, after the advice of the Council of State, improve the text both on the objective - which we fully share - and on the procedure. In a sensitive matter which involves two obligations, that of protecting citizens and that of professional secrecy, we therefore find it interesting to check whether we can go further in improving the text. For this reason, we will support sending the text for an opinion to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u97	Mrs van Peel, the debate should in principle be held later today, but it will be postponed. I note that there are more than fifty members who support these four amendments. We will therefore seek the opinion of the Council of State. We will be leading the debate as we get that opinion. Mrs van Peel, I fear that this is the application of the Rules of Procedure. You will have the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u98	Mr President, I will be very brief. Shame on you. I said in that committee at a certain point that you began to filibuster. You denied that. What you are doing today in a bill on the flow of information in the fight against terror is purely filibustering. You know that well enough. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u99	Mr. President, I don't know if it's flibustery. It is a parliamentary right that is exploited here by the opposition. We respect him. On the other hand, forgive me for pointing out that I am a little surprised by the position of the CDH who votes the text in committee and who, as often, turns his jacket and supports the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u100	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u101	You have supported the text, the CDH proclaims it in all the media, defends the bill as passed in committee and, here, returns its jacket. It looks like you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that an application of the Rules of Procedure is requested. I propose that we intervene briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u103	Mr President, Mr Ducrame has a strange reading of the statement I have just made about sending the proposal to the Council of State. We simply ask the Council of State to analyse what proposals come from some of the amendments that are being tabled today. On such a sensitive matter, it seems to us that this is legitimate and normal. This does not prejudge our final vote. I recalled our support for the objective pursued. We will continue to do so because it is fundamental in the fight against terrorism. Mr. Ducarme's cartoons are very far from the shade we bring!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u104	Mrs Van Peel, I do not take that as a reproach. Our question has nothing to do with filibustering. In committee, we sought legal certainty. The Council of State also notes that it is completely unclear what the consequences are of the law that we would approve. You do not succeed in explaining to the hundreds of thousands of people who are subject to the law what their duty is, what their responsibilities are and what the sanctions are. That is exactly what the Council of State notes. Mr President, once again, the government itself takes an initiative in the dossier with the draft potpourriwet 5, but the committee refuses to call the minister to the committee to explain this. I think you should take action to avoid imposing laws on citizens here, when we can no longer explain exactly what they are getting pushed down their necks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u105	Mr President, when we use the existing procedures, we are accused of being more filibuster. I want to make it clear that our group in committee has always tried to argue on the substance. We also asked for the opinion of the Council of State from the outset. A first opinion has been delivered. New texts have been drawn up on this basis. Once again, there was an opinion from the Council of State with very serious criticism. We have only noted that not all the critical comments made by the Council of State have been answered. So we still have an essential problem. Mr President, I do not take the view that we are filibustering. This is an essential debate, which we are also holding in the Justice Committee on the draft potpourriwets 4 and 5. This has also been an attempt to move very quickly. That does not mean that we do not want to discuss a principle, but things are moving too fast and that will have consequences that no one wants. That is why it is important to have a very thorough debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that more than 50 Members support the requests for consultation. I shall now turn to those amendments. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion which I have received before. I read the motion: "The House decides to add to the agenda of the plenary session of February 16, 2017, the question of making a request to the Ethics Commission. This request concerns the following two points: 1. Do the tasks of a representative of the people and the exercise of a mandate fall to be deontologically justified by a multinational? What is the risk of conflict of interest? More specifically, the question arises as to the combination of a mandate with a telecommunications company operating in the same market as the public undertaking Proximus. 2. Can the committee also propose maximum remuneration of additional mandates of elected representatives, both public and private mandates? The motion seeks to amend today's agenda. First of all, I have to check, according to the Rules of Procedure, that the motion is supported by 50 Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u108	Mr. Chair, you have just summarized the text of the motion. This motion would allow for a debate on two issues to be put to the Ethics Commission. The questions are obviously interesting. Yesterday, in the Conference of Presidents, we discussed this and decided to set up a working group in the Committee on the Interior, where everyone will be represented. Not only the groups formed but also the smaller formations will participate in the work of the working group. In order to avoid any fanciful interpretation, I would like to say that these issues will be on the agenda of this working group. We will discuss this without delay at the first meetings of this group. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents concluded that the overall report should be ready, at the level of the Committee on the Interior, not only at the level of the working group, by the end of June, so that the reforms can be voted on in mid-July. In this context, we will not support this change of agenda, not because we do not agree, but because yesterday's Conference of Presidents' decision seems to us to completely meet the expectations of the parliamentarians who tabled the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u109	Mr President, what Mr Onkelinx says is true: the content of the motion is already somewhat out of date. Nevertheless, I would like to take the floor because I do not wish to leave any doubt as to our position on the matter. I have noted today, Mr President, that there is a great deal of doubt about your functioning and some of the things you do and have done. I do not deny that, despite the good agreements we made at the Conference of Presidents, we still have those doubts, especially when I read today that you have carried out that famous assignment with an excellent Mechels company, while you were still active in public service broadcasting. That has little to do with our functioning here, but it does say something about your deontology or rather your lack of it. I would like to propose two points along the lines of Mr Onkelinx. Firstly, let us agree very clearly that your role is priority number one of the working group, with which we will start. That working group will indeed be open to everyone, including Mr Hedebouw. He still doubted that and I can reassure him in that regard. Secondly, we discussed the issue at the Conference of Presidents, where you said a few things. The other fellow Members were not there. I invite you to use this debate to say something about it in public. In fact, you can take responsibility for yourself. The Rules of Procedure, the legislative framework, allow you to decide for yourself to include the deontological committee in this matter. We can decide on this together in plenum; we can decide on this in the working group and we can proceed immediately, which is also my suggestion. However, as President-in-Office of the Council on this issue, you could also take the deontological committee on this issue today. After all the doubts that have arisen, that seems to me to be a good thing. The legislation allows that. We will have no debate here today, nor in the working group, but this will be discussed immediately. After the new elements that have emerged today, where there is clearly a conflict of interest, that seems to me to be the only step you can take today. The legislation in this area is very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u110	We are keeping track of what this is about, namely the question of changing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u111	Mr President, I would like to join in the previous remarks. We were able to reach an agreement without too much problem yesterday in the Conference of Presidents. This agreement is aimed at the early establishment of the working group referred to. This group will then be able to deal quickly with a series of proposals related to good governance. We've even determined a guideline. Of course, in the minds of all the parties, whether they belong to the majority or to the opposition, there is no question of commissioning this work in the negative sense. On the contrary, there is a question of producing results quickly. We will have to agree on a number of issues by 30 June. That is where our objective must be, and in this direction our energy must be mobilized. There's an Interior Commission already on Tuesday next at 10:00. I think we can expect its chairman and its members to set up this working group next week, which will be able to devote itself very quickly to its task.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u112	Mr Calvo, I have one thing to tell you. What you just said is wrong. I can't catch the deontological committee. It can take itself up or answer a question supported by 50 Members. Those are the only two options. What you're proposing is impossible. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we look at whether there is sufficient support for the change in the agenda. Mr Hedebouw, I have submitted the agenda change and the motion. I do not know if there is any need for further clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u113	Mr President, I still wish to convince colleagues. Two approaches seem to me to be important. I am pleased that we can be part of this future-oriented working group to see how general rules can be applied in order to avoid these problems of conflict of interest. We will see if this work is successful at the end of June. I think that this motion is just as much as the opinion of the Ethics Commission. In this motion, we propose to investigate whether problems have arisen in the past. It has appeared that some colleagues have, for example, mandates within multinationals active in telecommunications. Could this have caused problems in the past in the performance of their duties? There are two complementary approaches and I do not want to exclude one from the other. I am pleased with our inclusion in the working group, but I would like to convince my colleagues that there is an interest in looking back, in the interests of transparency. I was not present in the discussion of the group leaders, but I am well aware of the consensus that has emerged for the future. I feel a willingness today, in the leadership of at least fifty colleagues, to also want to look back. A problem actually arises when a Speaker of the House is active at Telenet. I hear my friends from Groen and my socialist friends and I think we can reach fifty signatures to look back. Was there a conflict of interest? Has there been any conflict of interest, including in the past, over the past two years? Both approaches are complementary and I would like to support both.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u114	Mr President, I hear Mr Hedebouw's request. I know what he wants as a return to the past. I know how far he wants us to investigate. He talked about multinationals. One might wonder whether there were ever people in our parliamentary assemblies who were close to certain foreign parties or, in any case, to certain foreign influences and who may have been under the influence of communist countries, for example. It existed, too. I say stop this kind of general inquisition. First, there must be no rule for everyone to be aware of their personal responsibilities in carrying out their mandates. [[Applause]] I am one of those who think that we obviously cannot regulate everything with the obsession of the permanent inquisition. No! Everyone knows, a fortiori when one has the honour of sitting in this assembly, what his duties as agent are. It's a matter of personal conscience. The rest, we have it or we don't have it! Mr Hedebouw, don't be too quick to give lessons! Having said that, I would like to thank those who have been willing to involve all political trends in this working group. Indeed, it is a work that cannot be done by excluding anyone. But I dare hope that we can go to the essentials without getting lost in the settlement of personal accounts. In any case, as far as I am concerned, I do not intend to participate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u115	I propose that we sit and stand down and see who supports the question of changing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u116	Mr Calvo, is this an everlasting debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u117	I had all kinds of quinces in mind, but I'll leave them for what they are. I admire your urge to moderate the debate tightly today. However, I would like to draw your attention to two points, Mr President. Firstly, the legislation on the deontological committee allows any public mandater to apply for an opinion. If you have any doubts about that, I'd like to get you that piece of legislation in a moment. You can do that. Others have recently shown you this. Secondly, Rule 163a of our Rules of Procedure also allows us to reach the deontological committee. You are apparently not convinced today that this would be a good démarche and could contribute to some serenity and clarity in the debate. I would like to invite you to answer that question for yourself by next week, when we will consider the start-up of the working group. If you answer that question with no, Mr President-in-Office, then I think that the doubts surrounding your profile and your functioning will only increase and there will be many losers in this hemisphere, not just you, but all of us, because you are not just a Member of Parliament for yourself, but for the whole assembly. I would therefore like to invite you to think again about this question and to give the right answer immediately, perhaps faster than other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u118	Thank you for the tip, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u119	I'm going to go along with Mr Calvo. I will read to you section 4 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, which states in its §1er: "The Commission's task is to deliver opinions at the request of a public representative on a particular matter of ethics, ethics or conflict of interest concerning him". As the PTB's proposal has been rejected, at least, as Mr Calvo's proposal demands, you, Mr President, should refer the matter to the committee. This is possible thanks to Article 4, §1. That seems to me to be what the law says.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u120	We will not continue the discussion. I have other indications about the regulations that can be applied in this regard. There is a difference between general advice and a specific question of deontology. If we want to talk about what a President can and cannot do, it is of course a general opinion, because otherwise it cannot be used, because it is confidential. It can therefore only be done at the request of the committee itself or of 50 members. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we decide on the debate and move on to the next item.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u121	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Annemie Turtelboom, Tim Vandenput, Peter Luykx, Rita Bellens, Peter De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u122	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2080/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2080/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u123	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u124	Mr President, over the last few months we have all witnessed the events in Turkey, on which perhaps we all have a strong opinion. The coup attempt in July 2016 drew global attention to Turkey, to the extent that this was not yet the case. The views which we in this House should take on this matter should be related to the responsibilities that we as Members of Parliament must assume. When it comes to Turkey, our links with that country are also clearly demonstrated with the European Union and the impact on our own policies and our own situation is direct. The attitude of the N-VA Group in this regard has always been consistent. As far as we are concerned, Turkey is a country which for a number of reasons does not belong to the European Union. Firstly, it does not meet the conditions to be met and, moreover, there is little or no progress, there is even a decline in a number of essential points. Secondly, there is the demonstrable and identifiable lack of public support for such an operation. Thirdly, it is our view that a truly European project is not served by infinite spatial expansion. There is no doubt that this would hinder the deepening which is still necessary on a number of points. In the past, a number of positions have been taken on this issue and a number of decisions have been taken, such as pre-accession aid. It was intended to improve human rights, to stimulate democratic development, to develop a legal system, and so on. If this aid was extended for that purpose, it is quite logical that, when we see that there is not only no progress in these areas but even a sharp decline in a number of areas, we should review that aid. That is an important part of this resolution. We are aware of the potential impact of this resolution, but it is quite clear that taking no position in this matter actually means closing our eyes and that, through this accession aid, we are de facto actively encouraging and approving the negative developments in Turkey. This resolution therefore contains four questions. Firstly, the cessation of pre-acquisition aid. Secondly, this is in line with the resolution adopted in the European Parliament on this subject, a reorientation of the resources allocated to it to independent Turkish civil society. Thirdly, the request to freeze the accession negotiations to the EU. Finally, a clear red line, because if the death penalty is to be re-implemented, we are calling for the immediate and definitive cessation of the accession talks. This resolution is a step in the direction of the European Parliament. We hope that other European Member States will follow us in this. We will give our full support to this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u125	Mr President, let us look back to 15 July 2016, when there was a complete chaos in Turkey. Part of the army then attempted to remove President Erdogan and restore constitutional order, democracy and human rights. The result was 265 dead and more than 1 400 injured. Erdogan seized the failed coup to clean up with dissidents. 43 000 people were arrested and 23 500 arrested. For the time being, more than 100 000 people have been made redundant in the public and private sectors. Among them 4 500 soldiers, 2 400 academics and 40,000 teachers. Four billion in real estate was simply confiscated, 170 media channels were closed, 25 municipal authorities were taken over, 138 MPs were deprived of their immunity. While I list these figures, they are undoubtedly already obsolete because it is very difficult to keep track of everything. It is therefore bad with fundamental human rights and rights of freedom in Turkey. We are still reaching weekly reports of further deterioration of the rule of law and democracy. Last week, 4 500 officials were fired for their suspected involvement in last year's coup attempt. For several years, a process has been under way in which political parties and free media have less and less room to criticise President Erdogan's ruling AKP party. We must watch Turkey evolve into an unliberal democracy, with elections being held, but civil liberties being violated and any opposition being opposed by the ruling party. All this leads to an erosion of the legislative power, an erosion of the judiciary and an erosion of independent journalism. The European Commission was also not easy in a recent progress report on the accession negotiations with Turkey. I'm giving an anthology. There are very serious concerns about the compliance of Turkish legislation with European standards on the rule of law and democratic principles. It also points to the reduction of immunity and arrests of MPs, violations of human rights by Turkish troops in Kurdistan, repression of civil society organisations and human rights groups and undermining the independence of the judiciary. Gender violence and violence against minorities are far too little punished. A recent bill, which would allow rapists to marry their victims in order to avoid their punishment, is an absolutely distinctive and, above all, very disgusting example of this. The freedom of the media and of expression are under considerable pressure. Arresting journalists and closing media channels are causing serious problems. These are all quotes from the European Commission's report. However, the Commission remains far too cautious in its approach. It is time for Europe to send a clear signal to Turkey. We do not tolerate the fact that one of our neighbours is being led to the abyss by an aspiring dictator. We cannot bear in mind that the democratic steps in Turkey over the past few decades are being rapidly reversed, not if it depends on us. The only possible option to suspend accession negotiations is to remove the funds that Europe gives Turkey to promote democracy, the so-called pre-accession aid. The resources available should be used to support Turkish civil society and NGOs. Only in this way can we really promote democracy and respect for human rights. The European Parliament has now taken this view and adopted a resolution by a large majority on 24 November. In concrete terms, we are asking for a halt to pre-accession aid. Stop the act that Erdogan's Turkey will one day become a member of the European Union. Stop the financial support to the Erdogan regime. Instead, support Turkish civil society and NGOs that promote real democracy. We ask the government, from the committee and hopefully from this plenary session, to take this position fully with us at European level. Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their cooperation on this resolution. It was unanimously adopted in committee, and I believe that this sends a very strong signal to Turkey. Above all, we are also making it very clear what our position in this dossier should be at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u126	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you, as I do every time I speak in this House about Turkey, that it is a friendly State and that the historical, geopolitical, economic, social and human ties that unite us are, as we know, essential. Whatever we say or do, Turkey is and will remain geographically a country close to us. It's obvious. And it is precisely because we are friends and we are neighbours that we cannot accept, under any circumstances, the violations of the rule of law which take place there, as the hearings which we have just had in committee have again attested. I am thinking, of course, of the massive arrests of political opponents, officials, journalists, politicians, novelists, intellectuals, academics... The list is still long. I am also thinking of the prohibitions of gay pride, the demonstrations of the opposition, repressed, or the desire to restore, as soon as possible, the death penalty; all this, while in parallel, the all-powerful President Erdogan validated the constitutional revision strengthening his powers and that a popular consultation is planned on 16 April. Will there be further demonstrations of force and intimidation in this regard? This is my fear! As a member of the Council of Europe, I will never repeat enough, it is not enough to be elected to do what we want with the rule of law and the European Charter of Human Rights. I myself, some time ago, held the same speech on several European states, themselves also members of the Council of Europe, as Turkey has been since 13 April 1950. Unfortunately, in another context, initiatives aimed at Poland, for example, have not been able to win the support of our Assembly. Turkey and its candidacy for membership of the European Union are still being discussed, but Turkey's actual membership of the European Charter of Human Rights is never discussed. I therefore expect our diplomacy and our Foreign Minister to also take concrete initiatives within the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. I now turn to the motion for a resolution before us today, which my group has supported in the Committee on External Relations. This is based on three very clear main demands which are in line with the proposals adopted by the Socialist MEPs in the same debate in the European Parliament. We want the government to plead at European level that some of the funds thus released should be used to support Turkish civil society and non-governmental organisations through the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights; that it advocates within the Council of the European Union that accession negotiations between the European Union and Turkey should be temporarily frozen; that it advocates at European level that accession negotiations between the European Union and Turkey should be halted automatically in the event of a re-establishment of the death penalty by Turkey. As I said, if strong diplomatic measures are required in the framework of the European accession procedure within the Council of Europe, we must be careful to leave the door open, hoping to see quickly and definitively a de-escalation of the autocratic delirium of the Erdogan regime. It is also imperative that we pay attention to the fact that this strong attitude does not have even more negative consequences and isolation on the peaceful and democratic opposition or on civil society and the Turks themselves. Let us remember that Mr Erdogan – and I suppose it's his great damn – does not represent 100% of Turkish public opinion! Let us not isolate further the progressive and democratic forces of this beautiful country! I would also like to point out that we are in solidarity with Turkey in its fight against terrorism and Daesh and that we condemn all acts of barbarism on its soil, of which a Belgian was the victim a short time ago. Similarly, my group most strongly condemned at the time the military coup as it occurred in Turkey, where civilians lost their lives and where parliament was bombed. Political change cannot come from force by force and by flouting the rule of law. These facts cannot be used as an alibi. The rule of law and democracy are not being negotiated, as are the rights of the opposition and minorities. Of course, it is intolerable for some to try by force to attack the institutions of a country, but it is up to the independent justice system to do its job to try putschists or terrorists and not Mr Erdogan. It is intolerable to see the use of State structures to carry out a major cleansing and to undermine fundamental rights and democracy. What further analysis would be possible when dealing with such facts? How can we admit that it is possible to arrest nearly 20,000 people, a few hours after this failed coup, including judges, officials, teachers and journalists? Would that even be possible? How could such a purge be admitted to be compatible with the rule of law? It's unbelievable! Should we pretend not to see anything when the President of a Member State of Europe and NATO openly pleads for the restoration of the death penalty? The answer to these questions is clearly no. This resolution indicates this and draws a thick red line. I'm afraid Mr Erdogan already has a foot on that red line. I hope that it will reverse rather than cross it by turning an unacceptable military coup into a dangerous and often liberticide political coup. I will conclude by recalling that, of course, and that is the essential thing, our States are strongly linked. It is not because we are partners that the rule of law or European values are being negotiated. The European Charter of Human Rights and the European Treaties are not vulgar paper rags. Of course, this must apply to all the Member States of the joint project. We have been trying to build this project, for almost 70 years, with all the difficulties we are experiencing, but it is equally clear that these rules apply to those who claim to want to enter our project. It's either take it or leave it. We will be inflexible in this respect and it is therefore with strength that all the members of my group will support this text and call on our Government to finally step out of its reserve, including in the European Council. It's really time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u127	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, like my colleagues, I would also like to speak to this motion for a resolution, which has received a unanimous vote in the Committee on External Relations. It's rare enough to stress it. I would like to say how unanimous we are about the decisions we wish to take today with regard to Turkey. Actually, not quite! The latest events, the coup d'état of 15 July, have led us to believe that the first of the Copenhagen criteria, namely the presence of stable institutions, the guarantee of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, respect for and protection of minorities, has since been severely violated. Through this unanimous motion for a resolution, we call for Belgium to plead within the Council that the enlargement process should be halted, as long as Turkey again complies with the three criteria mentioned above. How, Mr President, can we describe the current political situation in Turkey? Compared to the early 2000s, this country, governed by the AKP, made a turning point at 180 °. From the opening of negotiations for accession to the European Union, the implementation of many reforms, strong economic growth and the establishment of an open democracy on Islam, we have moved to a country that, according to all the wise observers, is moving away from the secular ideological bases of Atatürk to pursue a more conservative, neo-Ottoman policy, leading to a tightening of the regime. In absolute terms, this turning point is worrying, because Europe needs a stable perimeter and neighbourhood in the Mediterranean, just as, it should be recalled, on its eastern flank. In the case of Turkey, a candidate for membership of the European Union, the red light is on today. The internal situation has deteriorated sharply since last summer. Politically, the failed coup d'état on 15 July caused nearly 250 deaths and more than 2,000 injuries. This coup attempt was presented as an act of Fethullah Gülen's brotherhood, formerly close to the AKP, without any clarity being given to its sponsors. We are witnessing a worrying deterioration of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, with massive and destabilizing purges. Over 120,000 civil servants were laid off, approximately 40,000 persons were arrested, 45 per cent of officers were dismissed, one quarter of magistrates were dismissed and over 500 private companies were placed under guardianship. It should be pointed out that these purges affect not only the authors of the missed putsch, but also Gülenist sympathizers, supporters of the Kurdish cause and opponents of the regime. They strike more and more professional circles. No one knows when the government's forward flight will stop. This poses a problem, as the removal of such large numbers of civil servants mechanically weakens the state apparatus. HDP journalists and MPs were arrested. The Turkish officers stationed at NATO no longer want to go home. The Council of Europe has issued regular criticisms of these purges carried out outside any legal framework. President Erdogan has launched a crackdown of such magnitude that it has submerged both the alleged perpetrators, but not legally proven or condemned, but also any critical voice (journalists, professors, intellectuals). While the coup had been denounced in bloc by the entire political opposition, this moment of national unity broke out, as a result of the will of the incumbent power to launch a witch-hunt against all discordant opinions within the entire state apparatus. Political violence has resumed exponentially. Since the summer of 2015, attacks have increased. They were claimed by the Islamic State, the PKK, the TAK, the DHKP. The resumption of hostilities by the PKK in July 2015 caused massive destruction in several cities in the south-east and the displacement of the population. Institutionally, after the elections of June and November 2015, which allowed the AKP to retain its absolute majority, President Erdogan wants to impose a new Constitution with a presidential regime. Its adoption by Parliament on 21 January 2016 will be completed by a referendum in April. In addition to questions about respect for the separation of powers, this new legal framework would allow the president to be re-elected again, until 2029. We are therefore faced with an institutional reform which in particular restricts the expensive counter-powers in Montesquieu within a presidential system and which risks aggravating the authoritarian and personalized nature of the exercise of power in Turkey, all in the context of a referendum campaign conducted under an emergency state system. Economically, the country is in recession. The Turkish pound has lost a third of its value and foreign investment is shrinking in the face of so much legal uncertainty. It is, moreover, a crucial point of the future referendum that could be diverted from its object and become a sanction vote against the country's economic decline. Foreign policy, too, raises a number of questions, given the erratic nature of the security prism. The Kurdish issue in Turkey, Iraq and Syria remains central, alongside the fight against the establishment of a Shiite axis in the Iran-supported region, an obsession that has in the past prevented Turkey from playing its role against the Islamic State. Turkey is now at the forefront of the fight against the Islamic State, as evidenced by its military engagement in Syria. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, in view of this fact, we believe, from all political groups, that we need a pause in the accession negotiations and thus give Turkey time to come together and clarify a number of political issues and international positions. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone will have their personal views on the very principle of Turkey's accession to the European Union, but we can all agree that Turkey remains an essential partner of Europeans such as Ukraine and Russia, whose simple geography makes us eternally close. We need the Turkish authorities to prevent the movement of Daesh fighters to Europe. Our police and intelligence services must work hand in hand. The Turks play a key role in the negotiations on Syria's future. Since 18 March, we have had an agreement on immigration, which, if not perfect, delivers the results we expect. I note that the modernisation of the European Union-Turkey customs union towards agriculture, services and public procurement is presented as a promising path for this year. Nevertheless, we must maintain a frank and open dialogue with Ankara, bearing in mind our values which are the defence of democracy, freedom of expression, freedom of the media, the rule of law, impartial and transparent justice, the importance of counter-powers, international treaties that prohibit the death penalty, a step that Turkey has not yet taken, but which, in the eyes of the reformist movement that I represent in this House, is an act of rejection. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution we are voting for today is an important signal. It is an important signal because, in spite of the importance of Turkey as a partner of our country, the European Union and within NATO, we indicate that we do not agree with several worrying signals, that the rule of law is increasingly under pressure, that freedom of the press is being reduced and that human rights and freedom of expression are being violated. No, the coup d'état of 15 July was not the answer to address these worrying signals, because democratically elected institutions should not be targeted by a coup d'état. It is therefore logical that this coup d'état was strongly condemned, both by our country and by the European Union. Since this coup, however, we have seen a further erosion of the rule of law and the suppression of human rights. The state of emergency was invoked in the country and under that guise was very repressive, not only against the coupants, but also against broad civil society such as journalists, human rights activists and academics. The legislative framework was also made even more restrictive, mainly making the judiciary constantly dependent on the executive. The checks and balances were further reduced. Clear messages have already been sent to Turkey within the European Union. On the one hand, there is the annual progress report that has seen this decline since 2013. It also confirmed this in a publication in November 2016, i.e. after the coup d'état, clearly indicating that there was an acceleration in those concerns regarding the rule of law and human rights. On the other hand, the European Parliament, as some Members have already referred to it, adopted a resolution on 24 November. Our fellow Members in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have also approved them. It takes a clear stand on the temporary cessation of Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union if no further efforts are made to reduce the rule of law and human rights. This Parliament must also give such a signal, and with this resolution we are sending this signal. The resolution contains three important elements. Firstly, the temporary freeze of negotiations. As the situation is today, we cannot continue the accession talks with Turkey. In order to become a member of the European Union, we must take our values to heart and strive for them. That is not the case today. A second important element is the death penalty. That is a clear red line for us. If the death penalty is applied again, Turkey clearly admits that it does not want to become a member of the European Union. Thirdly, there must be a reorientation of the resources currently allocated to pre-accession aid. They now need to be redirected to civil society in Turkey in order to further strengthen it, now that it is under pressure. It is important that the European Union pays attention to civil society and supports its critical voices. Ladies and gentlemen, our policy towards Turkey is at a crossroads. That is because Turkey itself is at a crossroads. With this resolution, we want to send a signal to Turkey that, in order to become part of the European Union, it must also share the values of our European Union. That is why our group will vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u129	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is surprising that in the discussion that has just taken place, no one has mentioned the agreement of 18 March 2016 between the European Union and Turkey on migrants. This agreement is essential and we have discussed it at length here. It entered into force on 4 April 2016 and specifically provided for a resumption of the accession process in exchange for the transfer of Syrian asylum seekers from Greece to Turkey, against the €3 billion granted to NGOs for their reception in that country. Today, 2.8 million Syrians are already in camps in Turkey, in dire humanitarian and social conditions. As Mr. From Roover, Mrs Turtelboom and Mrs Jadin, Turkey is not respecting the fundamental principles of human rights, such as the Geneva Convention which provides for the reception of refugees and that each asylum-seeker can benefit from an individual assessment of his or her journey and journey. What fly snatched this government for entering into such an agreement with, as you said, a state that does not respect freedom of the press, freedom of association, the rights of women or homosexuals? A state, as Mrs Jadin said, which is waging a war against the Kurds in the east and which, until its agreement with the Bashar al-Assad regime, has played a disturbing, if not disturbing, role in the emergence and strengthening of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. We knew all this before the conclusion of the Leonin agreement of 18 March 2016 between the European Union and Turkey. This agreement has made us Europeans dependent on and hostage to an authoritarian political regime, that of Mr Erdogan whom you are denouncing today. This political agreement, which no one has spoken of, aimed to ensure that Europeans do not welcome an impressive mass of Syrian migrants on European soil. Today, the majority is visibly remorseful, at last! Today, at last, the majority is breaking a leonin agreement. But get ready because, as soon as the agreement is broken, Erdogan will open the gates and return to the European borders those refugees who have been sent back from Greece to Turkey. You are completely dependent on this autocrat, the Greens are always said, both at Belgian and European level. Madame Jadin, wir schaffen das! On the substance, i.e. Turkey's possible accession to the European Union, the Greens believe that the Turkish people have a future in the European Union, like any State that meets the Copenhagen criteria. But today, the Turkey of Tayyip Recep Erdogan does not respect, far from it, the Copenhagen criteria. As long as Turkey is headed by a despot and therefore an authoritarian regime, Turkey will not enter the European Union! We will vote in favour of this resolution because we believe that this is the best way to support Turkish Democrats in Turkey. However, we remind the majority parties that they signed this immoral agreement of March 2015 and stabbed the same Turkish Democrats in the back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u130	Mr President, many substantive arguments have already been made by colleagues. I join these arguments, which today justify the freezing of the negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union. It does seem to us that by eliminating democracy and the rule of law in Turkey, President Erdogan has long turned his back on the European project and its values. I'm not going to go back to all the elements. My intervention was rather an inquiry into the Minister of Foreign Affairs, since this resolution is supported by the vast majority of our colleagues. I would have liked to know what concrete initiatives he was going to take in order to implement it. In particular, there is the first point in the operative part of the resolution which calls for the effective adoption of the subside for justice and human rights reforms in Turkey. It's obviously totally wasted money today. These are considerable sums, since in 2016 alone it was a sum of EUR 250 million that was totally unnecessarily spent on the Turkish authorities in an attempt to restore or strengthen the rule of law. The least we can say is that it's a burning failure. I think it's time to close this faucet. In total, for the period 2014-2020, more than €4.4 billion is foreseen for human rights reforms in Turkey. When can this gabegie stop? The second element of our resolution calls for at least some of this money to be spent on civil society. We know that there are obviously democrats in Turkey, many people who want freedoms to be preserved. How can we help freedom-loving Turks? How can Europe ensure that this country does not fall completely under the guise of the current regime and that there are still NGOs, associations, civil society and the media that can defend fundamental freedoms there? Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my questions are as follows. What is the current state of discussion at European level, since the European Parliament has voted on a resolution similar to ours? What will be the timetable for the freezing of Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union? That is the essence of what I wanted to say and the questions I wanted to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to the authors of this motion for a resolution that our group will approve it, as it did in committee. The simple reason for this is that the erosion of democracy and the rule of law in Turkey is particularly problematic. In the circumstances, there can be absolutely no question of that country's accession to the European Union. I would add, however, that the authors are rather late in proposing this position. I'm declaring myself. Last year we witnessed that the Belgian Government supported the reopening of a number of negotiating chapters for Turkey's accession to the European Union. At that time, we said in plenary session, during Question Time, that this was not a good idea because the signals were already so serious at the time that our group could no longer really be talking about Turkey's accession to the European Union. Moreover, on 24 November last year, the European Parliament adopted a similar resolution. This resolution is valuable and we will approve it, but in fact it is somewhat behind the facts. Indeed, in the meantime, this position has already become bon ton in Europe, in the European Parliament. It is the consensus that has been emerging for a number of months. In this respect, I would like to ask all parties to consider the adoption of resolutions in the Foreign Affairs Committee, which go a little further, which stimulate a little bit, which also effectively encourage the government to pursue a foreign policy which is not being pursued today, and which goes a little further than the European consensus. I do not need to tell you that within the European Union there is very often a status quo, business as usual, a piece of paralysis too. We are no longer able to achieve a strong foreign policy because of a lack of consensus within the European Union. Certainly in these circumstances, it is up to the Belgian Parliament to take a step forward, to go beyond the European consensus and to encourage our Belgian Government to do the same. With regard to Turkey itself, I would like to say that the country remains, of course, an important interlocutor because of its geostrategic position. I believe that we have waited too long to give the signal to Turkey that there can be no accession in these circumstances. We have kept them on the leash for months and years. This has also caused a great deal of frustration on the Turkish side. We must avoid this in the future. With those countries, which clearly do not respect the Copenhagen criteria, we need to be able to develop other partnerships, in all clarity, without leading each other on and without imagining things that cannot be realised. Our hearts must also lie with the Turkish people. The Turkish people are the victims of the erosion of democracy and the rule of law in Turkey. I believe that we have every interest in maintaining good links, good contacts, with the Turkish people and with Turkish civil society. Especially with those organisations that are committed to democracy and human rights. I believe that we must send a clear signal to Turkey, but we must not abandon the Turkish people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u132	Mr President, I have listened carefully to what my fellow Members have said. I didn't know if there was anything else I could add. And so I shall confine myself to saying, on behalf of my group, that I support everything that my fellow Members have said. As in committee, we shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u133	Mr President, I too have listened very carefully to my fellow Members. I fully agree with them, but unlike Mr Van der Maelen, I have a lot to add. The Flemish Interest has submitted a similar proposal for a resolution since 1999, and every legislature again. Each time, you have consistently defended the accession negotiations with Turkey. The motion for a resolution we have tabled goes far beyond the proposal before us today. After all, we are not in favour of a temporary freeze on the accession negotiations with Turkey, but of a definitive halt to them. I'll also motivate you why. I will do that with the words of Karim Van Overmeire. In November 2004, a book was published by my fellow party vice-president Philip Claeys, a very reading book, entitled Turkey in the European Union, a bridge too far. When that book was officially presented, Karim Van Overmeire pointed out that the debate on Turkish accession is likely to centre around whether Turkey meets the Copenhagen criteria, such as stable democratic institutions, respect for human rights, a functioning market economy, the adoption of European laws and regulations, and so on. That is exactly what you are discussing here today, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to quote: "But, of course, the European Union is not open to any country that meets those criteria, because then Japan, Canada and South Korea may as well join. Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union clearly states that EU membership is reserved for European countries. Turkey's accession has certainly not only to do with the Copenhagen criteria, but above all with the demand for our identity. We have consistently opposed that without public support we should be saddled with a new Member State, which is not even geographically located at 97% in Europe, which has never historically belonged to European civilisation, unless it is a cruel occupying force, which does not meet any criteria, which is also Islamic, and of which 80 million people are free to flood our continent. I am still of the opinion of 2004: Turkey does not belong in the European Union. Karim Van Overmeire may have changed his mind by the strength of change, because his current party has no problem with Turkish accession if those Copenhagen criteria are met. Today, with this motion for a resolution, you are calling for a temporary freeze on the accession negotiations and not for a definitive halt to the accession negotiations, which should never have been started. You are absolutely right, ladies and gentlemen, on everything you have explained today and in the explanatory statement of your motion for a resolution. At last you have come to that understanding. It is quite logical that the budget for pre-accession aid to Turkey should be cancelled. That should have happened a long time ago. Mr Minister, perhaps in all transparency, of which everyone has suddenly been in favour this week, you can say that it is not, Mr President? In the context of the accession negotiations, how many millions of euros have already flowed to Turkey in recent years. Citizens are looking forward to it. Minister, the resolution is coming very late. I have interviewed you and your predecessors many times about the harrowing situations in Turkey. I have told you about the Turkish Kurds, who are victims of large-scale government violence, and about Erdogan's statements, that women are not equal to men. In his view, women differ so much that they cannot be placed at the level of men at all. I have questioned you about the disarray of a demonstration of women's rights in Istanbul and about all the other protests that are being brutally crushed. I questioned you about the fact that newspaper editors are being transformed into press rooms for the regime. Remember how the newspaper office of the opposition newspaper Zaman was stormed with tear gas and water guns. I questioned you about the legal prosecution of critical journalists in Turkey. Nowhere in the world are so many journalists and people in prison for their opinions as in Turkey. I have questioned you about the censorship and blocking of websites of social media and so on, as well as about all other types of restriction of free speech. All the above-mentioned cases have only led to a kind of permanent state of concern. That was the only answer I received from the current government, namely that it shared our concern. However, no appropriate conclusion was drawn. All the things I have just listed did not stop the government from concluding a blackmail deal with Erdogan last year. By the way, he is still prominent on the list of members in the Leopold Order. He was awarded by you in 2015, but that aside. Last year, this government approved the principle of granting Turkey more than EUR 3 billion from the European Union and the abolition of the visa requirement for the Turks, in exchange for an agreement to deal with the asylum crisis. You also agreed with the principle of revitalising and even accelerating the negotiations. At the time, you did not see any bones in an agreement that would speed up Turkish accession. In an official Turkish-Belgian statement following a visit by you, Mr Reynders, and by Jambon, Francken and None to Turkey, there was even a welcome of the new momentum in Turkey's accession process to the European Union. You are always a slave to the European Union. I have the impression that it is a kind of sacred cow for you, a religion that should not be questioned and on which no criticism should be made, because you will then end up at some sort of virtual pyre. It is only now, when the ticket has been issued in the European Union, that you dare to come up with a resolution yourself. The issues I have just listed, and even the fact that President Erdogan openly violates human rights and is cleaning up all aspects of democratic society and is replacing it with a totalitarian Islam state, have never caused this government to intervene, not once in recent years. However, there were sufficient grounds and incidents. Just like the conclusions of the European Commission on each annual progress report, in practice, a decline report, your conclusion was also wrong. The wrong conclusion was always drawn. The answer I received from you every time on behalf of the government, Minister, was that Turkey needs more European commitment to help it become a modern European state. That's the world upside down. I am pleased that you have finally come to your senses, that there has already been a bit of a progressive understanding that this was indeed not the right conclusion. It is a pity, however, that a large-scale clean-up operation by Sultan Erdogan was needed first, after last summer's failed coup. That was the ideal reason for Erdogan to rapidly expand and complete the purification he has been carrying out in the army and in the Justice Department for many years. His blacklist was ready. I'm not going to repeat the number of victims. Mr Turtelboom has already listed everything. Ladies and gentlemen, your progress has not gone far enough. The temporary freezing of these accession negotiations is not the solution. Please consider it wider than merely applying the Copenhagen criteria. North Korea on the Bosphorus, this Turkey, belongs neither historically nor geographically nor culturally in the European Union. Not today, not tomorrow, never! If you share that view, you must support our amendments. We extend the explanatory statement with these arguments and in your four questions we replace the temporary freeze with a definitive halt. If you really mean it with what you have just said, if you really mean what you said, Mr Turtelboom, namely that Turkey cannot belong to the European Union, then you can only support this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u134	Mr President, for all the reasons already put forward by my colleagues and which justify the European Union showing greater determination towards the drifts of the Erdogan regime, which does not depart from democratic criteria and standards, as required by our process of accession of a country to the European Union, but which gradually moves towards an authoritarian regime, it is indeed necessary to show a new will. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is true that by this resolution you are the dominici of our parliamentary assembly to convince European bodies and, in particular, the European Foreign Council, to make commitments to force Turkey to hear the voice of Europe if it is to continue the process of negotiations with the European Union. I do not know if you will consider this an obligation of result, when you are asked to plead on four specific points, but I dare hope that, not only will you work on it – knowing you, I know what your pugnacity may be – but you will also find with your European colleagues more than listening attentively, a capacity to, finally, bring their views on this issue together. This capacity has sometimes been lacking. As other speakers have pointed out, Turkey's willingness to resolve the migration of political refugee candidates or migrants from certain countries in northern Africa or the Mediterranean basin has enabled Turkey to establish a balance of power with the European Union which is not to the advantage of the Union. It was not her honour to have concluded, under such conditions, the agreement concerning the taking over by Turkey of certain candidates for political refugees or for immigration. As our former Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt had said very well in his time, the keys to European borders were handed over to Sultan Erdogan. It is true that this is a vast subject, but what is being asked of you is certainly not to go so far as to denounce the agreements reached, but to make it clearer to Turkey, together with the European Union, that its claim to move closer to Europe cannot be pursued if there is not simply respect for all the international conventions and all our European treaties on the protection of human rights, of the minorities particularly flouted in Turkey, of the principle of equality between men and women particularly threatened under the Erdogan regime and also of freedom of expression and the press which, more than ever before, is the subject of outrageous intimidation by this regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB will abstain on this motion for a resolution and I will briefly explain why. First of all, on the very question of accession or not, we are not for the current European Union. We are in favour of European integration, but at least not that. Nor are we in favour of strengthening it through Turkey's accession, because neither the workers in Turkey nor the workers in Belgium nor the workers in the other European countries, in general, have anything to gain from the enlargement and strengthening of this area of competition to all crins, hypercapitalism and austerity. This has nothing to do with the Turks specifically, but we are contesting the very nature of the current European Union and therefore, of course, any discussion of the enlargement of the Union regardless of the meaning in which it is expressed. On the very situation in Turkey, I have once again had the opportunity to come back to the Committee on External Relations in recent parliamentary hearings of the HDP, of which members have come to Belgium to talk to us. The situation is indeed very worrying and very serious. Turkish journalist Can Dündar, from the newspaper Cumhuriyet, spoke of "the greatest witch hunt in Turkish history". He and his colleague were sentenced to life imprisonment for espionage, membership of a terrorist organization and dissemination of State secrets, because they had denounced in May 2015 the fact that Turkish intelligence trucks were delivering weapons to Syrian rebels, photos and videos in support. While acts are taking place that resemble real purges in education, the judiciary, the press, the Peace Movement, etc., the future referendum on constitutional reforms aims to further centralize power in Erdogan's hands. And we have not yet said anything about the foreign policy of the Turkish state, which has invaded Syria and Iraq, which has supported all kinds of radical armed groups, etc. Our position on Turkey is clear, but we do not support this resolution today. Apart from the aspect mentioned on the nature of the European Union, we do not support it for another reason: because it avoids fundamental questions and is fundamentally hypocritical. Indeed, this resolution ignores two fundamental agreements that our governments have concluded with Turkey, which they continue to support. These are two fundamental themes for the well-being of the Turkish, European and Belgian populations. Firstly, I am referring to military cooperation between the European States and Turkey, particularly within the NATO framework. It can be said that Western and Turkish interference in Syria has facilitated the emergence of a series of radical and terrorist groups. The same terrorist threat is now used to attack the rule of law in Turkey, but also in the European Union, as a detailed Amnesty International report published on 17 January. The report refers to disproportionate measures and the deterioration of the rule of law in the countries of the European Union. Questioning military cooperation with Turkey and interference in Syria could therefore have a positive impact on the security of the Turkish, Syrian and European populations. It is incomprehensible that this motion for a resolution does not even envisage this option and prefers to punish the Turkish population, while ignoring the suffering of the Syrian people, including the Kurds. Secondly, this motion for a resolution stalemates the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on refugees, which has offered three billion a year to ensure that the former does not have to comply with the Geneva Convention. Apparently, this cooperation does not pose a problem to the authors of this proposal. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that we also want to distance ourselves from all those who, by means of this kind of text, intend to feed an identity and Islamophobic agenda and whose motivations are to surf the anti-refugee and anti-Muslim climate instead of sticking to democratic considerations. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u136	Mr. President, after hearing Mr. Van Hees, I would like to reply to him and to make it clear that through this motion for a resolution, our ambition and our will are to preserve the European project, the European construction – everything we believe in as a vector of the values we share. I would also like to say to Mr. Van Hees is still a little inflated! This way of rereading Europe's history with the glasses that are his is surprising. You have opposed a kind of rich Europe that does nothing to its workers, its inhabitants, etc., to the one you are advocating. Mr Van Hees, I would like to remind you that the Europe you are defending through a kind of PTBisto-communisto-je-ne-sais-what has already existed. It was called Eastern Europe and was under the absolute control of the Soviet. While there was this wall between the Europe of freedoms and the Europe that you call of your wishes, we have never seen a Western European citizen trying to cross the wall to go on the other side. It was the opposite, Mr. Van Hees! All Europeans have fled the system you are trying to defend and sell to citizens! We still have to respect history a little bit. Europe has liberal ideas. She's a social democrat. It meets the needs of citizens. We all have an interest in trying to defend this project. On March 13, 2017, in a few days, dear friends, Mr. Van Hees, that the Communist police of Mr. Van Hees has killed one of the great thinkers of Europe, of the Europe we are working on today. I mean the Czech philosopher Jan Patocka. That's who you killed! This is what your project is about: a populist and dangerous project!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u137	Mr President, I want to thank Mr Miller because when he attacks me, I always feel reassured and I think I'm on the right track. We're talking about killing some people. In this assembly, in this House of Representatives, there was a communist representative named Julien Lahaut who was murdered for his ideas, because he was defending the workers. Who's responsible for this murder? An investigation has been conducted recently. Mr. Miller, you choose your victims! But I wanted to remind you of this case. A book's out. I invite you to read it. It describes the thorough investigation that was carried out. Minister Laruelle had tried to block this investigation by not releasing the funds. I recognize your party's action in relation to historical truth. Fortunately, the funds were finally released and this investigation was conducted. We discover that the Belgian establishment of the time – notably the Société Générale, Brufina, the Prime Minister of the Pholyen period, the judicial police – was involved in the assassination of Julien Lahaut. You choose one victim, I choose another! As far as the nature of this European Union is concerned, I do not hope to convince you, Mr Miller. For me, the European Union is the European Union of multinationals, of social dumping, of ultraliberalism, which is harmful to all workers in all countries. Finally, I am surprised at this position which exists in relation to Turkey in the European Union. On the other hand, Turkey in NATO, it does not bother you at all! And all the abuses that Turkey can carry out, especially in support of terrorism, do not bother you! And we continue to be Turkey's ally within NATO. It's hypocrisy, Mr. Miller!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u138	There was this assassination of Julien Lahaut, it is a historical element that I do not reject. I'm not going to deny the historical truth. I think you should also not deny the historical reality of the project you are carrying. You have just quoted a book and an investigation, but I recommend that you read the two huge volumes that have just been published on the history of the crimes of communism. These are thousands of pages of the project that you pass as the project leader. That's what I blame you for. I am not only blaming you for this, but I am blaming you for not addressing the substantive issues of the project that you are carrying. You popularize it, you make it incredible! Mr Van Hees, I suggest that you stay there, but when you accuse me of ignoring the whole historical truth, I can tell you that every time you speak, you have a way to erase millions of murders, decimated populations, population transfers, crushed cultures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u139	Mr President, I was wondering to what extent it would not be appropriate to refer the matter to the Ethics Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u140	Mr Nollet, if 50 members so request, we can consider it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the reaction of the Turkish regime after the last events in summer 2016 and the latest decisions on the political structure consisting of a strengthening of the power of President Erdogan alone, in view of the treatment accorded to the population, the military, civil servants, the police, by the abolition of fundamental rights, up to the deprivation of liberty, the People's Party will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, especially since all funding must be stopped quickly, whether for the pre-accession process or otherwise, because the European Union is currently engaged in financing the establishment of a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u142	Mr President, I just want to make a few comments because the debate has been a long one in committee. It was also interesting in plenary. And we have had a lot of discussions about Turkey at other times, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or in the plenary. First of all, I would like to reiterate that on the day of the coup in July 2016, we immediately condemned the situation, not only Belgium, but the whole of the European Union. At the same time, we have asked the Turkish authorities to react proportionally. Unfortunately, immediately after the coup d'état, we found that there were many arrests and other decisions taken without any kind of proportionality with regard to the various perpetrators of the coup. I would also like to re-establish our relations with Turkey. Some have mentioned this in the NATO framework: we are allies in NATO. It's a data. But there is also the debate on migration. Indeed, the debate on migration and the agreement of 18 March 2016 began much earlier, with more than one million refugees arriving in the European Union in 2015. Some will remember the images of three-year-old Aylan Kurdi, who died on Bodrum beach. At that time, I heard requests on all the benches for this to stop, so that there would be no more deaths in the Mediterranean between Turkey and Greece, so that there could be a concrete reaction on this subject. The agreement reached – which can be discussed as far as possible – in March 2016, well before July and the events that followed, has in any case made sure that there are no more deaths in the Mediterranean between Turkey and Greece today, that there is indeed a follow-up of EU investment to improve the reception of refugees, because the amounts referred to are used for investments in schools, hospitals, for the reception of refugees. The same reasoning applies to our fight against terrorist attacks, not just here but in many other places and also in Turkey. We must continue to work properly with Turkey. We're trying to do the same. We have had a number of trilateral meetings, not only with Foreign Affairs but also with Home Affairs and Justice, to have concrete contact with Turkey, to exchange information. I have heard many questions here in the hemisphere as to whether it is possible to have closer contacts with Turkey, a more precise exchange of information, for example with regard to the expulsion of foreign fighters to Belgium and Europe. Without contact with Turkey, it is impossible to do so. We will therefore continue to do so, as far as NATO is concerned, as regards migration, as regards the fight against terrorism, not only here but also in Turkey. Mr Blanchart, we have already mentioned this on several occasions, we have spoken at the Council of Europe. There is no need to ask us to do so. Since last fall, the request has been made clearly. I have even expressed this to the Turkish Minister for European Affairs. His Government must commit - and has done - to disseminating information to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. I expect the Council to play its role and, on the basis of the information provided to it or not, to organise follow-up by the Council. I assume that not only the Committee of Ministers, but also the parliamentarians who sit on the Council, will be attentive to this development. The process was repeated and supported. In addition, Turkey has undertaken to respect the investigative procedures currently under way in the Council of Europe. And then, as far as the motion for a resolution is concerned, I would like to be very clear. I would like to thank Parliament for moving in this direction. I will start with the end, point four, that is, the red line. She was called back last fall. I have done so, as have the European authorities. It is obvious that any re-establishment of the death penalty in Turkey simply prevents us from imagining in any way a discussion of future accession. This is an essential condition for participation in the European debate: capital punishment is not included or re-incorporated in its legislation. In this respect, I reassure Mr Maingain: not only will I plead for this, but it is already a unanimous line within the European Union. As far as the other aspects of the resolution are concerned, I would like to inform you that this debate took place last year. In November, the Commission issued a report on Turkey, which showed very clearly the deterioration of the rule of law, the significant restriction of freedoms and the weakening of democracy in the country. Together with several of my counterparts, I have requested that the debate be taken to the Council. It happened. A debate took place in the Foreign Affairs Council, but above all, since this is where the debate is taking place in the General Affairs Council, I can tell you that the Presidency's conclusions, which we supported, clearly indicate that it is a matter of reducing the funds allocated today under the pre-accession aid instrument. It's a first thing. In addition, there is a question of reorienting them towards civil society and thus supporting the actors of democracy and the rule of law in Turkey. The unfortunate thing about these concrete demands that we have made with others is that there has been no consensus in the General Affairs Council and that there is no consensus in Europe to go in this direction. The Slovak Presidency, and I congratulate it, has nevertheless agreed to take up these conclusions as conclusions of the Presidency. I repeat, we support them and will continue to do so. We will continue to support the freezing of a number of funds, but we will also redirect funds to other activities in Turkey to support civil society, to actors who are supporting the development of the rule of law, and more precisely, it is not now possible to say so, democracy in Turkey. However, it is clear that this is what we are asking for. This was also requested at European level, but no unanimity was achieved, as I have already said, in order to move in that direction. It is perhaps also up to politicians in their European groups to try to move in the same direction. At the General Affairs Council, I found that there was a very large majority not to support these proposals. As regards the freezing of negotiations, this is the same approach. The gel, it's there, actually. No more chapters have been opened and it has been recalled in these conclusions that there would be no chapter to open in the current situation and for a long period of time, in view of the situation in Turkey. But it is clear that there will be a need for greater support within the European Union if we are to move to the more advanced stage of clearly announcing this decision to freeze the negotiations. They are in fact, but they are not yet legal. Mr President, I thank Parliament for moving in this direction. It is clear that as far as the elements of the resolution are concerned, the death penalty component is already a unanimous decision of the European Union. There is no question of continuing or resuming discussions if Turkey were to imagine reintroducing the death penalty into its legislation. On the other points, we have a number of countries, including the Slovak Presidency, which have agreed to reduce and reorient pre-accession assistance funds, but there is still no consensus in this direction. We will continue to plead in an attempt to reach this consensus. I ask all the groups to make the same plea to their European groups. There are many other governments in Europe, with different majorities, which do not support the same approach as the groups in this hemisphere. Mr President, I thank all those who support this proposal. I will not answer questions very far from Turkey's problem. We may have an opportunity to hold symposia on these subjects at other times.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u143	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u144	17.. Barbara Pas (2080/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u145	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u146	The Conference of Presidents of 15 February 2017 proposes to the Chamber of Representatives to extend the mandate of members of the Optima parliamentary committee of inquiry until 30 June 2017. The Conference of Presidents on 15 February 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the term of office of the members of the Optima Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry until 30 June 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u147	During the plenary session of 8 December 2016, it was announced that the Chamber of Representatives should proceed with the appointment of the President of the Dutch Chamber of Auditors. During the plenary meeting on 8 December 2016, it was announced that the House of Representatives should proceed with the appointment of the President of the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors. Ms Hilde François's candidacy was announced at the plenary session of 12 January 2017. Hilde François' candidacy was announced during the plenary session on January 12, 2017. Since there is only one candidate, Mrs Hilde François can be declared elected under Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Ms. Hilde François elected pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 December 2016, a call for candidates for the post of Councilor (N) will be published in the Belgian Official Journal as a result of this appointment. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 December 2016, a call for candidates for the post of Counsellor (N) – vacant as a result of this appointment – will be published in the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u148	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; these proposals shall be forwarded to the appropriate committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 February 2017, I also propose the proposal for a resolution (Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Wouter De Vriendt et al.) on the conduct of an investigation to establish the facts and to recognise the involvement of the various Belgian institutions in the colonisation of Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, No. 2307/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u149	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 February 2017, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (MM. Benoit Hellings and Wouter De Vriendt et al.) concerning the work of memory to be carried out with a view to establishing the facts in order to allow the recognition of the involvement of the various Belgian institutions in the colonization of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, No. 2307/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u150	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u151	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the fact that all the Members have returned to the sitting to tell you that I have obviously lived the most painful week of my life and that, in these difficult moments, it has been a great comfort for me to obtain the expressions of support, sympathy and friendship of a whole series of colleagues, all sides. I would like to tell you that apart from the masks and postures that we can adopt in our occupations, I felt that, behind the masks and postures, there were men and women who have a heart, who have a true humanism and it does good. In the face of all the evil that can be said of women and politicians and of all the caricatures that we are treated with, I would like to say that we sometimes forget that we are women and men, mothers and fathers and that, when we suffer a tragedy, as we have suffered in my family, it is good to be able to count on friends. I wanted to thank everyone for the support you gave me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u152	This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 8 February 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 8 February 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 154/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Annemie Turtelboom and Mrs Els Van Hoof and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Mr Peter Luykx and Mr Richard Miller. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 154/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Annemie Turtelboom and Els Van Hoof and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx and Richard Miller. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u153	Mr President, I have interviewed the Minister about the massacre directed mainly, but not exclusively, against the African Farmers' Community. They are robbed, in which men, women, both adults and children, babies and elders are tortured by murder squads in the most horrific way before they are killed. These horrific crimes not only affect the victims' neighbors, but also cause a domino effect. If the managers disappear, this will also lead to unemployment and distress for many workers and their families. I will save you the figures of the rising number of victims, but I would like to give you a figure. The overall average murder rate in South Africa is 31 out of 100 000. For farmers, this is at present 313 out of 100 000. Interpol's remark that farming in South Africa is the most dangerous profession in the world speaks volumes. Over the last ten years, the number of farmers there has fallen by as much as two thirds. Agriculture remains a very important aspect, so I asked the Minister to address this in all international fora in the European Union, but also in the South African Government itself. With this motion of recommendation I would like to urge him to do so, because he did not seem to have much enthusiasm for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u154	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 87 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u155	The interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 8 February 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 8 February 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 197/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Heeren. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 197/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Heeren. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u156	Mr President, I have learned from answers from many ministers that the Minister for Pensions and the Minister for Social Affairs has a number of services where almost no staff member has the required bilinguality certificate. When I asked about this, a very creative solution was devised by suddenly changing the status of these services so that there is no longer a need for a bilingual certificate and an advice from the VCT. I have interviewed the Minister for Language Law, Jan Jambon, about this. As always, he shared my concern. He hadn't even read the advice and so he showed, as always, the passivity of a rabbit for a light box when it came to doing something about it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my motion of recommendation is to encourage at least the Minister responsible for language legislation to apply the existing legislation. Applying existing legislation should not fall within the scope of the Community's standstill. So I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u157	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 87 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u158	Vote on Amendment No 16 by Barbara Beware of the recitals. (2080/5) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Barbara Pas in the recitals. (2080/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 5 Yes No. 136 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u159	Vote on Amendment No 17 from Barbara Pass at point 3. (2080/5) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Barbara Pas on point 3. (2080/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u160	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2080/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2080/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-16-54-plenair-ip158x.u162	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 23 February 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 23 February 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 23 February 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 February 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
