ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u1	Madam President, having a little family concern, I have to leave at 4:20 p.m. So I probably won't have the opportunity to ask all my questions. If the minister so wishes, those who cannot be asked can be turned into written questions because if they are postponed, it may lead us late in the year. Do the best! If you allow me, minister, I will also ask my questions more concisely than they were sent to you in writing. In a study published on July 10 by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), American and Mexican university researchers evoke the threat of biological annihilation, after analysing the evolution of populations of more than 27,000 species of terrestrial vertebrates. According to them, this extinction would be the result of habitat degradation as a result of agriculture, forestry, urbanization, mining, pollution and climate change. According to the study's findings, we would only have two to three decades to act by using technologies that are less destructive to the environment, by regulating trade in endangered species, or by helping developing countries maintain natural habitats and protect their biodiversity. Madam Minister, you have certainly read this study. Therefore, I would have liked to have your views on this. Do you agree with the conclusion that if we do not act, the survival of biodiversity would be at risk? Can concrete measures be taken at your level to counter this emerging mass extinction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. It joins one of my major concerns and allows me to highlight the work that has been done within the framework of the competences that have been conferred on me with regard to the protection and sustainable use of biodiversity and the many ecosystem services that it offers to us. On April 21, I launched the BeBiodiversity strategy announced during Belgium's twenty-year participation in the Convention on Biological Diversity in 2016. I believe that the situation is serious and that this theme needs to be raised to the same level as concerns about climate change. The main thrust of this strategy is co-responsibility between citizens, administrations and businesses. We all have our part to play. The strategy I am talking about includes a three-year communication campaign that runs until the end of the legislature and aims to raise awareness, educate and, I hope, mobilize society as a whole. It also aims to support the development and subsequent use of decision-making tools that businesses need to take action. One of these tools, co-financed by the Regions, will enable any company to identify its biodiversity actions taking into account its specific context. Another tool is to provide buyers of organic raw materials with a tool to assess the biodiversity impacts of their procurement policy. In addition to these targeted actions, I also strengthened the inspection team. Previously, it included two individuals solely responsible for ensuring compliance with the CITES Convention on Trade in Endangered Species. I made it a species inspection team, with seven to nine people. It will monitor the implementation not only of CITES but also of the legislation on invasive alien species and sustainable wood legislation. In addition, together with Ministers De Block and Ducrame, we have put more than EUR 1 million on the table to make progress on protecting the essential service of pollination (ecosystem service). I would also like to draw your attention to the recent launch of the call for projects under the LIFE Belgian Nature Integrated Project (BNIP), which is being carried out in collaboration with the Regions. A total of EUR 100 000 is available for new projects aimed in particular at the restoration of European habitats and/or the protection of European species as mentioned in the European Habitats and Birds Directives. I also financially support the African Elephant Fund and Virunga National Park. It is essential to help work on the causes of extirpation of species in countries which do not have the European acquis communautaire. Belgium also has clear international messages on the importance of the protection of cetaceans for the marine ecosystem as well as for the marine protected areas in Antarctica and in the implementation of the commitments of the Convention on Biological Diversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u3	Madam Minister, I thank you for the elements of response that I share and support, in the direction necessary to maintain this biodiversity at risk. I thank you for all the actions taken in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u4	Madam President, Minister, as you know, your colleague, Alexander De Croo, presented to the UN the Path to Sustainable Development report, which is intended to report on the initiatives taken to meet our country's commitments under the Sustainable Development Goals. However, many voices have stood singularly in the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (CFDD) in order to denounce the hypocrisy of this report, which would present a "too happy situation and lack nuance, self-criticism and vision". In order to support this, it is recalled that, since October 2015, the federal sustainable development plan has been expected or that last year, the Office of the Plan had assessed that, out of the 13 United Nations quantifiable indicators, 8 were changing unfavorably. For example, several observers believe that the submission of this report would primarily support Belgium's candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council for 2019-2020. Minister, how do you respond to these criticisms from CFDD members? Can you tell us what place civil society organisations have been given in the preparation of this report? How did the consultations take place? How long did these organizations have to make their comments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u5	My colleague, your question helps to clarify the elements of a controversy that was not appropriate. I met with the people who could have made this kind of criticism and we developed things to clarify the context in which we work together. I am pleased that the press is relaying news about the federal sustainable development policy. As much as I consider it important that all points of view can be taken into account, I feel that, at times, both sides need to be heard in order to have comprehensive information – something that had not been done. This was what we tried to do in the preparation of Belgium's voluntary national report on 18 July 2017 at the UN High-Level Political Forum. To answer your questions, I will return first to the process of preparing the report before addressing its content. In order to clarify Belgium's reasons, I would like to make it clear that if Belgium has submitted this report, it is on the basis of a request from the Interministerial Conference on Sustainable Development in which all the governments of this Kingdom are represented. Indeed, the Interministerial Conference unanimously wanted to present this report in order to show Belgium's proactive attitude towards the implementation of the new 2030 sustainable development programme, adopted in September 2015 by the UN General Assembly. Belgium has a long tradition of international involvement in sustainable development and we therefore had to be among the first countries to present this report in the second year of submission of these voluntary reports. I would remind you that there is no obligation and that this is therefore a voluntary approach. This request of the Interdepartmental Conference was then considered and accepted by the multilateral coordination Sustainable Development of October 14, 2016, which is composed of political representatives from all entities, which is chaired by Foreign Affairs and attended by a representative of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. You see, therefore, that it is a very complicated country, but in the end, it means that those who have denounced the report's overly positive and un nuanced nature have been present at all stages of its preparation. In addition, this report is a voluntary approach. So I think it's a bit special. The process set up was as inclusive as possible in order to gather as much information as possible with a view to ensuring the widest possible completeness and involvement within the deadlines – very short, given the number of public authorities and people involved! An inter-federal political task force, chaired by the Prime Minister, was set up to coordinate the process with representatives of each entity, as well as a drafting committee, located in Foreign Affairs, assisted by focal points in the various administrations, in order to collect input from experts. A precise planning has been defined and communicated to civil society, over the market, so that it can prepare its contribution. The political task force also requested specific contributions from the Inter-Federal Institute of Statistics, to draw up an annex with indicators and a contribution to the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, to integrate civil society initiatives into the report. The aim was to identify innovative projects, contributing to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that could be included in the report. In late January, a letter was sent to the CFDD requesting a response of five to ten pages by mid-March. It's been almost two months. Given the responses received, the deadline was extended to the end of March. The administrations finalized a first draft report in mid-April. The political task force asked the Federal Council for Sustainable Development to consult with the other consultative bodies of the federated entities in order to deliver a joint opinion on this draft text. The General Assembly of the CFDD approved this opinion on 30 May, which allowed it to be taken into account in the subsequent political discussions and allowed its adoption on 15 June and its communication to the United Nations. On 20 June, a round table was held with the Federal Council for Sustainable Development to address the concerns expressed in the opinion. As you can see with me, the process has been conducted beating drum, all the more so given the number of stakeholders. The CFDD was informed of the entire process, participated in several of the key steps in this process, and the schedule has been met since the October 2016 decision. The CFDD was able to contribute proactively, both at the beginning of the process and after, by providing an opinion on the draft report. In this context, we have made every effort to take into account as many contributions as possible from both government and civil society. With regard to the content of the report, I do not agree with the view that it would lack nuances and self-criticism, and I have made this very clear to the CFDD officials. I invite you to go through our report and those of other countries, to report on the content of the exercise, but I suppose you have already done so. Indeed, both the Belgian report and the presentation made in New York by my colleague Alexander De Croo were appreciated precisely because they offered a nuanced view of the current situation and not a concert of good news. The introductory analysis for each DGS is balanced. This concern not to hide the challenges was present throughout the drafting process. However, the nature of the exercise should not be misunderstood. This is indeed an official Belgian report presenting to the public present in New York the current situation of Belgium. It is not an internal report that scientifically analyses the strengths and weaknesses of this situation. Some of the criticisms contained in the opinion of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development reflect a projection of the expectations of civil society regarding implementation in Belgium. This is the responsibility of each of us, and in particular, of myself. In this regard, I would like to add two concrete points. On the one hand, we commissioned a study assessing the distance between the current situation and the SDGs to be reached in 2030. It will be presented at a conference open to all on 19 October at the Beaux-Arts and will allow us to identify possible short-term actions. On the other hand, in consultation with our colleagues from the federated entities, we are organizing on 22 November in Tour and Taxis an event concerning the implementation of the national sustainable development strategy and the SDGs. This event will provide an opportunity to discuss, among other things, the elements contained in the CFDD's opinion on the voluntary national report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u6	Of which act. If everything is true – of which I have no doubt – we can use this classic and lapidary formula: the incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, last August Belgium became the 54th member country of the Coalition for Climate and Clean Air (CCAP). By becoming a partner country of the Coalition, Belgium thus ensures participation in the High Level Assembly and reaffirms its commitment to implementing ambitious and effective climate and air quality policies. Minister, what practical implications and benefits will membership of this structure have for our country? Given the institutional structure of the country, it appears that intra-Belgian coordination will be ensured through a thematic subgroup of the Committee for the Coordination of International Environmental Policy (CCPIE). How will this subgroup be composed? What will his skills be?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u8	Madam President, dear colleague, the Clean Air and Climate Coalition is a global initiative created in 2012 under the leadership of Hillary Clinton and the secretariat of which is provided by the United Nations Environment Programme. This Coalition focuses on short-lived pollutants in the atmosphere but with high global warming potential and a negative effect on air quality. Examples include methane, black carbon (soot) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFC gases). The Coalition is a dynamic and flexible forum for information exchange where partnerships between countries and/or other actors can emerge to address common issues. The solutions proposed are often political and at very limited costs. In the current context, where US leadership on climate issues is extremely low, the Coalition is an important lever for climate action. Its work is structured around eleven initiatives: seven in a single sector (diesel, oil, gas, waste bricks, HFCs, domestic energy and agriculture), four of which are more cross-cutting (support for national action plans on short-lived climate pollutants, funding, regional assessments and health). In its letter of accession and after consultation with the greenhouse effect coordination group, Belgium expressed a specific interest in sharing its experiences and expertise with stakeholders and in benefiting from the experiences and approaches applied by other members, in particular with regard to HFCs, black carbon, diesel, finance, agriculture and transport. Since the themes covered by this Coalition concern climate and air quality or, more generally, the environment, coordination will be established within the International Environmental Policy Coordination Committee. A thematic sub-group will then be established and will coordinate with the other existing sub-groups the aspects that concern them. The objective is to have at least one expert from each of the relevant federal and regional entities in this group for the topics discussed within the Coalition. An official from the Climate Change Department of the FPS Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment has been appointed as a focal point for the Climate and Clean Air Coalition. Its role is to be the contact point for the Coalition, to coordinate the declarations for the High Level Assembly, to send the information to the relevant PACIE sub-group in order to enable each Region and/or the federal authority to involve relevant experts in the Coalition working groups if it so wishes. In addition to coordination on content, this subgroup will also decide on Belgium's representation during meetings at the technical level of the Coalition for Climate and Clean Air. Indeed, given that the technical meetings are thematic, it seems appropriate to decide on an ad hoc basis on the (or experts) who will represent our country according to the areas concerned. With regard to our country's participation in the High-level Assembly, as is the case with other Belgian representations to an international organization, the federal authority will ensure the representation of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u9	Madam Minister, I thank you very much for the comprehensiveness of your response, which encourages us to be present at the international level, hoping that this sub-group will be able to function in the most appropriate and optimal way possible. Allow me, Madam President, to thank my colleagues, Messrs. Nollet and Flahaux, for their patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u10	Questions Nos 20787 and 20788 by Mr Senesael are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u11	Madam President, I propose to turn my question No 20991 into a written question. Therefore, if my colleague, Mr Nollet, allows me to put my two questions quickly, it would allow me to be present in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u12	With pleasure!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u13	Minister, the European NGO Transport & Environment (T&E) has recently carried out a study which shows that "over the life cycle, diesel cars emit 3.65 tonnes of CO2 more than their gasoline equivalents". To achieve this result, T&E takes into account the vehicle's traffic emissions, life span, engine manufacturing and biofuel content. A diesel vehicle would thus emit an average total of 42.65 tonnes of CO2 compared to 39 tonnes for a petrol vehicle. This calls into question the ideas received and questions. Minister, with your knowledge of this new study and what analysis do you make of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u14	I thank you, Mr President, for your questions, which allow me to take stock of this situation. Thanks to the work of the Dieselgate Commission, we know that the situation caused by this important misleading omission, Mr Nollet, has consequences for unjoicing human life. When we see that the figure of 10 000 premature deaths in Europe and of the order of 1,200 premature deaths in Belgium a year are the figures advanced in relation to air pollution, we are entitled to be very concerned. According to the LRA study which compares the expected thresholds to the actual assumed emissions, just under half of these excess mortalitys could have been avoided. Diesel, which was presented as a less emitting solution in the 2000s, is now more emissive than expected due to the drifts observed on the test benches. All this is damaging and, alas, confirmed. Consultation with the European authorities on this subject has been ongoing since the start of this scandal. On the one hand, we plead for coordinated solutions at European level to address the problem of fraudulent software and, on the other hand, we plead that, beyond the new WLTP standards, consideration should be given to further strengthening the emission requirements for both pollutants and CO2. Real-time testing is a first step, the effect of which must be checked in terms of air quality and, if necessary, a further reinforcement of the requirements, a kind of Euro 7 standard but in real-life conditions. As far as agrodiesel is concerned, it has never been referred to, in the head of the Belgian authorities, as a less polluting alternative. Agrofuels are the only fact that they are less greenhouse gas emitters on a life-cycle basis and are only a transitional solution pending an alternative to combustion-engined vehicles. To this end, I can only welcome the resolution adopted by the Walloon Parliament on this issue, which has the merit of giving a clear line of action in this area. In my view, the challenge of transition to more sustainable modes of mobility is just as important in terms of scale and as crucial from a climate point of view in the transition to a low-carbon society as the transition to electricity generation. Finally, with regard to the trial in complacency of the authorities, if that is the case, I would like to point out, not without malice, that in Belgium, only the latest generation hybrid or electric vehicles will soon be produced. It's a little wink!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for your full answer, which, as usual, is never without humour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u16	Madam President, Madam Minister, by the end of the year the European Commission will publish its strategy on plastics. It met to discuss this strategy with the main players in the sector on 26 September. Everyone can see the impact of plastic waste on the oceans, many gyres have been discovered, as many new continents of plastic waste being formed. The very first United Nations conference on the ocean has just alerted us to the seriousness of the situation. The problem is multiple. Many impacts on our health are detected. Plastic waste is so invasive that it even finds itself at our tables, going from the plankton food chain to the fish that are fished for human consumption. Plastic is even detected in human blood. These materials never decompose, they accumulate toxins and are often produced with additives themselves toxic. Minister, what position will Belgium hold within the EU on its strategy on plastics? Plastic is everywhere in our daily lives. It is even used for our parliamentary badges. However, some individual choices can alleviate the environmental bill through more responsible behaviour. What decisions have been made about this with your counterparts in the federated entities? Germany has made a long time ago the choice of packing plastic bottles, cans, which contributes to better consumer behaviour. As a farmer's son, I can tell you that when a cow "bouffe" a can, it's not sad! What are the brakes or possible blockages to the application of such a measure in us? Could we consider it anywhere in Europe? The Belgian chemical industry is at the forefront of our economy. What are the decisions taken with this important sector in the context of waste reduction and recycling?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u17	Mr President, Belgium's position has been defined in consultation with the Regions. Our country will defend an ambitious strategy. Above all, it is important that it analyses the impact of plastic on its entire life cycle and intervenes where initiatives can lead to maximum positive impacts. A considerable amount of plastic waste could already be avoided by re-designing or manufacturing products to improve their recyclability. This theme was at the heart of our discussions earlier. As you know, plastic is ubiquitous in our daily lives. One of my priorities is to support the development of a more circular economy. This requires a good knowledge of decontamination techniques or the development of a framework to identify the quantity and quality of recycled plastics. My administration is working on it. It is also essential to remove the products that are most harmful to the environment. This is the subject of the sectoral agreement which I am refining with cosmetics companies and which aims at phasing out the use of microplastics in cosmetics and toothpastes. For the Regions, we can refer, among other things, to the ban on the use of plastic bags in Wallonia and Brussels. As far as cans are concerned, I must also reply to you that it is up to the Regions to make a decision. However, the federal government is participating in a joint working group that is examining whether or not setting up a set-aside system can be beneficial and how it could be applied. Could we consider it anywhere in Europe? This obviously follows the logic that I have just developed. I would like to recall the division of powers in Belgium: in this case it is a regional prerogative. As for the chemical industry, this sector is undergoing transformation. After a long focus on fossil fuels, it is now turning to the use of renewable resources and recycling. The classical chemical industry not only increasingly practices classical, mechanical recycling, but also has the know-how to launch the first pilot projects in the field of chemical recycling.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would also like to thank Mr Nollet for his great kindness. Madam President, you who are participating in the Conference of Presidents, do you not think that it would be wise to use glass bottles - and not plastic bottles - in Parliament from now on?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u19	It is not the Conference of Presidents, but the management body that is in charge of these matters - and in which I do not have a representative as a Ecolo. On the other hand, you have one of the members of your group participating.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u20	Yes, it's Mrs. Schepmans. I will suggest that, but you can also relay this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u21	With great pleasure!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u22	I also hope that the minister, who has a somewhat coordinating role in the federal government in this area, will suggest that the orders of the federal government be part of the same spirit. It is often through symbolic gestures, by which one sets an example, that one can change attitudes. Thank you, anyway, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u23	Minister, the seventh convention of the parties to the Espoo Convention took place in Minsk from 13 to 16 June. One of the issues under discussion was whether the extension of the life of nuclear power plants should be determined by the obligations of the Convention and therefore by the requirement for an environmental impact assessment and prior public consultation. Minister, by whom was Belgium represented at this meeting? What was Belgium's position on this at this meeting? What are the arguments behind this position? What decision was ultimately taken at the level of the Convention of the Parties? What are the follow-up plans? There is a question of setting up a working group. Do you confirm that? If so, what is the exact scope of its mission and schedule of work? Does Belgium intend to participate actively in this working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u24	Madam President, Mr Nollet, the seventh session of the Meeting of the Parties to the Espoo Convention, the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context, was held in Minsk, Belarus, from 13 to 16 June 2017. The European Union took the floor on behalf of all the Member States, on the basis of the common position taken in the mandate it received from the Member States. This position had obviously been discussed in advance in the relevant committees of the European Council. Belgium was represented by a representative of DG Energy, who, like other representatives of the European Union, was limited to an observer role during this meeting of the Parties. Discussions, sometimes tense, focused on the cases of the Astraviets nuclear power plants in Belarus and Hinkley Point in the United Kingdom, on which a draft decision on compliance was on the agenda. The parties could not reach a consensus on these nuclear issues contained in the draft decision on compliance with the Convention. The parties therefore decided to organise an exceptional meeting in Geneva at the end of 2018 or at the beginning of 2019 to deal with these cases. In addition, an advanced version of the 2017-2020 work programme is available online on the meeting of the Parties website. It was decided to request a preparatory group to define, by May 2018, the terms of reference of a future working group to define possible guidance on the application of the Convention with regard to decisions on extending the operational life of nuclear power plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am a little surprised by some elements, in particular the fact that Belgium would have had a simple observer position at this meeting. I will confront your answer with the elements that come to me elsewhere and I will eventually come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, the often well-informed newspaper Le Soir of 9 September told us that for the second year in a row, greenhouse gas emissions in Belgium have increased. Do you confirm this? Can you give us all the most recent figures on this subject, both globally and by sector? What steps did you take with your colleagues in the federal government before these figures leaked into the press to inform them of the disaster of such figures and the absolute need to reorient the shooting? What additional measures has the federal government taken since it was in possession of these figures? What measures are you going to propose yourself? How do you react when Jean-Pascal van Ypersele, former IPCC Vice-President, states "that it is high time that Belgium had an ambitious plan to reduce its emissions to zero as foreseen by the Paris Agreement"? What is the status of this plan in its realization?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u27	Madam President, honourable Member, first of all, I should like to inform you that the figures to which you refer concerning the evolution of our greenhouse gas emissions, which the newspaper Le Soir echoed in its 9 September edition, are the official statistics communicated by Belgium to the European Commission as part of a mandatory reporting. These data are prepared in the context of the National Climate Commission (NCC) which validates them before notification to the European authorities. Upon their approval by the CNC, these data are available to the public via the CNC website and also on the federal government website www.climat.be, on which you will also find a commentary and graphs illustrating the trends in emissions. There is therefore no question here of leaks in the press but of information which is perfectly accessible in the public domain. According to these statistics, greenhouse gas emissions in our country actually increased in 2015 and 2016. This increase comes after a decade of steady decline in our emissions. This trend reversal is therefore worrying, but it calls for several nuances. The evolution of total emissions actually covers very contrasting trends between sectors. Thus, emissions from virtually all sectors declined significantly between 1990 and 2015, leading to a 19.4 per cent decrease in total emissions over this period, with the notable exception of transport emissions, which at the same time increased by 28.2 per cent. Moreover, the projections indicate that, at the same time, this increase in transport emissions would continue, which must of course prompt us to take ambitious measures in this sector. We have already had the opportunity to talk about this on several occasions. On the other hand, there is considerable inter-annual variability in national emissions due, inter alia, to emissions associated with heating buildings that are highly sensitive to climate factors. The conditions for 2014 were particularly lenient, which explains an exceptionally low level of emissions that year. It is not surprising, therefore, that emissions are then rising again in more normal years from a climatological point of view. Finally, data for 2016 are provisional data, an approximation that indicates a trend largely based on data from the previous year, which partly explains that the 2016 approximation follows the 2015 trend. Final data for 2016 will not be available until January 2018. It is therefore now premature to draw definitive conclusions on this apparent upward trend in our emissions. We'll check in 2018 – I'll give it to you – whether it was apparent or real. However, vigilance is needed and it is important that, in the medium and long term, our greenhouse gas emissions continue to decrease in order to achieve our greenhouse gas targets. From this point of view, the first milestone is 2020, with an emission reduction target of 15% compared to 2005 for the share of emissions not covered by the European Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). The latest available official projections indicate that this objective would be achieved unchanged, given the flexibility provided for in the European Decision setting these objectives (Effort Sharing Decision). In any event, this situation is still worrying, especially since, after 2020, new, more ambitious targets are waiting for us. According to the proposed Effort Sharing Regulation for the period 2021-2030, Belgium will be allocated a target of 35% reduction of its non-ETS emissions compared to 2005. It is therefore clear that additional efforts will need to be made to reach these new levels. To this end, the Government has already adapted a set of new policies and measures to fulfil this commitment within the framework of the agreement on the sharing of the Belgian Climate/Energy objectives. The agreement provides that the federal government will implement new policies and measures to reduce emissions by 7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent for the period 2016-2020. These new measures which have been presented to the CNC concern in particular the field of product and transport policy. They will have to be extended for the post-2020 period, for which Belgium must draw up an integrated National Energy/Climate Plan. Work is being developed at the level of a federal and regional expert group. The results of the national debate on the carbon price expected for next summer will be an important element in this 2030 vision. In the long term, in line with our commitments under the Paris Agreement, our goal is to achieve a low-carbon society. To do so, we must create the framework and put in place the necessary measures. I will plead for the energy pact and the PNEC 2021-2030 to be fully in line with this perspective. In this sense, the 2030 targets are an important step. The measures to be defined in order to achieve these objectives will have to be sufficiently ambitious and in line with the prospect of the decarbonisation of our economy. I would add, however, that last June, I found that all the Regions were very ambitious, which I welcome, since they all indicated that they want to achieve an effort of 35% by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u28	Thank you, Madam Minister. I think that the figures you confirm, even if they are still provisional, but above all the figures of trend in relation to the transport you have given must question all your colleagues, especially the Minister of Transport beyond you who are Minister of the Environment and also in charge of the Coordination on Sustainable Development. They should not wait for the plans that are still under construction to make you take a series of rather drastic reorientation measures in view of the increase of 28.2%. I did not understand whether that figure covered 2016 or not. What is the exact period covered?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u29	This is the period between 1990 and 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u30	I think that there is already enough to sound the alarm and above all to take action, even if the figures still need to be refined on the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u31	Minister, the global climate finance target is $100 billion annually by 2020. There are 26 countries, including Belgium, that are expected to contribute to this global goal defined within the framework of the United Nations. As part of the intra-Belgian burden sharing, the Regions and the federal government have committed to contributing only €50 million annually to international climate finance by 2020. Belgium's commitment is too low and not in line with the commitments currently made at international level, both in terms of the amount of the contribution and in terms of the growth of commitments (provided for in the Climate Agreements). In the burden sharing agreement, it is also expected that the Belgian commitment to climate finance will be evaluated in 2017. Minister, what is the significance of this evaluation? What is the objective? When and how will it be done? Will the evaluation take place within the National Climate Commission? Has Wallonia, which currently chairs the National Climate Commission, already made a proposal? If so, which and what was the position of the federal government? If not, what actions are you planning to put this evaluation on the agenda? Do you intend to play a proactive role in the coming months to conduct this evaluation? As part of an increasing international commitment and climate financing needs around the world, is the federal government willing to increase the federal contribution as part of this assessment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u32	Mr President, as you know, on 4 December 2015, an important political agreement was reached between the climate ministers on the allocation of the Belgian climate and energy objectives for the period 2013-2020. The text formalizing this agreement also contains a system of annual monitoring and verification of compliance with commitments and obligations, including international climate finance. In this regard, the aim is to verify that each entity has contributed well to the financial and technical support provided for in the international climate negotiations, in line with the commitments set out in the agreement. The first report on the implementation of the cooperation agreement will therefore contain a section on climate finance. It is currently being finalized and is expected to be approved shortly by the National Climate Commission. However, let me make it clear that the Belgian report to the European Commission, which is based on the same figures, has been online for some time now on the website of the European Commission and the website of the National Climate Commission. You will find the information you are looking for for 2016. International texts provide for an increase in international climate finance from year to year until 2025. At this stage, our country has committed to providing EUR 50 million per year until 2020. As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, I have been keen to make my colleague in charge of Development Cooperation, Minister De Croo, aware of the importance of integrating the fight against climate change, and in particular adaptation, more systematically into technological cooperation projects. I invite you to question him directly to discuss and take stock with him of his thoughts on this subject. I would also like to remind you of the important work that my administration has done within the NDC Partnership to support partners such as Rwanda, Cameroon, Burundi and Côte d'Ivoire in the implementation of their objectives through specific and concrete actions that contribute to strengthening their institutional capacity in the areas of greenhouse gas inventories, the development and implementation of their policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u33	Thank you for your answer. This leaves me hungry about the too small amounts of commitments. Belgium appears not to want to review them upwards in the context of this assessment, despite global challenges and needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u34	Madam President, Madam Minister, the resolution adopted in the House by a large majority on the eve of the Paris Conference provides for the government to call for the issuance of green bonds. In an exchange dated February 8, you announced to me that you would like to raise this issue with your colleague in Finance. You said that you would keep me informed of this consultation. Having still received nothing in return, I would like to return to you. More than a year and a half after the adoption of this resolution, I would finally like to know what action you have taken on this recommendation and what further action you intend to take in the future and on what timetable. I am convinced that this is an oversight on your part, but, in the meantime, things have changed well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u35	Madam President, honourable Member, I thank you for your question, which allows me to take stock of this issue and of the exchanges I have had with my Finance colleague on the interesting issue of green bonds. I am surprised, however, that you are not aware of the latest news on this issue, since I know the attention with which you are looking at the government's news to feed your parliamentary questions. I'll give you a little wink here, it's not mean! Following my discussions with the Minister of Finance, the Council of Socio-Economic Ministers on 25 July agreed on the principle of issuing green bonds to institutional investors in the course of 2018. As you know, green bonds are distinguished from a traditional obligation by the fact that its issuer undertakes to submit a detailed report on the investments made to attest to their allocation to environmental projects. This is why preliminary analysis is currently being conducted under the auspices of the Debt Agency and the Office of the Minister of Finance. My firm is heavily involved in this discussion in order to ensure consistency of work with our climate policy. The aim of this analysis is to identify, in collaboration with the administrations concerned and in the State budget, expenditure which may be eligible. The eligible projects and expenditures to which green bonds will be allocated will be diversified in terms of types of expenditure and will include projects and expenditures within federal jurisdiction. As you know, mobilizing alternative financing is an indispensable tool for achieving our climate goals and implementing the Paris Agreement. It is not for nothing that the French President Macron wishes to make it a flagship topic of the "stage summit" on the climate to be held next December in Paris. This funding is also consistent with the government's commitment to stimulate investment under the National Strategic Investment Plan. Following this opportunity analysis, which will be completed in the next few days, the government will decide whether or not to finalize this operation. I will plead for the government to complete this operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u36	Minister, I can only encourage you to argue in this direction, but by being careful that the investments are structuring and that they are not greenwashing or recycling expenditures already planned by the government, but new commitments that lead us to this necessary ecological transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u37	Minister, on January 6, 2016, I asked you about the evolution of the issue of the climate accountability mechanism. You told me that this mechanism imposed by the 2014 funding law was not operational. On 29 September, I asked you again about the matter and you replied that this mechanism had not yet entered its operational phase. What about today, a year after our last exchange? When are you finally going to bring this mechanism into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u38	In order to be effective, the implementation of the climate accountability mechanism requires several conditions to be met. The first is that the 2015 national emission figures for the sectors concerned are fully agreed. This was not the case until June 30, 2017. Secondly, the distribution of these figures by region must be available in order to determine the deviations from the trajectories provided for by law. It is up to the National Climate Commission to validate these differences. This item will have to be put on the agenda of a future plenary meeting. As long as the parties to the CNC, if any, in this case, the Regions do not report their emission figures for the sector concerned – the buildings – it will not be possible to validate the deviations, even if, theoretically, the law provides that this step may be exceeded, as information on regional emissions is not available at the level of the required aggregates. Note, however, that national emissions from the construction sector are lower than the sum of the statutory ceilings for 2015, i.e. a bonus situation. That's good news. It is therefore to be expected that the federal share of revenues from ETS emissions auctions will be consumed in large part for the payment of bonuses to the Regions. For 2016, a malus situation may be reached at national level on the basis of provisional data. But it is not clear whether one, two or three Regions will be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u39	Minister, I hear that this is still not being implemented. I regret this slowness. I would like you to speed up this process, even if some of the elements are in the hands of the Regions. You can also activate what is in a position to do so in order to be able to finalize the implementation of this important mechanism again this year. The figures you provided for 2015 show that this mechanism leads to positive payments, so much the better! However, this does not mean that it does not exist formally. I can only invite you to take matters into your own hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u40	Madam President, I can tell Mr Nollet that my colleague here is busy listing a series of topics for the next meeting of the National Climate Commission, knowing that the Presidency is in the hands of the Region and that at this level a few small changes have taken place!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u41	So this should make things easier!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u42	That's the point! It slowed them down a little bit at the end...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u43	Let's talk about Sunday and everything will be fine!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u44	Exactly, we'll meet on Sunday! It's an opportunity to start preparing our little laius, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u45	You got it all figured out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, following the issuance of a unanimous and critical and justified opinion of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (CFDD) against the report that Belgium submitted to the UN on 18 July to state its policy on sustainable development, you have indicated that you do not exclude the possibility of recasting this body. What exactly is the situation? What are your ideas, proposals and plans in this area? What are your timeline and work schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u47	Madam President, honourable Member, I would like to congratulate you on your very careful reading of the press, which is true all the time, although you sometimes quote selected pieces, not all of what you would have to quote to nuance the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u48	That's the rule of the game!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u49	This is, in any case, the rule of Mr Nollet's game, no doubt widely shared by others. The full sentence of the article published in Le Soir on July 7 is as follows: "I do not rule out re-founding this body with which I have very suitable relations, sometimes very toned and we will have to organize ourselves for a better efficiency in order to render more regular opinions within a more normal time frame." My remarks were related to the criticism relayed by the same newspaper about the voluntary report submitted to the United Nations by our Government. Indeed, the CFDD or, rather, some people within it – I have not been able to identify them to date – had launched spades that I find unfair and useless, especially since the work had been largely collective – you have heard it. This article follows a telephone interview I had with the journalist who published an article on the National Voluntary Report the previous day. You will remember that there were two articles. This meeting took place with the journalist aloud and the Director of DG Environment and the Director of the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development who were at my side. They were the ones who, having participated in this work, found the criticisms thus relayed totally unfair and caricatural, without the other speakers being asked what they finally thought of all this work. I would point out that the grievors who participated in this exercise did not recognize themselves at all in the description made on July 6. The first article reflected the only point of view of a few people in the CFDD, without seeking to gather other points of view and, by the way, mine too. So I was very upset and I expressed my dissatisfaction. I then met with the director of the CFDD and the proper relations I mentioned in this article did not deny themselves. We have explained ourselves and continue our work. What are my ideas and projects? I have just discussed with the Director of the CFDD how to consider a more effective and timely response to the requests for opinions that are being made. This is indeed one of the fundamental problems. In reality, those who apparently expressed themselves caricatureally were frustrated that they had not had enough time and had not been able to consult their base and rear base. At the same time, they recognize that more efficient operation would allow them to be present on more subjects. In addition, I told them and reiterated that I was always happy to receive own-initiative opinions. They can very well deal with a topic, do a work on this topic and give a motu proprio opinion. I don't see what the problem is. I know that it is a very broad, extremely diverse assembly, which makes it rich and complex in terms of harmonizing points of view. Making it possible to forge a view that can be expressed in a given time is more difficult in such a diverse large assembly. We will meet with representatives of the CFDD in a short time to try to see what their thoughts are in order to make this institution necessary and more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic746x.u50	Minister, I will reserve my reply as the dialogue is under way. The purpose of my question was to know if you had the opportunity to calm the game with them and resume the road to construction. This seems to be the case since an appointment has been set. We will come back to that later.
