ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u2	The next item is the oral questions. I would like to say in advance that for very exceptional reasons... ...and without precedent, we have changed the normal order but I repeat, once is not custom. The rule remains that the absences of ministers must be reported no later than Wednesday before the Conference of Presidents. Having said that, we shall begin with the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u3	Mr.President, Madam Minister, one of the government's objectives – the Prime Minister is constantly repeating this – is to maintain the competitiveness of businesses. And, for my part, I insist on consumer protection. The safety net was a tool that the previous government had put in place with the objective that energy prices, for both individuals and businesses, do not exceed the average of those in similar economies. By virtue of this, the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG) compared average prices in our neighbouring countries, with whom we had the most economic relations, and, if it found an unjustified price difference, the government could intervene to temper this price increase. We never needed this system. Rather, it had regulated prices in a positive way and the current government had continued the system for the period 2014-2017. We have just realized that this safety net system has been removed. Madam Minister, why was it deleted, when the CREG found that it was rather a bonus, that it maintained a favourable energy price for businesses and that consumer protection was consolidated in this system? Why has this been changed, while the price of energy is increasing more significantly than other products on the market? Why did you abolish this system of price regulation? Are you going to put in place another technique? Why have it been removed to the detriment of businesses and consumers, who have already experienced an increase in the cost of energy and VAT up to 21%? Is this decision relevant, Minister? Are you going to regulate the price of energy differently?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u4	Mr President, dear colleague, as you recalled from the outset in 2014, the law – more precisely the law of 8 January 2012 planned until 2014 – provided for the safety net mechanism to be a provisional mechanism. The government had decided to extend it for one year provisionally and no later than December 2017, which was done. The safety net is a control mechanism, according to the formula we know today, ex ante ex post of electricity prices and it does not allow suppliers to do anything about indexing since the criteria for indexing, i.e. the parameters related to the recognised and published electricity exchanges, exist. If a supplier uses another parameter, then it would be in default. Nor can prices go up. Market price indexation already exists and works both downwards and upwards. The competition between suppliers is very real: customers can change it. What is changing now is the control of the CREG. The end of the safety net precisely puts an end in the head of the CREG to the following two elements: the control of quarterly indices and the correct ex post application of the indexation formula and, then, the ex ante evaluation of the price increases announced by the suppliers. I commissioned a study from my administration since on July 17, the administration received proposals to analyze the situation and see what we can keep so as not to throw the baby away with the bath water. But for the time being, we see – the main one to remember – that the safety net has given what it has to give to enable prices to reach a certain maturity in the markets. As a result, today it does not seem necessary for control to be maintained ex ante but only ex post. In conclusion, CREG plans in the future to continue monitoring the prices offered to residential customers and SMEs, in particular by updating the database at Belgian level with price formulas for all products offered on the retail markets. With these elements – we will have the opportunity to come back to committee, I am sure – I think we will be able to retain the undeniable advantage of the safety net over time. Consumers will always benefit from correct, clear and transparent information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u5	Minister, you are explaining that since the dorsal parachute is working well, there is no need for a ventral parachute. So that's what you're trying to explain when it's explicitly a safety net, a possibility to regulate the price of energy and allow businesses and individuals to have a guarantee against a regulated price that works in an honest and classic way. The CREG at which you withdraw a number of skills had obviously worked well in the system and it had found that there was no need to remove this technique. Think I'm sorry. I'm waiting, since you're announcing it to us, what you're going to propose to us as a substitute for this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we saw an ambitious woman on a mission in the Infrastructure Committee. Sophie Dutordoir as the CEO of SNCB did not miss her start. The firm uppercut to those responsible for the abuses in the past still has to be painfully reminiscent of them. She firmly drew a line on that. It did not ask for any additional resources, because SNCB must first learn to turn every euro that is spent ten times. However, she asked for more autonomy in order to implement her ambitious but also realistic plan. Autonomy also in its day-to-day operation, without interference from politics and trade unions. Mrs Dutordoir argued for a different role for the government. A role in which the government deals with mobility policy as a whole, with intensive cooperation between the Regions and the federal government. A mobility policy in which the traveller is at the centre. She said that the traveller was the sole reason for SNCB's existence. That traveller wants today a safe, reliable, punctual and quality alternative to the car. Minister, my question to you is whether you support Mrs Dutordoir in her ambitious plan? How will you ensure that it can continue with the necessary autonomy to deliver on its ambitious plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, in 2016 I stated on behalf of the government that I want to put the traveller at the heart of my policy. I also said that SNCB needed, above all, new governance and a modern business culture. You heard yesterday how much the CEO appointed by the government shares the same view. Mrs Dutordoir was enthusiastic about her objectives, the values she wanted to share and the strategy to bring the proposed challenges to a successful conclusion. As you have seen, it wants to be inclusive and close to all the employees of SNCB. I am very pleased with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u8	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you will fully support her for greater autonomy of the public sector. We can only give her every chance. We will endorse her mission, as most groups did yesterday in committee. However, it is also our job, ladies and gentlemen, to think about the long term, about the future of SNCB. In doing so, we must dare to tear down the sacred houses. In doing so, we must have the courage to think about the introduction of private capital into the company or the admission of competition on the railways, without dogmas and without the land being destroyed again. Once again, the traveller is the sole reason for SNCB's existence, and we must never forget that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u9	May I ask the services to call Minister Peeters, because normally it should be his turn now? Fortunately, the Minister of the Interior is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, once again in the columns of L'Echo and on RTL's airwaves, you issued ideas on police management. While our fellow citizens and the police are waiting for concrete security and operational responses, you have returned to advocate for the reduction of police areas. In particular, you are presenting Brussels as a priority. You rely on a mission entrusted to Fernand Koekelberg, entrusted by you to probe the areas in this direction. What about this study? Has an initial report been issued? Can you pass it on to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said on several occasions, and as reflected in the government agreement, we wish to stimulate the merger of police areas. I have a small budget to facilitate the connection of computer systems. Good practices have also been promoted in areas ready for the merger. But I also asked two major specialists to go to the field to discuss with the mayors and chiefs of corps and to analyse how a restructuring of the territories of the police areas could be envisaged. There is no obligation. It was just about conducting a study. It has not yet resulted in a report. It goes without saying that as soon as this happens, even in intermediate form, the document may be submitted to the parliamentary committees. The coincidence is that one of the two specialists who do that work, the lamented Brice De Ruyver, left us a few hours ago. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Professor De Ruyver and thank him for his enormous efforts and the enormous influence he has had on security policy in this country. He was a very pleasant man to work with. I would therefore like to thank you for your question, Mr Kir, which also allows me to pay tribute here to the late Brice De Ruyver. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the reaction of the Chamber shows that we agree and agree with what the Minister has just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u13	Minister, I join you in expressing my condolences to the family and to the family. I would like to return to the debate that you are opening. You regularly insist on the institution, whereas this matter is not included in the government agreement. Does this really meet the expectations of citizens and police? That is the question that we should address. What citizens expect is a local police, an accessible police, listening to people, present on the ground, which contributes to the protection of citizens. What did you do to respond to their request? Your answer is far from people's concerns. You come with a new institutional mechanism, which actually amounts to making the police more distant, especially in rural areas, or more anonymous in densely populated urban areas. Minister, what are our police officers waiting for now? First of all, to have complete teams in the field, both at the level of the police zones and at the level of the federal police. They're calling for you to improve working conditions. Look at the numbers of illness, burn out, that's exploded since you've been in the government. They also call for a valorisation of the work carried out on the ground by the neighbourhood inspectors. Together with the Socialist Group, we have tabled a bill to grant bonuses to neighbourhood workers. Let us work together in Parliament to meet this legitimate expectation. At the level of police areas, we should work in complementarity. The federal government should be supportive. However, on a regular basis, the federal government is looking for the local's means to compensate for the federal failings. What citizens and police officers expect of this government is not institutional DIY, but that the police should be given the means to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u14	Just last week, Minister, the Prime Minister stated in his policy statement that security is a priority for this government. Nice words, but in practice this is not exactly the case. We know that there is nothing to be said about this policy of criminal execution. Yesterday, however, it also appeared that a VTM journalist could easily penetrate the country's largest weapons store. The pilot bank for firearms of Liège is the only institution in this country that is competent for the destruction and transformation of weapons. It is also the only institution that can control and certify the soundness of weapons. This institution therefore has a monopoly position and is in practice controlled by Liège armor makers. There are about 10 000 weapons, including hunting rifles and kalashnikovs. Apparently, in times of terror threat level 3 one can just walk in and out of there. Just ring the doorbell at the gate, that's all it takes. And that can be done completely anonymously because the name has not even been asked, let alone registered. Mr Minister, the safety problems at this test bench are not new. The personnel have already sued the lack of security on several occasions. Everyone knows, moreover, that the status and functioning of the institution are problematic. It is hardly possible to refer to it in Dutch or not, while the Flemings do not have a full service in their own language and region. These are all matters in which a bill would change. In response to a written question, you stated in February 2015 that your administration was finalising a preliminary draft law. That was two and a half years ago. So my first logical question is when is this bill finally coming? Will Flanders receive an institution equivalent to this in Wallonia? Can you explain to me, for God's sake, why this is dragging on so long? It is not justified to postpone any further security measures. I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u15	Mr President, Minister, in June I asked you a question about security at the Firearms Trial Bank in Liège. I asked you then whether it would not be useful to have a safety audit carried out there. I put this question to the attention of a number of visitors to the test bench, who had pointed out to me in the weeks and months before that they had serious questions about safety and the possibilities of access there. They told me that they held their hearts and should not think about what would happen when visiting people with less good intentions. I asked you that question and you gave me an answer. According to the answer, there were in fact no problems and therefore no audit was ordered. However, I had the impression that the answer you gave was inspired by information from the on-the-job director of the Firearms Trial Bank in Liège. I think, however, that this information was coloured; you were told that there is no dirt in the air, but it does not seem to be so good. Yesterday we received proof of this through a number of images which make us decide that there are indeed problems with access and security. Minister, I have two questions. First of all, do you have any confidence in the warden on duty or will you call that man out? Secondly, in the interests of our safety, will there finally be a safety audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pas, Mr Degroote, it is clear that security must be guaranteed, especially in this place, where there are a lot of weapons. Let us not have any discussion about this; safety must be as high as possible. I have also taken note of the images broadcast by VTM, if I am not mistaken, where we see a journalist coming up to the test bench window. According to the information, he hasn't moved on. The reporter said he could move on, but he didn't. This is clearly a not insignificant new fact. A while ago, in response to your question, I did get the information that walls, surveillance cameras and controls are there, but now it turns out that what was then reported to me about security is not being realized in practice. I will take the necessary steps, and very quickly. Firstly, I asked the acting director for an internal investigation and told him that I want the results of this next week. I want to know exactly what happened and how it is possible to have access to the window or even more. After all, that is not justified. Secondly, on your question of whether an external security audit was necessary at the time, I did indeed reply that this was not necessary on the basis of my information. For the record, I will no longer defend this statement, as I am confronted with this fact. I will call the Executive Board next week, which will have to decide on an external security audit and make the funding for it. I will specifically ask for an external security audit to be carried out. In short, I will, firstly, ask for an internal investigation and, secondly, I will take immediate action next week and ask for an external security audit. Mr Pas, as other Members have said, we must move forward. Putting the final hand on something sometimes takes a little longer than usual. Unfortunately, that is the case in certain cases. I agree with you and Mr Degroote that we should proceed with this dossier in a good way. I will therefore take the necessary steps. After all, what happened in Liège is impossible. I recall that Mr Degroote has already made proposals to organise safety there differently. I am using this incident to speed up the measures in question so that we can be sure that the test bench is properly secured and properly organised in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a pity that such incidents are needed before you get started and switch to a higher gear. You're waiting for an internal investigation. Well, I hope that the research is indeed going fast, because we must ensure that it does not turn out to be waiting for a real serious incident in practice. Security doesn't tolerate a delay. I take your word that it will go very quickly and that it will not happen as with your draft law on this matter, which we are waiting for two and a half years. To be continued, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I am pleased that the problem is being understood and that it is certainly not being swept under the mat. If there were no audit orders, I would have called that incredibly. The search for an audit is a good decision. Mrs Pas, to meet you, it is true that the draft law is waiting for a while, but in the meantime the N-VA itself has drafted a bill, which has already been translated. If everything goes well, our legislative proposal will be able to be considered in plenary next week. Mr President, I look forward to everyone's cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we proceed as agreed. By this I mean that we will merge some oral questions, which will be answered by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u20	Mr President, Minister, today I am at the side of all the sluts, all the teasers, all those who have sought him well, all those whom some men – far too many men unfortunately – regard as objects or sex toys. Today, therefore, I am at the side of the victims of harassment, sexism, violence, rape that we want to make guilty. Minister, the "Metoo" and "Balancetonporc" campaigns are a real detonator in the world. The law of silence is finally broken. Why did these women kill themselves? Why do some men continue to show off, harass, touch, rape? The legislation does exist, that's right. But when one sees the magnitude of the phenomenon, one finds that it does not scare. Why don't women walk through the door of a police station? Why do some police officers take the complaint and then forget it? Why don't the public prosecutor's offices prosecute? All these questions are the answers that explain the silence of women who are victims of harassment, sexism or rape. Mr Minister, I am well aware that it is a change in society that is necessary and at different levels, from the education of children to the repression of harassers and the listening and respect of victims. But through your criminal policy and the policy put in place notably by the Minister of Justice, you embody what society can accept or not accept. You must now give a strong signal to the victims so that they dare to speak. You must now give a strong signal to the police and judicial authorities to hear these women and prosecute these offences. And you have to give a strong signal to the culprits so that they understand that they will be punished. Minister, what concrete initiatives have you taken and intend to take with your colleague from Justice to both say to women "We are listening to you. Go and file a complaint!" and say to some men "Basta!"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u21	Ministers, after the Weinstein case in the United States, the hashtags "MeToo" and "balancetonporc" appeared. Tens of thousands of testimonies show that the phenomenon is far more widespread than some people thought or have so far admitted: at work, in public places and even in the family home, women are insulted, affected, harassed, raped, assaulted and sometimes even killed. This is a serious societal problem. There is also the culture of rape. How many films do they not stage situations where the woman who says "no" is supposed to say "yes"? There is a tendency to minimize this issue or even laugh when a woman complains. The problem is therefore twofold: on the one hand, the seriousness of the problem and the number of cases; on the other, the tendency to reduce its scope. Furthermore, victims are not heard by society or, unfortunately, by the police and the prosecution. Too few complaints are filed in relation to the number of cases. Why? Due to a lack of information, complicated procedure, difficulties in establishing evidence. La Meuse's front page, last Saturday, addressed the case of a girl who had been raped. After giving an atrocious testimony in connection with a complaint filed in December, she has always received no news, while she still encounters her attacker on the street. I am also obviously thinking of the tragic case of student Louise in Liège, who was killed by a repeat rapist on parole. She had not filed a complaint, but she was unaware of the history of her attacker. However, it seems to me that the police could have encouraged him to do so. In addition, no VPs have been developed. Only an in-house fact sheet was written, while the officer – but you will confirm it, Minister – had consulted the rapist's file. Ministers of Justice and the Interior, do you not find that there is a problem in the police and judicial reception of harassed and assaulted women? You have made proposals to remedy this. Then, do you intend to take steps to better inform the public and facilitate the filing of complaints? What are the useful follow-up and information that a person can expect when making a complaint? How can we reduce the risk of being attacked in defamation when testifying on social networks? That is indeed a problem. I come to my last question, if I may, Mr President. It is addressed to you, Mr Jambon: what can you tell us about Louise's case in Liège?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will reply as regards the police services. The other aspect of the problem is for my colleague Geens. You already know my point of view. Whatever the complaint, it is expected that the police will take it seriously and that every victim who files a complaint will be treated professionally. That's the base. That is why we have included deviant sexual behaviour in the comprehensive security framework note in the 2016 National Security Plan and in the 2015 National Action Plan against Gender-Based Violence. This phenomenon is therefore a priority for the security services. I've been looking at the subject for some time now. This is also part of the basic training of police officers. Care is taken to raise awareness and provide the knowledge needed to deal with this type of problem. A manual dedicated to morals has been distributed on digital media. Combined with the intervention guide, it provides valuable assistance to police officers in the field. This guide includes a section entitled Sexual assaults with very detailed advice on how to accommodate, listen to and inform a person who is a victim of sexual assault in order to assist police officers in the performance of their duties. As far as the specific case of Liège is concerned, the investigation is still under way. The police organization is an organization of 45,000 people. They are all human beings, and human beings can make mistakes. It's up to us, police management, to check that the system, the procedures are working. Excluding one of the people in the police organization making a mistake is a utopia. A human being remains bankrupt. This is the case in Liège, with terrible consequences, I agree. A judicial investigation will be conducted and, if necessary, sanctions will be imposed. The aim is therefore to continue to encourage victims to file complaints through other channels, such as victim surveys. I must add that my colleague Zuhal Demir will launch three pilot projects in November. The Sexual Violence Centre provides a multidisciplinary shelter for victims of sexual violence. Specially trained hospital staff and police officers will accompany the victims. The aim is to extend this pilot project to a larger number of centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the case of sexual abuse committed by the film producer in the United States has aroused many reactions and will certainly have repercussions worldwide. It is positive that these cases are revealed. In this sense, the MeToo hashtag is a good tool among many offered by the judiciary and the police. Above all, initiatives are needed to avoid this type of behaviour and to discuss it. A criminal approach at the judicial level will always be complemented by prevention and immediate response. As provided for in the comprehensive security framework note agreed at the federal level and as provided for in the National Action Plan of the Federal Police, combating sexual violence is a major priority for the government as a whole. A message on social media via a common hashtag as practical and empathetic as it may be, does not constitute a statement and therefore no evidence in the eyes of the law. That is why I call on all victims, regardless of gender or gender, to make a concrete statement of the facts, even if they have taken place a long time ago. A large number of complaints may indeed constitute a more extensive file and these complaints may possibly be linked to recent events which could be criminally prosecuted. Finally, I would like to point out that justice has long pointed out that it will pursue sexual crime if it has sufficient evidence. I refer in particular to the directive of the Attorneys General to the police on the application of sexual aggression in cases of rape, the new legislation on sexual abuse, the training and designation of reference magistrates, the improvement of the DNA investigation and the interconnection of data banks between Member States. The Committee on the Reform of Criminal Law is currently looking at the penalties and penal provisions provided for in sexual criminal law in order to ensure greater coherence and sufficiently severe penalties. The debate on whether our sexual criminal law is sufficiently precise will take place next year in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u24	Thank you, Ministers, for your answers, it is indeed time to give a voice to each of these women victims of violence, to give them an answer, to show them that society is at their side and that, therefore, they are not alone. It is essential that they continue to report and file complaints so that these facts are no longer trivialized and offences are prosecuted. It's important. What happens to these women is not the norm. They didn't look for him, they're not sluts, they're not teasers. It is important to repeat it. Yes, they are victims who must be listened to and respected. I'll come back to it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u25	Ministers, I understand that this issue is integrated into the Action Plan, that you are aware of the issues at stake. We wonder if it's not limited to paper statements. In the field, there is a lack of information. It would be important for a list of acts of harassment to be available so that victims can more easily identify the facts and not be afraid to file a complaint. In Belgium, only one in ten rapes is the subject of a complaint. That's very little. And all we're talking about here is rape. Sixty per cent of women were reported to have been harassed from the age of 15. Minister, you're also talking about human error. It may indeed exist. But I also think that when there are too few personnel, it can also promote human mistakes. Because we don't have time to process all the files, dramas happen. This may be part of what also explains what happened in Liège. I expect this government to really take charge of this problem. I hope we can say that there was one before and one after the MeToo wave.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u26	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, before the parliamentary holidays, we had a debate of quite interesting content and scope on what should be the policy of arms exports to countries where we can say that the regimes are more than disputed and questionable in terms of respect for democratic values. Who doesn't remember the very strong words of a number of spokespersons? I remember the words of Richard Miller – I regret that he is not here today, he could have questioned – or Georges Dallemagne. A kind of enthusiasm bore the resolution adopted by Parliament. But, no doubt, at that time, the disconnection of a plug was not announced. A few months ago, I recall that Mr Borsus was a member of the federal government when we adopted the resolution calling on the federated entities not to engage in commercial relations for the sale of arms with certain countries, including Saudi Arabia. Obviously, 60 kilometres away, between Brussels and Namur, everything is forgotten! I don't need much! Do we have to cross the Meuse to forget everything already? I don't know, but I don't believe it. The most disturbing is the lack of seriousness, consistency and credibility on the part of those who have been the most active in bringing about the adoption of this resolution. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have you been notified in advance? Now that there is more spontaneous agreement between the Walloon Minister-President and the federal government, that there is almost a symbiosis, I assume that he has not kept you in ignorance of the decision he has made to authorize the export of arms. What a lack of consideration if it were! If you have been confronted with the fait accompli, I cannot understand that, in all cases ceasing, you did not convene an interdepartmental committee to ask Mr Borsus for some explanation and consistency, reminding him that he was your colleague in the federal government at the time this resolution was adopted by our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u27	Minister, do you remember that in April the Belgian Federal Government voted for Saudi Arabia in a UN Committee on Women's Rights? That was hallucinating; Belgian foreign policy was really embarrassing. With Green and Ecolo, we have continued to do so. We have asked that it be different and we have written a resolution asking for a fundamental review of our relations with Saudi Arabia. There was unanimity on this and the majority parties then approved that motion for a resolution. Done with the business as usual. But what do we see now? Walloon arms companies are allowed to export EUR 1.8 million in arms to Saudi Arabia. The Walloon Government's decision to grant that licence is unscrupulous. Saudi Arabia is at war in Yemen and is targeting the civilian population. How can you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, be credible about the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia if at the same time your party colleague in Wallonia gives the green light for further arms trade with Saudi Arabia? That's hallucinating and disgusting. Once again, our Belgian foreign policy is an embarrassment. That decision weakens our position and smears the image of our country. Mr Clarinval and Mr Minister, I do not know if you have party management on Monday. Book a lot of time for that. You will have to say a word about your position there, because you speak with a double tongue when it comes to arms trade with Saudi Arabia. To conclude, I have two more questions. I would ask you to bring the regions together quickly in order to achieve greater coherence and coordination in our arms trade and arms exports policy. You sent a letter to the regions asking them to stop arms exports to Saudi Arabia. You have already received an answer from the Flemish Government. I would like to ask you to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u28	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard with surprise the Walloon Government's decision to approve further arms deliveries to Saudi Arabia. We find that very disappointing. Saudi Arabia has been involved in a bloody war in Yemen for years. This has catastrophic consequences for that country and its people: there is a humanitarian crisis. From the point of view of development cooperation, we are trying to ease things a little. Minister De Croo has made more than EUR 10 million available to help the people there, but it continues to mop with the crane open, especially when a region, in this case the Walloon Region, allows arms to be exported to Saudi Arabia. It has already been pointed out by fellow Members that in June we adopted the resolution on foreign policy in Saudi Arabia by a large majority. I was glad that you supported it then, Minister, and I was also pleased to read this morning that you still support it. Article 9 of the resolution states that the Länder will be asked to put an end to the import, export and transit of military goods into the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Mr President, first of all, what steps have you taken with the regions between June and today to make clear to them what to do with the implementation of the article in question? Secondly, what steps will you take with the Walloon Region in the light of the deal? Thirdly, will you organise a consultation of the Regions in the framework of the cooperation agreement on arms trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u29	Colleagues from the N-VA, colleagues from the MR, colleagues from CD&V and colleagues from Open Vld, how low do you lower the government? Once again, the government chooses not the principles, but the portfolio. Colleagues, Saudi Arabia is notorious for internal human rights violations. Saudi Arabia has financed terror in Europe, even in Belgium. Saudi Arabia is in a dirty war in Yemen. I can spoil you with reports from international organizations. I can refer you to the committee of inquiry set up by the UN in charge of investigating violations of humanitarian law in Yemen. At the same time, my fellow Members, a Belgian government, the Walloon Region government, decides to issue 25 arms delivery permits to Saudi Arabia. What does the Foreign Minister say about that? He says he hasn't changed his mind. It is good that you have not changed your mind, Minister for Foreign Affairs, but what we are interested in is what steps the federal government, with an MR Prime Minister in charge and an MR Minister in charge, has taken to the MR Prime Minister of the Walloon Region to get him to refrain from these incredible arms deliveries. That's what we want to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u30	Mr Minister, on 8 June, just before the great holiday, the Chamber indeed adopted a resolution on our relations with Saudi Arabia. Paragraph 9 stated that we would ask the Länder to put an end to the import, export and transit of military goods and technology to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. That decision was not taken lightly. We have struck a balance between, on the one hand, our strategic interests and, on the other hand, our values and our vision of human rights. In the resolution, we have resolutely opted for the latter. That is not illogical either, because it has been mentioned several times already, Saudi Arabia is involved in a horrible war with Yemen. The coalition led by Saudi Arabia has already killed thousands of people in Yemen. It has already carried out 5 000 air strikes in the last year, not for military purposes, but for hospitals, hotels, schools, even funerals. The crisis that is taking place there is the worst humanitarian crisis that is currently raging in the world. The strange thing about this whole story is that yesterday it appears that the Walloon Region approved 25 arms export licences to Saudi Arabia. I don't understand. That's inexplicable. That decision is in no way consistent with our federal development cooperation policy. That decision cannot be reconciled with our view of human rights. It is not even compatible with the resolution adopted in the Chamber. If we want to take ourselves seriously, if we want to go for a sound and sustainable foreign policy, it must be a coherent policy. Minister, what is your position on the Walloon Region's decision in the light of all the comments that have already been made here today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u31	Mr President, we have debated this issue several times in committee meetings, even yesterday, but there may be more people present in plenary. I shall therefore repeat a number of points. What have we done on the federal level since the House adopted the resolution on Saudi Arabia? Firstly, I immediately contacted European Commissioner Federica Mogherini to request a discussion at European level of a possible arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. Secondly, I have also contacted the three Prime Ministers of the three Regions to provide them with all the information relating to the resolution and to ask them for a response. I have already received a reply on 19 June, at the time of Walloon Minister-President Paul Magnette, who pointed out to me: "Wallonia supports the establishment of an embargo at European level on the export of arms and dual-use equipment to Saudi Arabia". But there was no question of a request for an embargo specifically from the Region, like the resolution. I also received an answer from the Brussels-Capital Region, in particular from Mr Vanhengel, responsible for External Relations. I quote: "When this happens at European Union and/or United Nations level and both arms and dual use goods are endorsed, the Brussels-Capital Region can support the agreement so that the federal government would advocate a restriction on the export of the said goods.' In September, I repeated my request to the Prime Minister of the Flemish Region, since he had not yet given me an answer. I have, of course, also sent a letter to the new Minister-President of the Walloon Government, Mr Borsus. I have received a reply from the Flemish Minister-President. This response arrived on October 11th. This reply said: 'I can respond positively to the request for entry, exit and transit of goods listed on the EU Common Military List'. As far as dual use goods are concerned, I have another answer. "However, as far as the goods and technology referred to in the list are concerned'...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this respect, in view of the conditions imposed by the resolution, on the basis of an agreement between the regions, further consultation between the Länder in relation to this latter element is under consideration. I will take the necessary steps to this end." I have not yet received an answer from the new Prime Minister of the Walloon Region, Mr Borsus. As far as the request for implementation of the resolution is concerned, as I recalled, I have not changed my attitude. I ask that this resolution be implemented. I will therefore continue the work on the European embargo which is accepted by the three regions with regard to the armaments sector itself. We will take the initiative to see if we can get agreement from the three Regions for dual-use equipment. I have not yet received a positive response from the Flemish Region in this regard. Mr Maingain, with regard to the Federal Parliament's request to the Regions to refrain from delivering weapons – a matter within their exclusive competence – I have not yet received any official information regarding the granting of licences by any Region. I suppose this information will come to me. When I read the press, I obviously asked that contact be made with the Walloon Region for details of the measure. Then I come to the question of possible action on the basis of our traditional consultation with the Regions in the framework of a cooperation agreement. That's the case. We have already had three consultations on Saudi Arabia in April 2015, April 2016 and March 2017. I'm, of course, willing to have another meeting. But this can also be done at ministerial level, on the basis of the Flemish Region's request for an agreement between the three regions on an embargo on a specific category of products. In conclusion, I must say that I regret that we are not moving in the direction of implementing the House's resolution, both on the arms export ban, but also on the request for an embargo on arms and dual-use equipment. I will therefore continue my efforts in this area, since I know that in the Regions it has been a long tradition to have reserves for dual-use equipment while organizing arms exports. I understand the strong reaction of some Members, but I repeat that this is nothing new. I have seen many different majorities in the Walloon region and there have always been arms supplies. Mr De Vriendt, you should ask your group colleague, Mr Nollet. When he was Deputy Prime Minister of the Walloon Region, it happened. Personally, I will continue to strive for the correct application of all the elements of the resolution. Finally, Mr President, I have already said it in committee and I repeat it now. On the basis of the conclusions of your Committee of Inquiry on Radicalism and Salafism, I also asked for a specific mission to be sent to Riyadh. Next month my service and the services of Justice, the OCAD and other departments will go there. In this way we can proceed on the basis of the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry. I repeat, I will continue to work within my powers, in proper consultation with the Regions within their powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u32	Before I turn to the reply, I shall pass the floor to Mr Nollet for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u33	Mr President, indeed, I have asked for the floor for a personal fact because I was quoted by Minister Reynders. I will not insult his intelligence by reminding him that the decision on this matter falls within the exclusive competence of the Minister-President, which the Walloon government as a whole has never had to sign his agreement. On the other hand, the Minister-President does this systematically. As a result, we have had the legislation amended. If, today, the President-in-Office of the Walloon Commission for the Sale of Arms considers that one can actually refuse in Wallonia, which was not the case in the past, it is because the decree that we initiated has since evolved. But it is true, as you know, that competence remains in the hands of the minister-president alone. I knew your answer for having already heard it, but you are not right to say that we have approved this kind of decision and we will not. Unlike the MR, it is not because there is a problem within the MR that you will be able to move it elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u34	I would like to reassure Mr. Nollet. It's not a personal fact at all. This was a historical fact. In my opinion, if decisions are made by anyone in a government – to my knowledge, this is the case in the federal and in the regions, too, I think – the responsibility is collegial, otherwise, if you are so attached to the refusal to deliver arms, you leave the majority, you leave the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u35	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u36	I listened to the Foreign Minister's response with interest. We know his subtle argument. But how can we be convincing on the European scene to plead for a European embargo, when one cannot convince in one's own country and, a fortiori, his own political friends? However, I find you a little excuse: Mr Borsus, it is true, is not one of your loved ones. [[Laughs]] But since he is very close to the Prime Minister, and nothing can be done without the Prime Minister's agreement in this trend of the MR, I fear that in this case the Prime Minister has endorsed Mr Borsus' decision, which is much more serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u37	Mr Minister, it is correct that in our resolution, adopted by Parliament, we are also calling for an end to exports of goods and materials for dual use, which can therefore also be used in military terms. There is an answer from the Flemish Government in this regard. Geert Bourgeois says in the Flemish Government's reply, in an official letter, that he cannot at present respond to the request from the Federal Parliament to stop exporting material that can also be deployed by Saudi Arabia in a military capacity. So, Mr Reynders, you are not the only one speaking with a double tongue: if Open Vld, CD&V and N-VA are speaking out against arms exports, they are doing something quite different in the Flemish Government. There they do not obstruct the export of material that can be used militaryly by Saudi Arabia. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, people today have neither faith nor confidence in politics. Say "A" here and in Flanders "B," people are sick of it. Take responsibility, stop arms exports federally and regionally and certainly also in Flanders. The ball is in your camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers and for your commitment to implementing Article 9 of the resolution. The Walloon Region's decision remains incomprehensible and shows that in this federal country there should be better cooperation between Regions and Communities and a single policy aimed at achieving a coherent Belgian policy. We do not, of course, know what commitments have been made, but we do know that the Walloon ship which has been in the wrong direction for 15 years now has and will have to be turned into a captain in a very slow way, without a captain. I hope and am sure that a Liberal Prime Minister will be able to do so. Finally, Mr Van der Maelen. I find your timing very inappropriate. Your fervent plea just now would have brought you here at the beginning of the year, when your comrades of the PS were still at the helm of the Walloon ship.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy is a fine act and gives politicians a lot of entertainment. The hypocrisy that has been displayed here over the past few weeks and months about arms deliveries to Saudi Arabia is indeed very damaging to the public's confidence in politics. Yesterday there was another excellency, Alexander De Croo, who said he was disappointed with that decision. I would like to address him. Have you forgotten that your party is in the Flemish government? At the federal level, you condemn arms deliveries and at the Flemish level, according to the answer given by Geert Bourgeois.................................................................................................................................................... This also applies to N-VA and CD&V. Any initiative by my colleague Suns from the sp.a Group to bring Flanders' policy into line with the federally approved resolution is voted off by the three Flemish majority parties. N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld.. nice federal words, but the regional acts say something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My fellow Members have already referred to a number of terms which are not clearly defined in the resolution. However, the resolution makes a very clear reference to a European list which clearly states which goods are excluded. It also calls on the national parliaments to pursue this. However, we must not look at what is in the resolution, but at the future. A European arms embargo is needed. We must make it clear that we cannot accept exports to countries such as Saudi Arabia. You yourself, Minister, have said that this is a long-term work. This won't work from today to tomorrow. At European level, we must make the spirits ripe and make it clear that this is the way we want to go. I call on you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, to include this leadership at European level. We can only do this if we have a credible policy, if we take that leadership role in a credible way, if we practice what we preach, if we do what we say. I continue to appeal to you every day, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, to put that into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u41	Mr President, Minister, the day before yesterday the Syrian city of Raqqa fell. Raqqa was a stronghold and also the headquarters of the terrorist organization IS. Following the reconquest of Mosul in Iraq, this means that the joint efforts of the international coalition, of which our country is a part, have achieved results. We regret that the atrocities of ISIS have caused many civilian victims, innocent victims, children, women and men. In recent months more than 400 Belgian young people have been lured to Syria and Iraq by IS. Some of them were killed there. Others who have not fought to the death may be ready to return. After an armed conflict comes the reckoning, the trial. The Iraqi ambassador in our country stated on Friday in an interview that Belgians who have committed terrorist activities will be tracked down and tried by the Iraqi government. Attackers risk the death penalty. You announced in the media that an identification procedure would soon be launched for Belgian women and children of IS fighters currently being held in a camp near Mosul. Minister, do you have any idea of the number of Belgians trapped in the camp near Mosul today? What is the status of this identification procedure? What will be the policy of our country with regard to these kinship families, women and children of IS fighters? What about the repatriation of this group to our country? What policy will be pursued once these people arrive in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u42	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, I too am proud of the evolution on the ground, in Raqqa, after Mosul in Iraq and many other cities. It is a real success for the military coalition, but there are many other problems on the ground. I got the same information from a reporter from the VRT. We have contacted the Iraqi ambassador in Brussels. However, I have done more than that. I have asked our Embassy in Amman, Jordan, responsible for Iraq, to contact the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). This is not only present in one camp, but also in the camp of Hammam al-Alil near Mosul. The ICRC has informed our embassy that it has not identified any person in that camp who claims to be a Belgian citizen. According to the ICRC, this does not preclude a limited number of Belgians, but who do not wish to identify themselves as such with the ICRC. I was a little surprised by the many comments. First it was about maybe 500 Belgians, a few hours later about 100 Belgians on the spot and now, according to the ICRC, there is no Belgian. That's a first problem. Secondly, the identification or determination of who is Belgian is the exclusive competence of the Belgian authorities. So if there is a question from people who say they are Belgian and want to return to Belgium, we will send a mission in the context of an identification procedure. So far, however, we have not received a question. Follow-up after the return to Belgium is the responsibility of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers. I repeat, however, that we have so far, after an initial verification, no information on the presence of women or children in the camp in the Mosul region. I am therefore a little surprised by the comments in the press, certainly from the Iraqi embassy in Brussels, without confirmation on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u43	Minister, the fact that there are no Belgians at this camp does not mean that there will be no Belgians in other places. When the question comes, we will indeed have to take action quickly. We must also distinguish between IS fighters who have fought in the front and followers who have not necessarily participated in the crimes and atrocities of IS or who have no blood on their hands. I am thinking in particular of children who were taken or born there. We have to do something about it. If there were to be a question for repatriation, we would have to cooperate with the Iraqi authorities. We must then establish cooperation with the Iraqi authorities and other countries within the international coalition at the level of international diplomatic relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u44	Mr President, Minister, Spain has granted Catalonia a great deal of rights. Although Spain was not obliged to do so at all, that has happened. That is what we call the application of the right of self-determination, the right of internal self-determination. This means that it is the people's right to freely determine their political status and pursue their economic, cultural and social development. This internal right of self-determination has been recognised by the United Nations Convention. It is included in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. What do we see now? Rajoy is threatening to apply Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. For Catalonia, this means the end of internal self-determination. And that, Minister, is contrary to international law. As far as I know, international law still prevails even on the Spanish Constitution. So Spain cannot simply give Catalonia internal self-determination and then simply take it away. Minister, will Belgium condemn this violation of international law? That's not all. Spain has also locked up two Catalan leaders preventively. So we are once again dealing with political prisoners within the EU. Locking people up for their opinion is flagrantly contrary to free speech, and also to the free political debate. In this respect too, I would like to hear Belgium's position. Will Belgium condemn this phenomenon of political prisoners or not? After all, it is not possible for this to happen in Europe in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, there are three elements. Firstly, you speak of a violation of international law. We have not yet established any violation of international law as the referendum by the Spanish Constitutional Court was declared invalid in accordance with Spanish national law. Secondly, as far as respect for human rights is concerned, tribunals and courts are the appropriate bodies to rule on individual violations if individuals consider that their rights have been violated. Thirdly, we are following the situation in Spain. I have been in contact with my Spanish colleague on the telephone and then I saw him in Luxembourg in the framework of the European Foreign Affairs Council. Today or tomorrow, our Prime Minister will also be in contact with his Spanish colleague in this regard. We shall therefore follow the situation. I have therefore given you an answer on international law, as well as on possible proceedings before the courts or tribunals in Spain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, the violation of international law did not occur in the context of organising the referendum, but in the context of the planned application of Article 155. Locking people up for their political beliefs, which I still call intimidation, is what I call state terror. We know that Spain has had difficult years under Franco and I have the impression that Franco has returned. Freedom of expression and a free political debate are essential elements of a democracy. Without free speech and without a free political debate, there is no democracy. Yes, Spain is now openly violating international law when it implements Article 155. Yes, Spain is also violating human rights. I believe that a country which does not respect international law and human rights cannot be part of the European Union either. In this case, there is also a violation of the agreements in the EU Treaty, in particular Article 2 on respect for the rule of law and human rights. It is high time that the EU established this. A country with political prisoners cannot be part of the EU at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u47	Mr Minister, the report by Mr Pano, who sent out the VRT last night, once again puts a painful finger on a very old wound: the lack of health care in our prisons. Belgium has already been sentenced a dozen times by the European Court of Human Rights. From a survey of 106 life-long punished people we learn, firstly, that 50% of them, half of them, do not think they will be better people in our prisons, and secondly, 75% think they do not receive psychological help and guidance. The Federal Health Knowledge Centre comes to the same conclusion. We do not achieve the minimum standards of care and guidance in prisons imposed by the United Nations and even included in our Belgian legislation. Our prisons mustn't be waste pits. It's our damn social duty to treat the prisoners with dignity. That is in the interests of everyone's safety. If prisoners are left to their fate in prisons, within the walls, as is happening now, there is a great risk that they will leave prison far more dangerous than they were put in prison. It's no good to anyone. Minister, a very good structural measure would be that health care is no longer subject to justice, but goes to health. Have you taken any steps in this respect? What measures will you take pending a possible transfer to improve the health care of prisoners in our prisons in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u48	Mrs Lambrecht, your question comes at a time when the Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre has just, at the request of my colleague De Block, produced a study on health care in the 35 Belgian prisons. This report has produced a number of conclusions on some specific health problems, the provision of care in our prisons, the organisation of care and the cost of care in prisons. At present, the cost of health care in prisons is borne by the Justice Department, because people who are in prison, although under the basic law they are entitled to equal health care if people outside prison, do not enjoy social security and public health, as other people do. Mrs De Block and I have taken care of this, yes, in the government we are working together that an additional EUR 33 million will be allocated to Health and Justice in the short term in order to raise the level of healthcare for interns. In addition, we transfer the costs to Health, so that the standards of Health, which are better than the standards of Justice, are respected. Hopefully, together, it is important that Mrs De Block listen carefully, because she should be able to transfer health care to Health with me in 2018-2019. That is the end of the reform. I very much hope that we will be able to achieve this in the course of the present legislature. In that case, Mrs Lambrecht, you will be much happier when you have to ask questions to the next Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u49	Of course, Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. I am pleased that you will take into account the many years of concern with your colleague, Mrs De Block. Let us hope that I can still stand here often to check everything and ask questions. I urge you to organise health care within the walls of the prison for whom a prison sentence is served better, so that our security is guaranteed when the prisoners have served their sentence within the walls. I can only underline that health is crucial, even within the prison walls. We hope that progress will be made quickly. You will no doubt realise that it is almost five past twelve and that every day we delay in this matter is a day too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u50	Mr. Minister of Justice, over the past few days in the media, we have read the statements of counsel for Marc Dutroux, who is preparing a parole application for his client. He thus communicated his intention to have him examined by psychiatrists in order to assess his danger to society. Undoubtedly, the mere mention of a conditional release of the one who is still and still considered to be the number one public enemy in our country has provoked emotion among the population. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in June 2004 with a government release. At the same time, the press today relayed your comments about long-term prison leave. I cannot imagine for a moment that you were thinking about this specific case when you made this statement. It can be understood that, read in parallel, these two informations may cause concern not only to the victims but also to the population. Minister, I do not hide it from you, I have some concern about this issue. However, we know that the government is sensitive to this issue since on 14 May last, at the extraordinary Council of Ministers, the government validated the principle of the security period for the most serious offences, in accordance with the government agreement. We have never hid from it at the level of the MR, the incompressibility of certain penalties is a measure that we have been demanding for a long time. It is imperative for us to put in place greater coherence between the sentence imposed and the sentence actually carried out. It is a question of protection and pacification of society but also of respect for the victims. Minister, given the public's concern, could you provide us with some reassuring information on the subject? Has the decision of the Council of Ministers of 14 May 2017 to introduce security periods into our criminal arsenal already been translated into the texts? Do you have any details on how to apply these security periods? By what date could this measure come into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u51	Mr Calomne, it is clear that the security period was not only validated by the Council of Ministers on 14 May, since it was already included in the government agreement. You know the problem felt by the political world as well as by the public: even with a minimum sentence of fifteen years to be executed, life from time to time led to a conditional release too quickly, taking into account the expectations of the victims and public opinion. That is why we have prepared a bill, following recommendations from the Council of State. We received his opinion on September 12. The bill is ready for submission to the House's Justice Committee. The new law provides that acts punishable by a penalty of 30 years and life imprisonment, as well as certain specific offences, such as terrorism or offences against the security of the State, could result in the trial judge fearing that the penalty imposed by the trial will be insufficiently executed and which, therefore, increases the length of the sentence - which is negative, in the end, since it acts under the influence of fear - being able to impose a minimum performance, known as the "security period". I naturally reserve the precise details of the draft to the Committee on Justice, where you are always present and welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u52	Minister, I thank you for your information, particularly timely, since you have told us that the bill came straight to the Council of State in September and that it is likely to be debated shortly in the Justice Committee. Given the particular context of the past few days, it was important that we hear from you at this meeting. I am thinking in particular of the statements made by Marc Dutroux's lawyer. In my view, the rule of law must allow the person who has paid his debt to reintegrate in all the dignity required, but it also means guaranteeing the necessary protection of society as a whole against those who pose a threat. In the face of the most serious crimes, as you have alluded to, the victims, but also the entire population, must be fully assured of the firmness towards the criminals and the intransigence towards those whose place is in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u53	Madam Secretary, for most people, the general practitioner is the first health care professional to be dealt with in the event of health problems. That's the way it's supposed to be. That is why the N-VA and this government have made sure that the healthcare provider is accessible and that people who have a financial difficulty can go to the GP for 1 euro. Most general practitioners also drop the euro. What do we see now? Financial problems often arise when the general practitioner has to do something common as a blood sample. Many patients will then receive an unexpectedly high invoice from that blood collection in the van. We are aware of this problem. Therefore, the N-VA already submitted in 2015 a legislative proposal aimed at ensuring that the GP complies with the agreed maximum rates and that the patient can ensure that all tests such as a blood sample are carried out at the agreed maximum rates. My bill's been there since 2015. Today I have to say that there is no solution and that the legislative proposal has still not been put into practice. Madam Secretary, why hasn't that happened yet? When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u54	Mrs Van Camp, you know that if you submit a bill, you have to keep knocking on the nail. It's a pleasure for you to do the same. There is a solution in the form of a KB on the supplements charged by clinical biology laboratories. This will simply prohibit supplements in a number of cases, for example when the patient is not informed about the fact that supplements can be charged, for a blood test in the context of a genetic examination, for a cervical swab in the framework of a screening study, etc. This was included in the Medicomut agreement and discussed in the consultation model. Agreements were also made on the prohibition of supplements, coupled with the revaluation of certain benefits in kind from anatomopathology such as the evaluation of the swab. We have aligned with another draft decision to adapt the nomenclature of, among other things, the benefits in kind of anatomopathology. The Royal Decree now paves the way: advice IF, consultative budget etc. The publication is for soon. We're at the end of the pipeline. Your question is about the prohibition of supplements that the patient has not been informed in advance by the doctor who takes the blood. I will assist you when you say that the doctor plays an important role in choosing the patient for a lab where they may or may not work together. The doctor must therefore give information to the patient in advance, including this is stated in it, to ensure that the invoice does not present any surprises so that the avoidable costs are not passed on to the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u55	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. What counts for the N-VA fraction is the affordability of medical care. This is a good example of how, with a simple legislative proposal, we can cope with the reduction in the cost of medical care, including current health care, at the general practitioner's office. I'm glad you're hearing it and working on it. I will be much more pleased if it is finally resolved in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u56	Mr President, Minister, there is at least one point on which we should be able to agree: our country faces a huge mobility problem. Each of us experiences it every day. We see this by the state of our tunnels and viaducts. We also see this through the debate on the difficult modernisation of SNCB. What is surreal in our country is that we are aggravating this problem through our fiscal policy through the historical regime of corporate cars. This scheme represents for the State, year after year, two billion euros at the bottom of the line of lost profits, not to mention all indirect costs in terms of pollution, maintenance of roads, medical problems, etc. Two billion euros, half of a RER has calculated the press! It's exorbitant! To correct this error, a minimum of political courage is required, since the current system benefits employees or companies who benefit from it. This system is proving to be unfair to those who do not benefit from it, overly costly and catastrophic for the general well-being of our people. Taxpayers pay for traffic jams and not for a mobility policy! In the absence of courage, on behalf of the government, you have tabled a measure: the cash for car formula, a form of replacement allowance for which all observers agree that it will not solve the problem since the allowance is not sufficiently attractive. It will therefore have no impact on mobility; worse, it will aggravate discrimination by creating different regimes. I am also pleased to hear the opinion of the Council of State. Minister, what is the status of your project? After the OECD recommendations, the observations of the Higher Finance Council, the objections of the Planning Office, when are you going to hear the objections of the social partners, organisations active in the mobility sector? Who will be able to convince you to finally take this problem with his arm-body?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u57	Mr President, Minister, for those who remember it a little more than a year ago, at the end of one of your press conferences following these famous thematic councils, Mr Reynders exclaimed: "Thanks to us, the workers will have 450 net euros per month in addition, with the mobility budget!" More than a year later, these 450 euros are still not there and, obviously, this so-called reform of the tax system for company cars that you intend to transform into a mobility budget is still so nebulous. Now we hear that you are going to propose a mobility allowance project to this Parliament quite quickly. We don't know much about it, except for what we can read about it in the press, where tax advisors already explain how to circumvent this pitfall, namely that people have several company cars and obviously don't want to lose them completely. These people are interested in the cash you're going to offer them and want to keep the other car. How are you going to do it, Minister? We follow you in the idea that it is necessary to reduce the car fleet of company cars, for less pollution, a more fluid mobility, of course. But if you're not able to absorb the tax engineering spaces that will allow some to take cash while keeping a car, we won't have much progress. Minister, we need an answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u58	Mr Laaouej, Mr Dispa, on 28 September last, the Council of Ministers gave its green light for the introduction of the mobility allowance. Through this measure, we want to offer the possibility for workers who now benefit from a "car pay" to exchange this car for money that they can spend on other modes of transport. In other words:cash for car. This fiscally advantageous alternative to the company vehicle benefits mobility and the environment. In order to qualify for a mobility allowance, both the employer and the worker must meet certain conditions, three of which are very important: the catalogue value of the vehicle exchanged; whether or not a fuel card is used; whether or not the worker pays a contribution for own use. The deductibility of the mobility allowance in the employee's head is aligned with the percentage of the vehicle exchanged and therefore directly depends on the CO2 emission rate. This is called an ecological correction, aimed at encouraging employers to exchange the most polluting cars. Mobility allowance is a free choice which has no obligation for both the worker and the employer. I would like once again to stress the budgetary neutrality set by the government, both for the worker and for the employer and for the authorities. Historically, the tax benefits for corporate vehicles have developed as a result of too high a burden on employment and work, as everyone knows. This government reduces the burden on labour, mainly thanks to the tax shift. Through the introduction of the mobility allowance, we offer workers and employers more choice between different forms of transport. Mobility allowance is a first incentive, but an important incentive, towards more freedom of choice and towards taxation that takes more account of the consequences for mobility and the environment. Finally, I want to point out that the measure will be evaluated after a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u59	Minister, the least we can say is that you are consistent. The elements of your answer, apart from perhaps the announcement of an evaluation after a year, correspond to what your colleague Mr Vandeput said on your behalf here in July. With this consistency, we will certainly retain our unenviable place in the leading pack of European countries, both in terms of car congestion and in terms of tax advantages for company cars. The measure you have just presented, again, is not up to the stakes. It clearly betrays a lack of political courage. It takes political courage to take the problem in all its dimensions. All in all, you make it look like you're pretending to be dealing with the problem. "An ecological correction," you say. But who can believe it? I will invite you, if you have a little time, or if you want to think about alternative proposals, to take note of the proposal put forward by the CDH, which really aims to offer workers an alternative, with a range of tools at their disposal, far beyond the derisory allowance that you are going to offer them through this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u60	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the announcement effect of Mr Reynders, which is 450 euros a month more for workers, is finally another baudrouch that is deflating. This will not be the reality of the decisions you make. We'll be very far from it. Once again, you have abused public opinion and the unfortunate credulity of workers. This is more and more the case. It is time, Minister, to come with serious issues and have a credible and coherent mobility policy. You claim to be acting in favour of mobility, but at the same time you are definancing the SNCB by EUR 3 billion, I regret to have to say that, but nothing is less serious than that, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u61	Minister, among the products that Belgians like to consume the most, you know that there is bread, beer and, when it is hot, ice cream. Tests have shown that these three products contain glyphosate. This means that in our daily life, we are confronted with the presence of this substance in foods when it should not be there. On 25 October, Belgium will have to take a position on the European Commission's proposal to renew the authorisation of glyphosate. I would obviously like to know Belgium's position at this meeting of the Standing Committee. Before you give me your answer, I would just like to quote a few arguments. When we worked on this issue with Minister Borsus, we have repeatedly highlighted with my colleague, Anne Dedry, the disturbing elements: the European Food Safety Authority's request for independence, the European Food Safety Authority's report on its assessment of copied and glued copies, Monsanto's possession of documents according to which the substance was carcinogenic and which the company hid, as before it did the asbestos lobby and the tobacco lobby, the use of glyphosate in Belgium to spray seeds and fruit, whereas this is prohibited by the European Union regulation (it is not surprising that there are some in the food), demonstrated by a recent Dutch study that this substance was not only in the land but also in the water and the air, which obviously increases the risk of exposure. Finally, a study recently carried out by the Pesticide Action Network, the NAP, shows that by 2020 alternatives could be developed and no longer used. Your colleague, Minister Borsus, said in June that he would stop and ban the marketing of glyphosate from 2018 onwards. What will be Belgium's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u62	As you know, as far as food security is concerned, we have no right to play arson. Food is too important for health to afford to take risks. And when doubts arise, it is the duty of the government to try to protect the population by applying the precautionary principle. In this case, the federal government must stop ignoring the many warning signals related to glyphosate. Since it was classified as a probable carcinogen by the UN's International Cancer Centre, many citizens have been concerned and ask to be protected from the risks associated with this substance, which can be found in Monsanto's Roundup. Our fellow citizens are right to worry, especially since the Monsanto Papers scandal revealed that the American firm had paid scientists to explain that glyphosate is not carcinogenic. The very serious newspaper Le Monde was also the subject of a slanderous campaign financed by Monsanto to attack scientists highlighting the dangerousness of the Roundup. What else does it take to apply the precautionary principle and vote in favour of banning glyphosate on European territory? A simple question requires a clear answer. On 25 October, Member States will decide on the authorisation of glyphosate in Europe. Will Belgium vote in favour or against?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u63	Mrs Gerkens, Mr Senesael, thank you for your question. This is a subject that I am particularly attentive to. As we know, glyphosate is a plant protection product used in particular by the agricultural sector. Its active substances are particularly present in certain herbicides. The agricultural sector is now highly dependent on this product because it is the only total systemic substance available for weed removal. This product is subject to scientific controversy related to the risk of residues on treated crops. Indeed, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) consider glyphosate to be toxic at a certain dose but not carcinogenic. However, as you have indicated, the WHO International Research Centre is classifying it as likely to be carcinogenic. I present here the elements of the scientific controversy thus presented. On the other hand, as you said, the other controversy, that of the Monsanto Papers is obviously something that puts a little bit of trouble back on this file. It is therefore not surprising to see a form of mobilization, even popular. It cannot be ignored that 1.3 million people have signed a document on the issue of glyphosate, asking for more transparency, more rigour, etc. It is clear that we need to be extremely attentive to all these elements. Mr. Senesael, you were talking about duty. We have a duty to position ourselves calmly and rigorously. Today, however, I see that there are certain doubts. You said that there is no consensus at European level. But you know that there must be no consensus and that the decision will be taken by qualified majority. Today, some doubt that the Commission's proposal is slipping over. I would therefore really like to determine the Belgian position in a calm and rigorous manner. In this context, I will seek clarification from the European Commission. In order to do so, I have formally transmitted questions concerning the choice of time limit, the duration of renewal and the fact that at this stage the European Commission's proposal does not involve an approach aimed at seeking alternative methods. I await the response of the European Commission. It will allow us to complete the investigation of the case and to determine the Belgian position in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u64	What do you expect and what do you really need to make your decision? You have in front of you repeated evidence of document fraud, deceit on the part of researchers and politicians through these studies poorly conducted and supported by Monsanto. We forget that the same thing was done with tobacco and asbestos. I repeat, we are in exactly the same process: we get caught by an economic lobby. To say to citizens that we prefer to keep the doubt by supporting Monsanto rather than supporting health is unacceptable. I would point out that more than one million citizens have signed a European petition calling for this product to be stopped. This must force you to do more. You, the States and you, the Commission and the European Parliament must take this into account. You repeat you need additional elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u65	I am asking the European Commission about a number of things...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u66	Ask the European Commission until the 25th for more information! Nevertheless, your decision must be made today. Your MEP in the European Parliament voted with the European Greens and Socialists to adopt a resolution that will prohibit glyphosate on European soil. It is absolutely necessary that the decision be taken on 25 October. We must not accept the point once again, because the European Commission sees the problems coming. The moratorium runs until 15 December. Our decision must be made before that date. By 2020, we'll be able to get out of it. Check out the latest PAN study whose results have been known for a week!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. When a substance such as glyphosate is considered a probable carcinogen, the government has a duty to protect the population. As far as I know, people's health is not the new game of reality TV! Have you been unable to hear and understand for months now – with the petition circulating throughout Europe – the people's legitimate demands for another food model, with fewer chemicals harmful to health and the environment? To develop this new food model, farmers are on the front line. I come from a small commune where there are many farmers. When I ask for a ban on glyphosate, I think above all about their health. Instead of maintaining glyphosate, you'd better help farmers develop non-harmful alternatives. It is your duty as Minister of Agriculture!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, access to the labour market for young people is conditional on their choice of education. A recent survey conducted by Dedicated Research confirms a fact that we probably all expect: almost one in five (18%) students did not receive the training they wanted. Sometimes it has been dissuaded by the family environment. In other cases, he was denied access to the sector by the training institution. Moreover, it seems that girls are more often faced with such discrimination – conscious or not. Although we see some advances in attitudes – as evidenced by the clothing chains, which now offer unisex outfits for children – stereotypes still have a hard life: from the catalogue of toys, to sports activities, to the societal and family environment, to the choice of studies. Yet the rules are clear. With regard to access to the labour market, any form of discrimination is simply prohibited, and there are many regulations to this end, whether it be ILO Convention 111 or CTC No. 38. Despite these provisions, it is evident that this type of discrimination occurs upstream, either in the form of social pressure that knowingly or not influences the choice of students, or more clearly in the form of a simple denial of access to training on the grounds of sex. Madam Secretary of State, in the light of this study, speaking of equal opportunities seems to me to be somewhat compromised. Therefore, I would like you to tell me today whether it is true that the democratic society in which we live is directing one in five people towards a private life that they or they have not deliberately chosen. Are you not afraid that the restriction in terms of equal opportunities in access to training is not a brake or, at the very least, has an impact on the labour market? Finally, what do you intend to do, given your skills, to combat these stereotypes that persist in the world of education?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Galant, I would first like to congratulate you on your mandate as a Member of Parliament and your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u70	It was his Maiden speech. (Applause)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u71	It is quite correct to say that gender stereotypes influence the choice of educational channels and thus the career. The result is that too many women find themselves in less socially and economically valued sectors. Education and training are the powers of the Länder. As Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, I would like to briefly address the fight against stereotypes, as we do. My policy cell is currently working out the federal action plan "Gender at work" based on the analysis of civil society input at the end of 2016, for which I work together with Minister Peeters. The aim of the plan is to come up with a series of measures around five main lines. The first is about the reconciliation of work and private life, the second is about combating the pay gap, the third is about combating gender discrimination in the labour market, the fourth is about promoting balanced representation in economic decision-making and the fifth is about deconstructing sexist stereotypes. At the beginning of 2018 we would go to the government with the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I believe that if we want equal opportunities for all, we must tackle the roots of these stereotypes from early childhood, in the family core and in the recreation classes. I also invite you not to forget the teaching and training aspect of people's lives and to work together with the ministers of the federated entities responsible for education and training, in order to lay the foundations for equal treatment for all in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u73	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u74	By letter of 13 October 2017, the Head of the King's Cabinet sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of our Assembly's work. By letter dated 13 October 2017, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u75	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 October 2017, I propose that you return the following draft laws to the Committee for Home Affairs, General Affairs and Public Administration: - the draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens and the Law of 12 January 2007 on the reception of asylum seekers and certain other categories of aliens, Nos 2548/1 to 4. - the draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, Nos 2549/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 October 2017, I propose that the following bills be referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service: - the draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens and the Act of 12 January 2007 on the reception of asylum seekers and certain other categories of aliens, Nos. 2548/1 to 4. - the draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, Nos. 2549/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u76	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 October 2017, I propose to register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Mr Francis Delpérée, Peter De Roover, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael and Philippe Pivin) amending the law of 20 July 1990 on provisional detention in respect of the period, Nos 2612/1 to 5. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 October 2017, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Ms Meryame Kitir and MM. Francis Delperée, Peter De Roover, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael and Philippe Pivin) amending the Act of 20 July 1990 on preventive detention with regard to the time limit, Nos. 2612/1 to 5. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u77	The rapporteur was Mrs Grovonius, who referred to her written report. The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2616/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2616/3) The draft law contains 89 articles. The bill has 89 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u80	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Koen Metsu, Brecht Vermeulen, Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Ms Lahaye-Battheu. It shall refer to its written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u82	Mr President, we have discovered this bill in committee. We believe that it is of some interest and we will support it. It responds to a problem that the mayors encounter in the relief areas. The difficulty in setting up these structures stems from the size of the structures. Some relief zones sometimes cover a territory of more than 30 communes, so police councils must be convened, which must have a majority of mayors. Some areas have sometimes had difficulties in obtaining a quorum, which has adversely affected the implementation of civil security reform. For this reason, we will support the proposal of our colleague Koen Metsu, whose aim is to be able to take decisions remotely on virtual advice, with the possibility of an electronic vote for certain bodies. I would also like to point out that we have tabled a bill, which will be taken into consideration today, the aim of which is to allow the mayors to be represented by an alderman in the bodies of a relief zone council, for example, which is not permitted by the law at present. This proposal is quite complementary to that of our colleague from the N-VA. We will support his proposal and hope that he will support our proposal with a large majority. This is not an exchange, it is a matter of common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u83	Mr President, I do believe that this proposal and the one just announced by our distinguished colleague Mr Thiébaut are absolutely complementary. When it set up the rescue zones, the legislator forgot the difficulty of bringing together the mayors of up to 28 communes, or even more, for example in the province of Luxembourg. The proposal tabled by Mr Metsu, as well as the proposal to be tabled by Mr Thiébaut, which I had committed myself to co-sign in the Committee on the Interior, can be both successful, because they are intended to facilitate the holding of meetings. The failure to hold meetings results in increased burdens and brakes. The resulting lack of decisions can be extremely sensitive to the safety of fire areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u84	Mr President, once again it has been shown that there is absolutely very constructive cooperation within the Committee on the Interior. This proposal is about the zoning college, certainly not about the zoning council, because we all know that the zoning council is public. That is where we cannot simply meet electronically. We really are on the lines of the zoning college, in which we have to be able to make or have decisions quickly, for example when it comes to recruitment. It is crazy that we have to meet in person to make certain simple decisions. I am therefore pleased that the proposal was adopted unanimously in committee. The proposal tabled by Mr Thiébaut and Mr Flahaux is certainly subject to discussion. It's a little wider, it's also about the Zone Council. I myself belong to a assisted area of 21 municipalities. The number of times all 21 mayors were present is very limited. We can only encourage this proposal. We must also study it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u85	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2269/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2269/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Both rapporteurs, Ms Ben Hamou and Mr Thiébaut, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u89	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an important bill here. Let me first refer to the coalition agreement. It had already agreed that defining the core tasks of the integrated police was an important and necessary task. After the police reform, it soon became clear that many non-operational and administrative tasks had an impact on the basic functionality of operational staff. A first step was already taken in 2006. There was then a circular which issued a number of directives aimed at alleviating and simplifying different administrative tasks of the police. They went one step further in 2013. Then it was decided to optimize the federal police for the benefit of the judicial districts. There was a better service to the local police and a rationalisation and simplification of organisational structures. Despite these steps, social evolution has led to the police's task package continuing to grow while capacity remains almost unchanged. Minister, since your arrival, your cabinet has made a thorough analysis of what the central tasks of the police are and what tasks can be postponed. Twenty yards have been identified where rationalization is now under way. The present draft law aims to establish the Directorate for Monitoring and Protection, DAB. This is a very important step. Several channels have been reporting a certain capacity shortage to the integrated police for some time. We must not go too far in finding the causes. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of prison strikes, increased threats of terrorism and accidents at work following aggression against policemen. We hope that the newly created management will bring some relief here. A number of tasks, such as the transfer to courts or courts, the static monitoring of certain buildings, will be entrusted to security assistants or security agents by this draft law. The Executive Board will be composed of members of the Security Corps, a number of military personnel, a number of staff of Brussels Airport Company. We are talking about about about 1 600 extra full-time equivalents. The service will be under the federal police because we hope for a certain relief for the local police zones. We have also held hearings on this subject. A number of concerns were raised during these hearings, but it also emerged that a number of issues, such as the Staff Regulations, still need to be dealt with. That too remains to be seen. I believe that this bill will ensure efficiency in our local police services. We are looking forward to that and will therefore support this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, as we have said in committee, my group is not opposed in principle to the creation of this new DAB unit, all the more so as it opens a door to a number of trained and competent people to remain in the service of the State, such as, for example, the military at the end of a short career. As you also know, we are not in favour of the presence of the military on the street. We believe that the work they do today should be done by police officers. However, we can pay tribute to the work that has been done by the men in the field and that has been very useful until today. Your project opens up opportunities for resolving a recurring problem of police areas that are issues related to the transfer of detainees, police from courts and courts. In a way, it also makes it possible to close the doors in terms of the privatization of police tasks that you had opened with your previous project dictated by the private security sector. That's our opinion; I know you don't share it. However, the project as presented to us leaves us sceptical about more than one point. The first concerns the very nature of the tasks assigned to this new corps. It will be recalled that during the first presentation of this unit, already in 2015, it was suggested that it was intended to restore to the civilian law enforcement forces the missions that justified the deployment of the military on the streets. It is clear that this is not really on the agenda in this final version because it will take some time to implement it. The second is a question of status. According to our information, social dialogue with the various actors is difficult to move forward. As far as the security corps of the Justice FPS is concerned, the trade unions have even slammed the door to negotiations at the end of the first meeting, we are told. These are grounds for real concern about working conditions and, eventually, the structuring of the police. The third concerns the recruitment and training of future officers, doubts that you are not convincingly dispelling and that continue to worry local police areas about the reality of the workload in compensation for deficiencies at the federal level. As with other files managed by your government, too often, we decide first and then discuss. As a result, there is too little room for genuine dialogue, let alone negotiations. That is, in essence, what will motivate my group to abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u91	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we can only appreciate the initiative that has been taken to create the DAB within the police structure. This should enable a more effective and appropriate implementation of police capacity, on the one hand, by bringing together the missions carried out so far by bodies with separate departments and, on the other hand, by making the best use of the skills of the officials who are intended to integrate this new direction. As a result, other police officers are focused on tasks that are more closely related to their own and entire competencies. Our political training already stated in its 2014-2019 parliamentary programme that one of the fundamental priorities is "to enable police officers to focus more on their priorities in the service of citizens, to clarify the role of public and private security actors, in order to improve partnerships, to free police services from certain administrative or even operational tasks, in order to enable them to focus on the key tasks to be redefined by the government". Ladies and gentlemen, we can only welcome the fact that this point of the government agreement is being implemented, especially since it is known that the current functioning of the security corps is not optimal for several reasons, mainly reasons of status and capacity. Often the federal police, as well as the local police, are asked to solve the difficulties encountered. That is the crux of the problem. Let us now hear ending these dysfunctions is a very good thing! In concrete terms, the creation of the Directorate of Security can solve this problem. We can only encourage him. Minister, as part of the implementation of the Act, two key issues will need to be kept under review. First, to be able to give the DAB the means of its ambitions. It is indeed necessary for us, with the help of these means, to be able to implement the division of labour which is one of your objectives. Secondly, it will be necessary to look after the staff because the aim is to ensure that the use of the local police remains the exception, or becomes the exception again. It is therefore not necessary for a shortage of staff within the DAB to increase the workload of local police areas, bearing in mind that a subsidiary availability should be maintained at the local level and that it should be continued. It is therefore essential to ensure that the framework is provided quickly and fully. With regard to the criteria for selecting the military, the Minister of Defence was able to remove the questions that we had in committee on this matter. We believe that the figures for the target groups that can be transferred can be achieved without too much difficulty. The DAB will represent an opportunity for many military personnel because it will provide them with additional career opportunities within the police. The creation of the new management satisfies us, as the MR Group is convinced of the relevance of such a rationalisation of human and material resources. Mr Minister, thank you and your colleagues in Defence and Justice, who have explained a number of points in committee. We confirm to you that it is with satisfaction that we will support this bill, which is designed to rebalance the tasks assigned to each and which will undoubtedly have a positive influence on the service our police forces offer to all Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u92	Mr President, Minister, the draft that you have put forward and which we have discussed in depth in committee represents a very important step in the implementation of the concrete measures in the context of the key tasks debate on the police forces that we started at the beginning of this legislature. Over the years, police forces have been tasked with perhaps a somewhat disrespectful statement of improper police duties. In this context, the government has decided to refocus these improper tasks and to take a number of measures. In committee and in plenary, we have already dealt with the law on private and special security services. Indeed, some of these improper tasks can also be carried out in cooperation with private partners. In other cases, these tasks can only be entrusted to public staff because they require certain powers. We heard in the hearing that a number of services carried out certain monitoring tasks within the government. For example, the security corps of the Justice Department was responsible for the transport of prisoners and the surveillance of the judicial buildings. That was good, but not all judicial services could make use of it. In reality, it was often the larger courthouses these people could use. The key task debate highlighted the great burden on the smaller police areas, as we have many in this country, with courthouses on their territory, often without additional support. Our group is convinced that the draft you have tabled contains a good measure, namely bringing together the various departments under a central management and with a uniform statute, using the status of police officers. Minister, it was unique to receive your two fellow ministers on a draft in our committee. The members of that new Executive Board will also be part of the operational framework of the integrated police services. We believe that this will also give the future staff much more clarity and certainty about their statutory future. I will not talk about the various services that will be covered. The colleague has already done so. We have heard in committee that this is a capacity of 1 600 full-time equivalents. You yourself state that the entry into force of that corps will take place at different stages. You know our concerns about this new force. In particular, they are counting on the transfer of defence personnel in a particular statute. The outflow of those first batch of persons will not take place until 2021. That will therefore take a number of years to come. We are counting on the reinforcement of the new corps to be carried out through external recruitments. In addition, the new management should reduce the burden of improper police tasks for all police forces. Both federal and local police areas are faced with improper police tasks, for example by the presence of courthouses or prison institutions that have municipalities on their territory. It concerns in particular those areas which, after the adoption of the KUL standard, have received such institutions on their territory and are not adequately funded in the KUL standard system. We support this bill, Minister. We hope for a very fast and above all a full operational capacity of the corps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u93	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, as we argued during committee debates and also during hearings, this bill is important. In principle, we are not opposed to the creation of a new DAB division within the police. It is wise that certain functions, now occupied by other teams in other sectors - the military, Brussels Airport inspectors, etc. - be regrouped within the police, allowing these staff to pursue and benefit from new career opportunities. That makes sense. In principle, this project is moving in the right direction. I want to go back to some of the points that we found important in this bill. The first concerns everything relating to the text itself, which is a framework, as other colleagues have pointed out. Many conditions of work, transfer, a whole range of staff are not detailed and are referred to royal decrees and ongoing negotiations with trade unions. Apart from the justice staff and unless I'm mistaken, the other negotiations are still at a standstill or have just begun. It is therefore difficult for us to express our views without knowing the outcome of these negotiations. All the more so since we heard during the hearings that the unions still expressed legitimate fears about a whole series of points. Today, we are voting for a framework that is not detailed. As a result, when we talk about the transfer of staff, in our view, working conditions are essential, it is difficult to give us a precise opinion. Minister, the second point we are concerned about is the impact that this reform could have on the work of the military and their presence on the streets. We are not in favour of the structural presence of soldiers on the street. You specified that your goal was to reduce this presence to even stop it if we ever went to threat level 2. But then, the threat levels should be addressed, and this is another debate that we have held in part in the committee of inquiry. That being said, you have confirmed that there is no link between this reform and the potential decrease in the number of soldiers on the street. We take note of this, but it is an important point for us. Of our exchanges in committee, I also noted that, at the level of threat unchanged, your goal was to reduce the number of soldiers on the streets and instead to conduct mixed patrols. This goes in the direction we prefer, even if it is very slowly. But there is no link between this bill creating the DAB and the presence of the military on the street. I wanted to come back to one last point. I have already insisted at length in committee and during the hearings on the Brussels Airport inspectors. As you know - I have also repeated on several occasions - the safety of our national airport is a particularly important issue, which has been discussed at length in the Committee of Inquiry following the attacks of 22 March, of which I am also a member. Since the privatisation of the Brussels-National airport, inspectors working at the airport have been subject to a conflict of interest. They are employed at the airport, which is a private structure. They must report on the safety of their own employer through audits and a range of mechanisms. We can see directly where the conflict of interest is. It is necessarily difficult to change the private structure that he must judge and who is his employer, who pays him. You can see where the bastard hurts. This is one of the recommendations of the report of the Committee of Inquiry. I also talked about it during the auditions. The Committee of Inquiry, in its safety section 3, recommends that inspectors at Brussels-National airport be managed by a public dome. Somewhere, no matter what the case is, as long as it's public. Currently, 105 people are working at the Brussels-National Airport Inspection. Your services estimate that more or less 68 people will be transferred to the DAB and switch from a private dome to a public dome. We see this in a positive light. This partly responds to the recommendation of the Board of Inquiry. If 68 inspectors come to the DAB, 37 inspectors will stay in Brussels-National. There remains a question mark on their future. That was said during the hearings. Their current role does not correspond to the function described by the DAB, i.e. the security of perimeters and buildings. There is some logic that they should not be transferred to the future DAB. But we have to find a solution, whether it comes from you or from the Minister for Mobility - the logic is that it should be taken over by DGTA. It is essential that all airport inspectors should be part of a public structure. We will also ask for this system to apply to regional airports. This is a debate that we have not yet had the opportunity to have, but for Brussels Airport, all inspectors must be transferred to a public dome, as recommended by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry following the attacks of 22 March. I want to insist strongly because it is important to go to the end of this work. Because of these three points and, in particular, the fact that the legibility of working conditions is not yet complete, if we agree with the principle, my group will abstain because we want to see how far the negotiations and the details which still have to be fixed by royal decrees will go.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u94	Mr. Chair, like my colleagues, my group recognizes that this bill is of some interest. In any case, the actors on the ground are really waiting for a solution. For months, police and military services have been overburdened and need reinforcements as quickly as possible. My colleague Georges Dallemagne has also tabled a motion for a resolution on the deployment of military personnel on the streets, on the basis of the fact that this was not a long-term structural solution to ensure the necessary monitoring and protection of sensitive sites. A priori, this bill tends to address the immediate problem of police capacity, which could reinject the resources released into the core police missions. That is what we are talking about today. This reorganization can only be successful if it effectively improves the situation on the ground. This text therefore brings about a multitude of technical and terminological changes, but it remains parsimonious as to the methods of execution which are little, if at all, precise. These inaccuracies have brought many questions to the committee, which you have taken care to answer, and I thank you for that. But some still leave us dubious. My colleague Thiébaut has recalled some of these inaccuracies. Several key points are still under negotiation or will have to be set out in implementing orders. At this point, for us, these are still as many uncertainties. I would like to cite one example: the question of the location of the service and in particular the administrative address of the agents of this new department. In committee, you told me that the agents were leaving their homes to go directly to their place of work. But there is still the problem of carrying and transporting the weapons of these agents. How are they going to do that? We have not received a concrete response on this subject. I assume that this will be defined in the royal decree, but we remain with this uncertainty. Similarly, for the organisation of the work of these colleagues, we remain unanswered. Another point leaves us very dubious: funding. We talked about it in committee, you mentioned a budget of EUR 75 million, of which EUR 22 million will come from the Department of Justice. Seventy-five million euros may already appear a lot, but will that be enough to create this new department, which will have 1,600 agents? I am not alone in asking myself this question, since it was also raised by the Free Trade Union of the Public Service, which remained unanswered on your part. The amount of EUR 22 million is a real concern for us, because we find it deeply regrettable to deprive the Department of Justice of this amount, when it is already suffering from underfunding. These are some examples I wanted to mention! From a constructive point of view - which is ours, as you know - it would seem appropriate for you to offer the workers concerned guarantees that they will continue to consult in full transparency. In this regard, we would like to ask you to hold a short-term exchange of views in the coming weeks to assess and assess the progress made in the implementation of this new service, since many decisions will be taken shortly. For all these reasons, we will maintain our abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u95	Minister, I have been following carefully the various stages of the development of this bill, which aims to create a unit in a new direction within the federal police force. We welcome the entry into force of this measure, which is contained in your government agreement. We are aware of the imperative nature of optimising existing services by bringing them together within the same unit, not only because of the attacks, but also - more structurally - so as to free up front police tasks. I will therefore vote in favour of this bill and give my confidence in the establishment of this direction, given the many royal orders and protocols that will come. The safety of our fellow citizens is paramount. Nevertheless, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the end of the nineties, the airport and railway police had already been absorbed by the gendarmerie just before it joined the federal police. Every twenty years we should not be confronted with a phenomenon of a merger of police entities that would depend on private companies. That is what we are witnessing at the Brussels Airport Company.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u96	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your input, today in plenary and for the discussions we have had in committee. In my opinion, it was a good, rich debate in which we listened to each other and tried to streamline things so that everyone can find themselves in the text before us. I would also like to express my thanks to my two fellow Members, Mr Geens and Mr Vandeput, for their cooperation in the drafting of this draft law. I believe that we can fill in an important gap in our safety apparatus. As far as the various points that are being addressed by colleagues are concerned, I think that most of these comments have been dealt with in committee. So I'm not going to talk to them all. There are, however, a few aspects which should be recalled in plenary session. Mr Thiébaut, as regards the recruitment and the doubt you have expressed about the easing of the tasks of the local police, this is the aim of setting up this directorate. It's true that we're going to transfer capabilities to the Justice Security Corps, but I realize that this capability is certainly not enough. So we have to increase it. To do this, we use the various internal recruitment channels of the public service, as well as external recruitment. The posts are in my opinion attractive. The idea is to complement this capacity and thus solve the problem of the workload of the local police. According to me, almost 400 full-time equivalents are now responsible for the various areas of the local police force. We can thus gain in capacity through this security body. I undertake to complete it within the prescribed time limit. That means we're going to work in two waves. The first concerns the four largest springs with courthouses and prisons. It will be carried out in the first part of 2018. The second wave will have to be completed before January 2019. It's a challenge I'm facing. We'll get to it. Mr Pivin, the resources are included in the budget. The Minister of Budget is with us. She can confirm that. We work as a team. New means are foreseen. They come from the budget, but other means are transferred from the budget, for example, from Justice to the police, because one takes up his duties and closes the holes identified in this organization. It was therefore ensured that it was given the means to achieve the objectives. Mrs Heeren, you are right to say that it is too early for the military influx of BDL'ers, so soldiers with a limited term statute. That's right, you're right. In any case, the recruitment to the Defence Department of candidates for the BDL Statute will indicate that they still have opportunities in the security apparatus after the short career of eight years, i.e. in the corps. In this way, we can make the short career at Defense attractive, but you are right, that is only in 2020 or 2021. Moreover, I do not need to remind you that the Secretary of Defense is now trying to rejuvenate the staff of Defense. In this light, from now on we expect an annual transfer of some 150 soldiers, not under the BDL Statute, who are in the apparatus and motivated to make the switch, so that young people can be recruited. So it's actually two channels of recruitment from the Defense Department. Mr Vanden Burre, this has been discussed. I would just like to correct a small mistake among the elements you mentioned: the organisation of this corps will reduce the number of soldiers on the street by 200 units. No more. I'm very frank. This has an influence on the number of soldiers on the street, but it is limited. You also talked about the patrol operation, but that has yet another influence. As far as Brussels Airport Company (LAC) is concerned, the fate of the 30 or 40 people who remain there is indeed an ideological debate. But, for me, they have the same status as private guard services. There is also a legislative framework for this. Two-thirds of the capacity has been reviewed, depending on your point of view. For the last third, it will be necessary to see how things are going, but a solution has already been found to a large extent. Mrs. Poncelet, I don't understand. You say that the €75 million budgeted would not be enough to maintain a capacity of 1,600 units. I don't know how you do your calculations, but even if we have 35,000 euros of annual salary per person, I think the budget will really be enough to achieve the goals. You are asking me to continue the consultations constructively. It's in my nature. We will do so in such a way as to provide a solution for the various stakeholders: LAC, Justice or the military. You're asking me to arrange an information meeting. I will not, but if the Committee on the Interior invites me to explain everything, I will be at its disposal. Mr Carcaci, when you talk about merging different police services, we're almost there. Without opening the debate, I think we can still think about what we can do about Securail within SNCB. I will not take a position today but think that this deserves reflection. I'll give you one last example. As far as the security corps within the justice system is concerned, I do not understand how such a decision could be made. I believe that this type of isolated body is not a good solution and that it must be brought together in a large organization, which will be much more flexible in terms of the ability to mobilise during peaks of work. Mr President, I think I have made the most important points. I would once again like to thank my fellow Members for the rich debate we have had on this subject. After the vote, I will try with great conviction to put the corps into practice as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u97	Mr President, Minister, I would like to add something to the debate on Brussels Airport inspectors. You say this is an ideological choice. As you know, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry unanimously voted on all these recommendations, including our respective political groups. We will discuss this further next week. I quote Recommendation 127, page 469 of the third part of the report of the Committee of Inquiry: "The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry recommends that airport inspectors be directed by the public authority, regardless of their status and the structure that employs them." I would like this recommendation to be put into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u98	Mr Vanden Burre, I fully agree. But in order for the recommendations to be voted unanimously in the House, each party had to make its contribution. It was important that they were. However, this does not mean that there are yet some differences. To have unanimity on the recommendations is of enormous value.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u99	Minister, thank you for all your clarifications. You are committed to a number of recruitments. You've set goals. I shall be sure to check whether you will speak within the time limits set. If that is the case, it will be a good start.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u100	Mr President, I come back to the budget because the minister asked me about it. When considering the budget for a new service, it is necessary to take into account staff but also equipment, vehicles, buildings. It is a question which, in my opinion, still has its meaning. I wanted to make it clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u101	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u102	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2647/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2647/4) The draft law has 56 articles. The bill has 56 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u103	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Van Peteghem, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u105	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2604/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2604/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u107	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u108	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u109	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2644/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2644/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Luykx and Mr Flahaux, who refer to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u112	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2667/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2667/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u114	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Meryame Kitir, Francis Delpérée, Peter De Roover, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, Philippe Pivin. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must not recall here that the fight against terrorism has become one of our priorities and that the security of our citizens, the first of our freedoms, is also a priority. Following the events in Verviers in January 2015 and the Paris attacks in November of the same year, the federal government announced 30 measures. Among these 30 measures is the extension of the time limit for police custody. In the MR Group, of course, we are pleased that this measure has finally been able to reach an agreement and, consequently, cooperation between the parties of the majority, but also the opposition, on this issue. This allowed for the filing of a text co-signed by six parties, but supported more widely. The time limit for police custody will now be 48 hours for all offences. We were the last European country, with Romania, to have only a 24-hour period of police custody. It is not necessary to recall that our neighbours have much longer deadlines than at home, particularly in the case of a terrorist-related case. In the context of the terrorist threat we know, 24 hours are obviously not enough. The actors in the field have reminded us that they are regularly confronted with increasingly complex investigations. Colleagues, the revision of section 12 of the Constitution was already voted by our Parliament on 20 July and by the Senate on 10 October. Today, as a result of this revision and in order to finally make the measure operational, it is necessary to amend the Act of 20 July 1990 on preventive detention, as regards the time limit, but also the Acts of 5 August 1992 on the police function, of 19 December 2003 on the European arrest warrant and of 7 July 1969 on the time during which searches, house visits or arrests cannot be carried out. The loop will be closed with the vote on these adaptations. These are of course terminological adjustments, but this is above all an opportunity to strengthen the arsenal at our disposal, so that Belgium is no longer lagging behind in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u117	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, just before the summer recess on 20 July, we voted by a very large majority in plenary to amend Article 12 of the Constitution. Last week, the Senate also gave its blessing on the change. The amendment of the Constitution means that the constitutional maximum time limit for arrest for all crimes is extended from 24 to 48 hours, but also that there will be a lock that will prevent that period from being extended, either by ordinary law or by a judicial decision. As a result of the constitutional change, some ordinary laws also need to be amended. That is precisely the intention of the legislative proposal before us today. The amendments to that ordinary law consist of the deletion of the existing possibility of a one-off extension of the detention period by the court. After all, we have clearly chosen that the maximum time limit for arrest for all crimes is 48 hours and that this guarantee is included in the Constitution, so that it can no longer be circumvented by ordinary law. The protection of the right to freedom is so fundamental that it is important for it to be incorporated into the Constitution, thus requiring a special majority to amend it. That is a much healthier situation than today where there was a ceiling in the Constitution, but at the same time an exception in an ordinary law. Of course, the amendment also covers the number of hours, from 24 to 48, and some articles of law and terminological clarifications. On this occasion, it was important to clarify some concepts and make a clear distinction between arrest and arrest. From now on, therefore, it will be clear that the deprivation of liberty of a suspect of criminal offences marks the start of the arrest period of up to 48 hours. Then the prosecution can ask for an arrest order or release the defendant. If the defendant is apprehended, then from then on he will be granted the statute of suspicion. Ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of the legislative proposal, the extension of the time limit for arrest to 48 hours can be effective and implemented on the ground. On behalf of my group, therefore, I am pleased that we are giving the security people an additional instrument that they have been asking for for a long time, not only in terrorist cases, but also in other areas. It is a pity that in the end it took so long to achieve it, because some held on to a 72-hour symbol of terror rather than opting fully for efficiency. Today, however, I remember in particular that the longer term of 48 hours can soon be applied on the ground and we have achieved a significant breakthrough in security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u118	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u119	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2612/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2612/5) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the law of 20 July 1990 on pre-trial detention, the law of 7 June 1969 determining the time during which no search, search or arrest may be carried out, the law of 5 August 1992 on police officers and the law of 19 December 2003 on the European arrest warrant.' The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Act of 20 July 1990 on preventive detention, the Act of 7 June 1969 setting out the period during which searches, house visits or arrests may not be carried out, the Act of 5 August 1992 on the police function and the Act of 19 December 2003 on the European arrest warrant". The bill has 31 articles. The bill has 31 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u120	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u121	The Government requested urgent treatment pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law ratifying the royal decrees adopted pursuant to the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, No. 274/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill confirming the royal orders made under the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines, No. 2704/1, was tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the Minister to justify the government's request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u122	Mr.President, the bill provides for the confirmation, before January 1, 2018, of two royal orders that, failing that, would be deemed not to have had effect, thereby jeopardizing the federal assessment. That is why the government is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u123	I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u124	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 October 2017, I also propose the legislative proposal (Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mrs Karolien Grosemans and Mr Veli Yüksel, Hendrik Bogaert, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Dirk Van Mechelen and Tim Vandenput) amending various provisions concerning the promotion of the military, No. 2711/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u125	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 October 2017, I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (Mrs.Peter Buysrogge, Karolien Grosemans and MM. Veli Yüksel, Hendrik Bogaert, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Dirk Van Mechelen and Tim Vandenput) amending various provisions relating to the advancement of military personnel, No. 2711/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u126	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u127	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u128	Mr President, there are a lot of good things in this draft law, and it would be bad if that were not the case, but some of the articles are unacceptable to us. I am talking about Articles 76 and 83, which greatly ease the language requirements for train drivers. Article 83 aims to ensure that, contrary to the current rules, the driver of the train must have knowledge of the language prescribed by the infrastructure manager concerned, he or she must have knowledge of at least one of the languages prescribed by the infrastructure manager concerned. In addition, it provides for the possibility of introducing exemptions for language requirements for cross-border operations, trains that literally cross borders. Those who were already here before, will no doubt remember the problems that existed on the Liège-Maastricht line, where the Netherlands carried out checks on the knowledge of the Dutch of the train drivers and where that knowledge was often absent from the Walloon drivers. These controls were negative, and this has caused many problems, almost to the abolition of that line. For the safety of passengers it is of course important that train drivers can express themselves in the two national languages and that they can communicate very easily with the dispatchers. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed measure does not improve safety. Nor is it the first rule to undermine language guarantees and knowledge of languages. We have already seen with the government the erosion of the Dutch language facilities relating to European patents. We have already had the enumeration of the training at the KMS. There has been a systematic refusal to act on the many language violations in Brussels, you name it. My limited speaking time of two minutes does not allow me to mention them all. In any case, this is yet another deterioration in the knowledge of the Dutch language, which is encouraged by the government. However, ladies and gentlemen, this time it will have an impact on the safety of rail passengers. That is why we cannot approve the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u129	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 125 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2616/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2616/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2269/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2269/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[74]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 57 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2647/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2647/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2604/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2604/4) MM. Willy Demeyer and Philippe Blanchart, as well as Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Özen Özlem, voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2644/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2644/4) MM. Thiebaut and Hellings voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2667/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2667/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 126 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2612/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2612/6) Mrs Ine Somers voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u136	Mr. President, please excuse us. We voted in favour of the very first draft, but we had to abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u137	J'en prends acte.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-19-54-plenair-ip191x.u138	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 23 October 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meetings of the week of October 23, 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 25 October 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 25 October 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
