ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u2	Madam President, I see in the new agenda a large number of questions concerning the police file governing the repatriation of returned persons. On behalf of my group, I propose that a topical debate be held; this may be interesting at the beginning of the sitting. I imagine the minister wants to make all the clarity on this and on the audit report. We therefore propose to hold a topical debate. In view of all the issues raised at the end of the agenda and given the need for transparency, it seems to us that such a debate would be more useful and more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u3	I understand your question, but a lot of members are missing to start a topical debate. In addition, I received information that several questions were transformed into written questions. Therefore, I think we will arrive in five or six minutes at the audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u4	Madam President, thank you. Having said that, can't we turn this item into a topical debate, even if it's in five or six minutes, half an hour or an hour – no matter what? I think that makes sense, given the topicality and out of respect for the Members interested in the subject. We can give ourselves half an hour to warn members who have introduced questions; there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u5	People don't know that. They're next door. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u6	Just so we're clear, I've just been appointed as deputy chairman. I want to decide on this, but I suggest that we finish the questions and in the meantime notify all the people who can be involved in the topical debate that it is coming. I think we'll have more freedom to argue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u7	That's not on the agenda. There are five questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u8	If there are several questions on a subject, the President may decide to turn it into a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u9	If I understand correctly, is that the same thing as finishing the questions? It is a strange procedure to do so here, and the other groups have not been informed that they can participate in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u10	I suggest that (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u11	We shall begin with the questions and in the meantime inform all the groups. Is that acceptable to everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u12	I understand that you will be asking the groups, but now you do not decide whether there will be a topical debate. That's a little unusual. If there are four, five, six questions on the same subject, you can absolutely decide. However, the questions are on the agenda and the Minister has prepared the answers. Out of respect for those Members who are present, we can simply finish the questions. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u13	My proposal is to finish the questions, to notify all the groups and then we can discuss the form in which the questions are taken up, but first those people must be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u14	Madam President, we have already done so, particularly in the Committee on the Interior, on the Canal Plan and on the Minister's statement on the Muslim community. We have done so several times. It's not unusual at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u15	But never at the beginning of the commission. This was on the agenda following a decision by the chairman of the committee because many questions were related to a certain topic. It is up to Parliament to settle this. But I think the groups are busy. No one is at his office waiting for your request. I do not think that every political group has had time to prepare for this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u16	I understand that. It is, of course, subject to the fact that we can warn the other political groups. We have to do this in a collegial way. We suggest organising a topical debate, but of course by warning all political groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u17	I suggest we just start with the questions now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u18	Minister, clear and concrete information is crucial in the event of emergencies. In the event of heavy fires, the public is called on via various media to keep windows and doors closed, for example. Of course, that makes sense. It is a simple measure to prevent worse. Nevertheless, we must take account of the technology factor, particularly in the case of companies and offices. In many companies, automatic air change systems are used that are centrally switched on and off. In an emergency requiring windows and doors to be closed, it may occur that one does not have the reflex to switch off the air exchange systems, which may cause toxic air to be sucked in. It is also possible that the workers will not be able to turn off the fans themselves, hence my questions. Has emergency planning included the need to take into account the reflex action to shut down automatic air-conditioning systems? Is there an obligation at the time of the fire inspection of buildings to introduce a safety procedure for the manual disposal of air-conditioning systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u19	Mr Metsu, in the event of a heavy fire, the people are asked to keep windows and doors closed. Businesses may also be asked to turn off the automatic air change system. Those protective measures shall be provided for at the level of municipal emergency planning. They can also be included in the internal emergency plans of companies. At federal level, I can only impose general standards for any type of building. It is particularly at sunny level that, on the basis of a risk analysis, we will monitor the safety procedures for whether or not to manually dissipate the air exchange system. Today, therefore, this is not a general, uniform obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u21	Madam President, Minister, last November, I was already asking you about the passage, in summer 2016, from the Director General of the Department of Private Security within the Internal SPF to the Professional Association of Guardianship Enterprises (APEG), which brings together 14 multinational companies in the private guarding sector. This person also led the negotiations, on behalf of the state, against the private guard lobbies, around the new "private security" bill. She was one of the main editors. In fact, you intend to present this text in the coming weeks to Parliament. Even if you replied last November that nothing prohibited such a transfer between public and private - which is true at the legal level - it raises serious questions in terms of the suspicion of conflict of interest and the involvement of private security lobbies in your private security bill. First of all, ethically, we can legitimately question ourselves. Of course, everyone has the right to change their position, but in this case the door is opened to suspicions of conflict of interest. Indeed, in this case, a responsible person remains in exactly the same sector but changes side by side in the middle of strategic negotiations: he passes overnight from the guarantor of the state to the guarantor of the multinationals of the sector. In concrete terms, the Director in question led the work of a group called in-house "guarding round table" bringing together the Internal FPS, the trade unions and the two associations officially representing the private guarding companies (APEG and PSA). In June 2016, he chaired the round table on behalf of the Inland FPS, and in November 2016 he represented the interests of the GPA. That is where, in our view, all the questions concerning the conflict of interest arise. Beyond the legal aspects, do you not find that such a situation could potentially put the interests of the State, in this case the Internal SPF, in difficulty? Do you not think that a buffer period or a period of twelve or eighteen months should have been respected, given the proximity between the public service and the private service? As you may know, this is regularly the case in the private sector. Would you be in favour of establishing a code of conduct for senior officials so that this kind of situation does not happen again in the future? Furthermore, if I refer to the forthcoming discussions on the revision of the Tobback Act, the situation is obviously very problematic. It is a complex issue, of crucial importance for public safety. Today, there is a right to wonder what role private sector lobbies have played in the process of developing the bill. In July 2016, the former director announced that he would join the APEG. One might wonder how long he knew he would change positions, how long he had been in contact with the guarding area. It is necessary to determine since when this gentleman negotiates on behalf of the state when he knows that he will pass across the negotiating table. Without wishing to accuse anyone, do you understand that this situation is problematic and casts doubt on how the interests of the State have been defended? In order to avoid controversy and any suspicion of conflict of interest, would it not have been healthier for this person to change his position after the vote on the new "private security" bill, which will be introduced in the coming weeks in parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u22	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, as I indicated in my answer to your previous parliamentary question No. 1692 of October 3, 2016, there is nothing to prevent an official from deciding to reorient his career by integrating the private sector or vice versa. With regard to the ethical duties of officials of the Internal FPS, they are subject to the Code of Ethics of the Internal FPS, which specifies the values to be respected in the performance of functions such as integrity and discretion. Furthermore, if it were to be decided to open the debate on the introduction of a buffer period between the performance of certain functions in the public sector and the performance of certain functions in the private sector or vice versa, that debate should concern the entire civil service and not only the Internal FPS. Second, it is worth recalling that a draft bill is a minister's legislative initiative that is subject to government-wide approval. Although it is clear that the competent administration is consulted and involved in the preparatory work, it remains that a draft bill is a piece of legislation that reflects the vision of the competent minister and of the government as a whole. Finally, the introduction of a draft law in Parliament is always preceded by a lengthy process in which the draft law is constantly evolving. The Council of State is currently considering the draft text as approved by the Council of Ministers on 25 November. The text will then be adapted, if necessary, on the basis of comments made by the Council of State and will be discussed again. In summary, although public servants have an opinion and influence on the text, it is the minister's text that passes through many institutions and people before becoming a law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. You remain to what is legally possible and impossible and on ethical and moral duties as drafted in the codes for the labour law of civil servants. We were obviously aware of that. I wanted to draw your attention to the period itself and not to the change of function. Everyone has the right to reorient their careers and we can only hope that this will happen; it is positive to move from the public to the private, from the private to the public. I think that has been your case, and it is also mine. This is not the question, but the conflict of interest: it is the same sector, it is the same interlocutors, who talk about the same issues. And the deadline is extremely short, which creates suspicion. If I ask you the question, it's because on the ground, people also ask themselves, without accusing this person of bad intentions, which I didn't do either. At the level of the Internal FPS and in the profession in general, people ask themselves. Clearer rules should be established. It is normal that, for high-level positions such as a director of administration, rules should be laid down in the case of passage into the same sector on the private side. It is not a question of prohibiting it, but of removing any suspicion of conflict of interest. That is what we want for the future and we will certainly come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u24	Question No 15904 by Mr Olivier Maingain is transformed into a written question. We are coming to Mr. Kir's inquiry into the faction checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u25	I don't have the document in my hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u26	Question No 97 by Mrs Pas is postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Demon's 15975 and 16001 have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u27	Madam President, Minister, last July I was already asking you about the future of the Libramont Emergency Preparedness operational unit. You were then replying to me that the number of current units would be rationalized and that an in-depth analysis of the number and location of the units was under way. You also told me that, within this framework, two sets of criteria would be used: on the one hand, the economic criteria (the state of the current infrastructure, the necessary costs, the evolution of the sites, etc.)On the other hand, operational criteria (location, accessibility, mobility, etc.)). The concerns are great for the future of the Libramont unit. According to news reports, by January 2018 you are planning the closure of four out of six barracks, probably the one in Libramont. Minister, I would like to insist. The Libramont unit covers a much larger territory than the only province in Luxembourg, which is already the largest province in Belgium. As you know, while civil protection is at the service of the population, it also plays an extremely important role in preserving the environment, especially in chemical pollution, where urgency, and hence rapid response, is essential. On this point, the skills and experience of the officers of this emergency department are quite exceptional. Population density cannot therefore be the sole criterion for the relevance of maintaining a civil protection unit. The size of the territory and its environmental quality are equally important and require action as quickly as possible. However, during a serious problem, for example in my municipality of Habay, the civil protection of Crisnee would take 1h30, if the weather was pleasant. Coming from Ghlin, it would take him 1:50 a.m. or two hours, while she is currently taking half an hour from Libramont. It is all the more incomprehensible that Libramont's position disappears as the infrastructure is new and very efficient. Minister, I suggest you visit the Libramont site to tell you about the professionalism of this unit's teams and the state-of-the-art equipment they have at their disposal. They do a remarkable job and the number of their interventions is eloquent. Are you considering deleting the Libramont Civil Protection Operational Unit? If the statements are confirmed, what would be the deadline? What will happen to existing Libramont staff and equipment? What will be the future of Civil Protection in the province of Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u28	Ms. Poncelet, the federal government's Kern has not yet decided on the number of positions and locations. They currently number six and are expected to decline in the future, although their number is not yet known. The objective remains to reach a political agreement as soon as possible and to finalize the reform in 2018. The future of equipment and personnel can only be determined on the basis of the decision of the Kern. As the decision has not yet been taken, it is difficult to respond. In any case, and in the case of closed units, an adequate solution will be considered, either in the remaining units or with other public services such as emergency areas, the police, the Foreign Office, prison surveillance, etc. All emergency front-line tasks will be transferred to the emergency areas. The idea behind civil protection reform is that urgent tasks are no longer the responsibility of civil security. Their tasks are specialized tasks or related to a need for specialized skills or specialized equipment. All emergency front-line tasks will be transferred to the emergency areas following the reform of the fire zones, in accordance with a political decision taken by the previous government. The current federal government implements these decisions and maintains the logic of this reform. Civil Protection becomes a second-line specialty service offering an exclusive complementary service. It will become a reinforcement service in depth and more in the expanse. The aim is to provide this service anywhere in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u29	Minister, thank you for your response, which is very consistent but which remains worrying for the Libramont unit. I reiterate my invitation to visit Libramont's infrastructure, which is new and has many advantages. But I'm still worried. I feel that the answer is not reassuring for Libramont.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u30	Madam President, Minister, on Wednesday, November 9, 2016, the Court of Cassation, the highest court of the French Judicial Order, decided that an identity check on physical characteristics, associated with a real or supposed origin, without any prior objective justification was discriminatory. This is a serious fault that involves the responsibility of the State. For a brief reminder, in 2013, thirteen people filed complaints, considering that they had been subjected to identity checks based solely on their physical appearance, a real or supposed African or North African origin (skin colour, features, clothing). On 24 March 2015, the Paris Court of Appeal delivered thirteen judgments. In five cases, the State was ordered to pay damages to the controlled person and, in the remaining eight cases, the State was not held liable. Appeals in cassation have been brought against these thirteen judgments. The Court of Cassation ruled for the first time on the question of checks in the face of discrimination, specifying how discrimination must be proved. This is a three-step adjustment of the burden of proof. First, the person who has been the subject of an identity check and who refers the matter to the court must provide the judge with evidence that suggests discrimination exists. Secondly, it is up to the administration to demonstrate either the absence of discrimination or a difference in treatment justified by objective elements. Thirdly, the judge exercises his control. In our country, the Police Function Act of 1992 specifies the criteria under which a police officer may carry out an identity check. A code of ethics also refers to the values to be respected, in which the majority of police officers belong. However, last October, the Human Rights League released a study on ethnic profiling in Belgium. She noted that there was an increase in the number of face offences against a specific category of persons. These are the young, African or North African men and the poor. This phenomenon, however prohibited by law in Europe, has been on the rise since the attacks of 11 September but especially in recent months, following the attacks in Paris and Brussels. Let us be clear, the objective of my inquiry is not to condemn the work of the police, on the contrary, but rather to understand the nature of the phenomenon described by the League of Human Rights and to open the debate with you. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know whether you have read the decision of the Court of Cassation in France and have your feeling on the matter. Last September, a motion was tabled in a municipality in the Brussels Region to open a debate on police checks in the Facies, with the aim of introducing the certificate of identity control on an experimental basis into the procedures of the North Police Area, which includes Schaerbeek, Saint-Josse and Evere. What do you think of this proposal? On what legal basis are face-to-face checks carried out in Belgium? How many complaints were received by the General Inspectorate of Police Services or the P Committee? What follow-up has been given? Finally, do our police officers receive training and awareness programmes at the Police Academy on ethnic, cultural or racial prejudices? Training is also available on request. How many were exempted? What is the follow-up? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u31	Mr Kir, I have indeed read the recent case law of the French Court of Cassation. It should be pointed out that in France, identity checks may be carried out in cases of flagrante delicto, infringement of public order or on the request of the public prosecutor. In Belgium, the Law on the Police Function exhaustively lists the assumptions and circumstances in which the police services can verify the identity of a person. Furthermore, the Act of 30 July 1981 prohibits discrimination on the basis of several protected criteria, such as ethnic origin. This Act penalises any public official or public officer who, in the performance of his or her duties, discriminates against a person on the basis of one of the protected criteria. You asked for my opinion on this. I have already mentioned this on several occasions, because I have already been asked whether the police are going to make ethnic profiles. I have always distanced myself from this type of measure and confirmed in Parliament that this had never been my goal. With regard to the Human Rights League's study on ethnic profiling, which you mentioned last October, the following correction should be made. That same month, a debate between the police zone of Brussels-Nord and the League of Human Rights was broadcast on a private Belgian television channel. However, no studies of this association were presented on this occasion. An exploratory study on ethnic profiling in police controls was, of course, conducted in 2016 by the League of Human Rights. However, its results will only be published in the coming weeks. On the other hand, it has no claim to be of academic value, as it is based on the testimony of fifteen people. For your good information, a wide-ranging research on ethnic profiling is also carried out by the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, in collaboration with the Brussels-North Police Area and the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology. Any citizen who considers that he has been subjected to a discriminatory identity check may lodge a complaint, in accordance with the above-mentioned Act of 1982, with the judicial authority, with Committee P or with the General Inspectorate of the Police Service and with the internal control services of the police services. In addition, an alert may be submitted to the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities. In addition, the Police Disciplinary Act provides for a reciprocal information mechanism between the Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination and the P Committee, the General Inspectorate and the disciplinary authorities. On this basis, when the Inter-Departmental Centre for Equal Opportunities communicates to the P Committee or the General Inspectorate of the Police Service, the facts suggesting discriminatory treatment, the P Committee or the General Inspectorate must investigate, inform the competent disciplinary authorities and report to the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities on the disciplinary and judicial follow-up of the case. I believe that there are sufficient opportunities to challenge an identity check and that the issuance of an identity check certificate will not bring any particular added value. Finally, I find it difficult to systematically issue an identity check certificate from a practical point of view and would bear a disproportionate and unnecessary administrative burden because of the control mechanisms already in place. An identity check based exclusively on the presumed ethnic origin of a person shall not, in the light of the applicable legislation, be allowed. On the other hand, the Law on the Police Function allows the implementation of systematic controls prescribed by the administrative police authority in the framework of the control of the legislation on access to the territory and in the context of the maintenance of public security. The feeling that people's checks have been able to intensify in recent months can be explained by the increase in these systematic checks. Such checks have been prescribed by circular, in particular for all persons present in the infrastructure, buildings and means of transport of railways, metros, airports and ports (cf. OOP43) as well as for all asylum seekers present at the premises of the Office of Foreigners (cf. OOP 44). In practice, the implementation of such systematic checks implies that any person in the circumstances described in the circulars may be subject to an identity check. As the deployment of a sufficient police system to ensure the control of 100 per cent of these people is impossible in practice, the controlled persons are randomly targeted, which may lead to the perception among some controlled persons that they have been wrongly targeted. The Inspectorate General has not received any complaints regarding the subject matter of this inquiry. As for Committee P, the latter had not recently conducted an investigation into the practice of ethnic profiling during identity checks by police officers. All complaints brought to the attention of Committee P are recorded in an automated register on the basis of the current registration parameters. However, it is not possible to make a reliable ex post evaluation of the number of complaints concerning ethnic profiling during identity checks. In addition to the code of ethics of the police services, awareness-raising among members of the police services takes place both as part of the basic training and as part of the ongoing training. The teaching of subjects relating to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is specifically addressed in various modules of the general study regulations. In addition, various ongoing training courses, including diversity management, the practical application of the code of ethics, the legal framework of anti-discrimination and anti-racism laws, are offered on an ongoing basis by the Federal Police Training Directorate and provincial schools. Some training courses specifically address the importance of a good knowledge of local communities and the additional efforts that must be made towards minorities, the diaspora, different religious communities, young people and the most disadvantaged groups in our society. It emphasizes the basic principle of local action, namely respect for these people, their differences, religion, history or culture, and knowledge of different cultures and communities in order to help eliminate stigma and polarization. Given the diversity of training courses containing modules on the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, it is impossible to provide the exact number of training courses provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u32	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. I take note, of course, of the way in which you have accepted the decision of the Court of Cassation and of the position you have, as a minister, with regard to this type of situation. The pilot project at the Saint-Josse, Schaerbeek, Evere police area is continuing. It is part of a very positive dynamic with the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities. We will wait, if I understand correctly, for the conclusions of his work. I guess we'll have a chance to get along again. For you, this may not be the direction to be taken, I would say, but wait for the conclusions of its work. On face checks, objectively, the increase in controls after the attacks in Paris and Brussels is explained and understood. On the subject of training, I do not know the number of sessions or modules offered, but you have explained the scope and diversity of the offers and modules offered. I would like to return to the complaints to the General Inspectorate of Police Services or Committee P. I am surprised and would like to check with you whether it is true that there have been no complaints of fact filed with the P Committee or the General Inspectorate of the Police. Maybe I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u33	There were no complaints to the Inspectorate General. In Committee P, Parliament's departments do not yet provide for the encoding of complaints that allow me to identify them as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u34	On the basis of the complaints you made earlier, and I thank you for the explanation, can the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities ask the P Committee or the General Inspectorate of Police Services to investigate? In this context, have there been any complaints about fee control problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u35	From Unia to...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u37	If there was no complaint to the General Inspectorate, it was neither Unia nor the police hierarchy. As far as Committee P is concerned, I have no idea. I can commit to the General Inspectorate for complaints of any kind. If this comes from the hierarchy of the police or other institutions, I always ask...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u38	Chairperson: Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u39	May I know the nature of the complaints from the Myria Interfederal Centre to the General Inspectorate of Police. Because you tell us there was no complaint and I'm ready to believe you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u40	Could you introduce a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u41	That's what I'm gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u42	Is there a motion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u43	No, since we decided to wait for the findings of the study, since it is related to the arrest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 16042 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 16050 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u45	Mr.President, Minister, in April 2015, I was already asking you about the legality of certain contraventions in the light of a decision made by a police court in the province of Hainaut that had ruled that the mere photograph of a license plate did not permit a contravention of the vehicle owner of that license plate. You then told me that this case was completely isolated and that it did not give rise to any broader problems regarding the work done by the police in connection with this type of contravention. In the meantime, four judgments were handed down by the Court of Cassation stating that the police would not comply with the rules of protection of privacy, on the understanding that it would not be allowed to use the Car-Bank of Vehicles, the former database of the Directorate for Vehicle Registration (DIV). Mr Minister, I wanted to question you in an up-to-date manner on this subject, in particular following the statement by Secretary of State Philippe De Backer, who, as I know, has already made clear that a new legal basis for the exchange of data would be necessary in order to be able to respond to the concerns raised by the Court of Cassation. Minister, what analysis has been made by your services with regard to these common contraventions and therefore the assessment that could be made of them by the judges? Have any measures been taken since April 2015 following the decision, which I referred to, of the police court in the province of Hainaut? Why has the necessary legal basis never been adopted to enable proper information to be provided by the police? Finally, is there cooperation between your services, the police and the services of Mr. De Backer to determine what legal basis should be put in place to ensure the regulated exchange of data between all these services and to allow legal prosecution of offenders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u46	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the Court of Cassation ruled that the court did not use the right arguments to justify its judgment. She argued that the police did not need to be empowered by the Federal Authorities Sector Committee to the Privacy Commission. The judge had been able to convict by using the so-called Antigone principle, since he met the following conditions: the condition of authorization is not prescribed under penalty of nullity; the reliability of the evidence is not tainted; the cameras are systematically regulated by the Economic Affairs Department; they meet the criteria of quality and accuracy, i.e. the photos are clearly visible, etc. The evidence is not dishonest because of the lack of administrative clearance. Indeed, the evidence is fair, verifiable. They can be examined (photos), contradicted (the make and vehicle type do not match the assigned plate number, etc.).). The police must only follow administrative reporting rules. The court had therefore been able to rely on article 32 of the previous title of the Code of Criminal Investigation. The judge of the Louvain Court applied this principle a few days after the Court's decision. The court's decision of 2015 concerned the flash in front, where it was a reproduction of the license plate that had been photographed. According to the court, the license plate was not sufficiently visible, due to the darkness, to lead to reliable identification. Centrex Circulation Route, a centre of knowledge and expertise of the integrated police, published, on 21 May 2015, a note to all the police services to draw their attention to the judgment of the court of Charleroi (district of Hainaut) and the consequences of the verbalization using the data of the number of the front plate photographed at night. To my knowledge, there has been no other similar decision taken by a court. The application for authorization was submitted on 15 December 2016 by the Police Information and Means Directorate of the Federal Police to the Sectoral Committee of the Federal Authorities of the Commission on the Protection of Privacy. The authority responsible for enforcing and monitoring compliance with the Privacy Act, the Sectoral Committee, has consistently interpreted and applied the rules of the Royal Decree of 4 June 2003 with the conviction that the derogation concerned communications conducted by the police in its capacity as data holder and issuer, but also data introduced or produced by the police for which information is indispensable for the performance of its judicial and administrative tasks, by or from a public service or institution is required. The Court of Cassation held, however, that the derogation is limited to communications issued by the police. Respecting the Court's decisions and for reasons of legal certainty, the Sectoral Committee authorized the disclosure of IVD personal data to the police services. As a result, the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer, for the very least.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u48	Mr President, Minister, according to some experts, indoctrination does not develop directly in places of worship and recruiters also target a number of young people and young adults in sports. If significant resources in terms of personnel and finance have been made available by the government in order to combat as effectively as possible the radicalisation of people present on Belgian territory, I would like to know whether specific initiatives have been taken by the federal services to the Communities in relation to the observation I have just mentioned. In this context, initiatives seem to have been suggested to the local authorities in order to raise their awareness and to maintain a direct link between the various actors on the ground in the municipalities. However, questions concerning the indoctrination of young people are still present in our communes. What contacts and collaboration exist between your services and the Community institutions in the fight against radicalisation in sports infrastructures and sports associations? Is a screening of the diplomas and profile of the managers of sports associations and sports halls carried out? If so, how many were achieved in 2015 and 2016? Is a screening of the various sports infrastructures present on Belgian territory carried out in connection with the policy of subsidisation of federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u49	Mr President, honourable Member, there is no systematic security screening for sports clubs, their leaders, management, technical staff or members. Conditions for the issuance of licences are not established by the federal authority. To my knowledge, the test of radicalization is not a legal condition. I do not think that such proactive screening is useful, desirable or proportionate. In this respect, I do not dispute that a problem of radicalisation can occur in sports clubs as well as in other associations. Where this is found or reported, the competent authorities shall carry out the necessary checks and investigations and, if necessary, propose the appropriate measures to be taken with regard to the person or association. The framework for this is Plan R, which was updated last year. In this respect, the representatives of the Communities and the Regions were included in the steering committee (the national task force) precisely to strengthen the collaboration between the federal security services and regional actors in the fight against radicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u50	Thank you for the clarification you have given me. I remain concerned that a systematic filter is not in place, but perhaps this issue needs to be studied with the federated entities. I think that relying exclusively on reporting and weak signals, because that is ultimately what this is all about, is perhaps not the most reassuring protection measure for our young people and for our sports infrastructure. Personally, I would therefore plead for a more systematic filter. I know it's tricky, but we're in a difficult time, facing difficult situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u51	Thank you, Mr. Pivin. I understand that your question No 16053 has been postponed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u52	It is postponed to the extent that it will allow for a full response. I prefer to put it down when I get a full answer, according to the practice of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u53	Mr. President, Minister, steps have already been taken to further strengthen the protection of our police officers, primarily because of the threat they face. The decision to arm police officers is extremely important, regardless of the other measures announced. More specifically, a risk analysis relating to the safety of police personnel should, I believe, be carried out by the police areas. In addition, the Crisis Centre has identified a core of concrete measures to be applied in a harmonised manner throughout Belgium. Could you tell me, then, whether all the police areas have already carried out this risk analysis aimed at the safety and protection of police personnel attached to their area? If so, what conclusions could be drawn? Could you also tell me whether harmonisation for all areas is the subject of measures taken at your initiative concerning the security of police infrastructure? Are all the measures decided by the Crisis Centre already effective on the territory or under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u54	Mr President, Mr Pivin, on 12 August 2016, I sent a letter to the Integrated Police Coordination Committee asking it to formulate proposals for additional national and minimum security standards for police offices and, in particular, for their receptions. A working group was established in September 2016. It is composed of expert members of the local federal police. An expert from the Régie des Bâtiments was also part of the working group and his chairmanship was provided by the federal police. On 23 December 2016, the group made its recommendations in a report forwarded to the Integrated Police Coordination Committee, i.e. the Local Police Committee and the Federal Police Dirco, for validation and discussion. This report will be forwarded to me; it is scheduled for February. The Standing Committee on Local Police highlights the excellent work done in this working group, which produced a report containing the recommendations as soon as possible. I await the transmission of this report through the Integrated Police Coordination Committee in order to examine it within my cabinet. Finally, a response could only be provided after consultation with all of the Kingdom's police areas. Meanwhile, the IGA, following its 2016 report, continues to visit local police areas and federal police entities to see if the measures proposed by the Crisis Centre are being implemented. A global overview is not yet available, as this work has not yet been completed. The IGA will carry out visits to local police areas and federal entities, as well as related reports. An annual report will be prepared at the end of the year, taking into account the visits made in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u55	Minister, I will allow myself to re-examine you later in the course of 2017 based on the analyses you have been able to carry out on the items you expect to be exposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u56	Following the threats and acts to which Belgium has been subjected, the federated entities have been called upon to take a number of measures to secure security, within the framework of their respective competences. I would therefore like to know what information is made available to prevention advisers in the various educational networks in our country by your services and by the Internal FPS? What cooperation is established and structured with the Internal FPS, the Directorate-General for Prevention and Guardianship on schools in our country? Can you tell me whether improvements in collaborations between school networks and local techno-prevention advisors are planned or expected in the context of the Home SPF missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u57	Mr Pivin, my administration has given its opinion on the drafting of several fact sheets developed by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. These included recommendations in case of a terrorist threat, recommendations in case of dangerous intrusion into a building, recommendations in case of hostage-taking, recommendations in case of unexpected closure of the establishment. The fact sheets have been made available to national flight prevention advisers. Moreover, the city and the police zone of Liège, which have developed a certain expertise, have already presented the topic several times at meetings of prevention advisers at the national level. Finally, the training of flight prevention counsellors contains a specific module on the security of public or semi-public buildings, including schools. The importance of access control is widely discussed. My administration has no direct contact with the trustees. Information and good practice in this area are shared with the prevention counsellors. These are contacted directly by the schools in the event of a specific request. Finally, my administration intends to continue to support the flight prevention advisers who would be asked to secure school buildings by providing them with the necessary information and by bringing them in contact with the relevant resource persons. In this regard, my Administration wishes to further develop its expertise in the area of security measures for the benefit of its main partners, including communes and prevention advisers. To this end, it intends to set up a multidisciplinary team of experts to issue recommendations in the field on the security of public buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u58	Minister, this is an excellent initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Franky Demon's 16088 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u60	I heard from Mrs De Coninck that the question was asked to link a topical debate to the questions. Pursuant to Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, I will allow questions to be dealt with together and to proceed to a topical debate in committee in accordance with the provisions of Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure. That means that speaking time per questioner is two minutes and the answer time is five minutes. With the exception of the group of the authors, one speaker may speak per political group for two minutes either in order to put a question or in order to reply after the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u61	Minister, press reports were published on 23 and 24 January on the content of a report from the general inspection of the federal and local police. The report was prepared at the request of Catherine De Bolle and is devastating for the police department that repatriates refugees. For the sake of clarity, as former responsible for large organisations, I consider regular audits to be particularly important in producing reports on them. However, in order to cope successfully with this, it is also important that the staff of the service who are audited feel that they are involved and that they can make recommendations to work better in the future. In this sense, I deeply regret that the audit report in question has not been properly handled. I am somewhat afraid that the fuss that has now arisen as a result of the audit report may lead to a very negative attitude towards audits in the future, whereas it may be good instruments for others, outsiders, to check whether they are doing well, whether they are meeting the objectives set or whether they are doing other things. Just so we're clear, I'm trying to look at that as objectively as possible. I see that in the other questions the word 'gray culture' is constantly mentioned. The report devotes 13 lines to this and often talks about suspicions, as this has not yet been proven. Minister, you are partly right that the fact that there is an audit means that the organisation is doing well. That does not alter the fact that you need to have things examined and react appropriately to them. You can't put that aside. I could still live with you deleting the 13 lines in question, but I don't think you could make the audit report public. After all, I suspect that not in the 13 lines but in the rest of the report there are some very sensible things that should be included in the organisation. I am thinking of the need for training, additional training and expansion of the number of escorts. The series in De Standaard in recent weeks about the experience with the procedure and repatriations shows that we must deal with it professionally. Mr. Secretary, were you aware of the investigation and the outcome of the report? If so, what measures have you taken? What measures will you take, together with the leadership of the police, to avoid such practices? I know from experience that in jobs that are mentally difficult and where people work in a team, there is a very good chance that an internal culture will be developed in which everyone will protect each other and there will be no more criticism, because one is afraid of the outside world and of the team itself. It is not unimportant to put more rotation into that in the future. The media is talking about a steering committee to be set up. What do you think of that? Will that happen? Following the two draft laws on the repatriation of convicted and unconvicted aliens, I asked for a permanent evaluation or follow-up committee to be set up, which not only monitors but also supports and justifies the policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u62	Minister, I asked a question last week about the audit of the aviation police responsible for the repatriation of people without papers. It was a question that I originally tabled in December, but it was then converted into a written question. Since I had no answer to my written question, I asked my question at the committee meeting last week. That audit came at the request of the Commissioner-General, Mrs De Bolle. I asked you last week to give us this report. In particular, I asked you about the content of that report. What were the reasons for that checkup? Were there any incidents or problems within the service? What were the findings? In other words, what was in that report? What were the conclusions of the report? What will you do with those conclusions? I asked you very clearly. You then gave a detailed answer on the operation of that service. You specifically said that the escorts carry out their removal orders professionally and humanely. You also said that, for example, there was a call for permanent monitoring, which would also be done. You didn't say anything last Wednesday about the abuses that existed within the service. However, this does not seem to me to be a detail. I understand that you were unable to present the report in its entirety, but not to give such an important facet, nevertheless raises questions. Especially since I had asked you specifically what prompted this investigation. Why was that audit carried out? My question is why you did not mention this last week. I also asked you to deliver the report to Parliament. I even asked for this to be done as is customary, through the President. The Chair may then distribute it to the members of this Committee for the Interior through the Secretariat. The next day, I checked to see if the report was included in the report. This was not the case. As I did not have the report on Monday, I asked the chairman to do what was necessary. The chairman told me he was going to send me an e-mail. A few hours later, I noticed on the news that the report had apparently been leaked, with everything that emerged: the alleged visit to prostitutes, drinking problems, expensive hotels and so on. I cannot say anything about this right now, because these are matters which obviously need to be examined further. I was surprised, however, especially because I had asked for the report, but I had not received it until then. It was only after the report had been leaked that we were informed last night that the report was available in Parliament, at the secretariat's office, and that it could be examined under strict conditions. What will happen now? Mrs De Bolle is right to ask for a preliminary investigation. What's the timing of that? What sanctions are already being applied, if any? Are there any new measures in place? I read in the newspaper that 158 members of the repatriation police were interviewed before the audit, but only 34 people submitted the questionnaire. That's really weird. Is that normal? I also hear that the code of conduct for escorts is apparently interpreted very scaryly. Do you intend to tighten up the deontological code for escorts? Finally, do you consider it necessary to ask the P Committee to investigate the matter further? Do you think that is appropriate, especially since we know by now that a similar audit was ordered in 2006? I wonder what happened to that audit. He never came to Parliament, but was there any internal follow-up to the 2006 audit? Maybe you know that, maybe you don't know that, and you'll have it examined further. In short, it is certainly not your responsibility, of course not. The abuses within that service are an individual responsibility of all those who have wronged themselves and of course you are not responsible for that. It is an individual responsibility, as well as a responsibility of the direct manager. However, I would like to tell you, Minister, that we, as Members of Parliament, have a supervisory function and that we want to try to carry it out. That is why we ask questions, to which we would like answers from you, including the request of certain reports. If certain reports cannot be released, then you must say at that time what you did not do last week. You didn't say there would be a report, under strict conditions. You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u63	Mr President, thank you for holding a debate on this issue. I will not repeat the questions asked by my colleagues; you will answer them, minister. I would like to stress the fourth question that I put to you in connection with the question I had tabled, namely, has there been any consultation between you, the Secretary of State responsible for supervision of the Office of Foreigners, Mr Franken, and your services? If I understand the system of repatriation by police officers, the salaries of police officers are paid by the federal police, by the Home SPF, and that seems normal. But the travel expenses of evicted persons and the police who travel are on the account of the Foreign Office, I assume. I am thinking of the cost of flight and hotel, but also of a possible per diem. Could you clarify whether this is at the expense of the Foreign Office, and whether there is a cooperation agreement between the Federal Police and the Agency for these missions? Could you give me an idea of the annual budget for 2016, which has been charged by the police, or other methods, for these missions carried out for the Office of Foreigners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u64	Thank you, Mr President, for having accepted our request to hold a topical debate on this important subject. My colleagues have already described the context. I will go straight to the questions I would like to ask the minister. Minister, on the facts, I want to know how it happened that this was not noticed earlier. Could you explain to us how internal controls at the level of these services work? Why were the expenses not verified prior to this audit of escort officers' expenses? We read this morning in Le Soir that the services of the Office of Foreigners said that there was nothing special and that they had not noticed anything in the checks that would have been carried out. Again, how is this possible? Is there no internal audit or controls at this level? In addition, following the release of this report last Monday, containing very serious and challenging findings on the practices of some of these escort agents, you announced arrangements and new measures that you would have taken as a result of this audit. Could you go into the details of the measures you intend to take or have taken since then? Finally, I come to the question of transparency in relation to our work as parliamentarians. I agree here with my colleague Lanjri's request. Could you explain why you did not make full transparency on the whole report at the time the question was asked to you? Why didn't you talk about all the passages that made the headlines this week? Having been Leader of the Opposition in the previous Parliament, you know how important this is for our parliamentary oversight work. Can you also explain on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I, too, would like to dwell on this situation for a moment. In an audit, carried out by the General Inspectorate of the Police, on escort missions by the aeronautical police of persons expelled from the territory, there is talk of the abusive practices of certain agents: leisure trips, billing of stays in luxurious hotels – we are even talking about recourse to prostitution services; this in the context of or on the margins of official missions of escorts of persons expelled from the territory. I'll go back to that. You received another alert from the Myria Centre, which, in its annual report, drew attention to the fact that these removal missions had to be monitored, especially since the Inspectorate General of the local and federal police received European subsidies covering the period from July 2015 to December 2018. Myria also noted that for several years these reports have not been published. Mr Minister, is the audit report we are talking about here the report financed by the European authorities? If so, how often is it developed? Why is this report not made public? Several questions were asked about the accompanying return policies, notably by Mrs Lanjri last week, but also at the end of last year. I had asked myself a question about the training of agents. These questions were asked on 21 September and 9 November. Were you aware of this audit when you answered our questions? If so, it seems to me surprising that you did not mention this report in your responses. I join my colleagues: were you aware of the existence of the audit when you replied to us? What is the extent of the facts in this audit report? What is the frequency? What is the cost to the taxpayer? What disciplinary and structural measures have been taken to respond to this audit report? I would like to add a question from Mr Hellings: in a previous reply on the existence of a return coordination group led by your Secretary of State Mr Franken, you told us that this group was responsible for drawing up conclusions. Has this return group been aware of the audit? Is it currently preparing conclusions? If necessary, I would be curious to learn about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u66	Are there any committee members who have questions that are in line with this topical debate, knowing that they will not be able to replicate? Mr De Vriendt, your group has already asked two questions. The Rules of Procedure allow only additional questions from political groups that have not yet been able to take the floor. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u67	Minister, this week's news about alleged abuses and police gray culture is in any case bad for our citizens' confidence in their governments and their public services. In all this commotion, it is important to note that repatriations are going properly, but that it is going wrong once those people have been repatriated. What goes wrong, we have heard in the news. Cops would deliberately fly back through holiday destinations and fly into business class. They would be guilty of fraud and would therefore be liable to blackmail, and so on. Mr Minister, let me be clear, such practices are unacceptable. Police officers, like any civil servant, must behave correctly at all times and everywhere. It is therefore understandable, and necessary, that Commissioner-General De Bolle has ordered an investigation. It is important that the allegations are investigated to the bone and that, if the evidence is presented, those who behave badly will have the appropriate consequences in the short term. We have three questions for you in this mini-debate, Minister. Firstly, can you give a chronological view and the state of play in this file? Secondly, what are the next steps the police will take or will take? Thirdly, and this is important, Minister, are we talking about some rotten apples in the basket, at the bottom of the ladder, or can you say that there are also leaders involved? Finally, we are confident that you, as the competent minister, will deal with the police force with this dossier with a firm and correct basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u68	If no one wishes to intervene, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I can give you a lot of factual information and also some comments. First of all, the audit report was submitted by the AIG on 5 December 2016. I myself received the report on 12 December 2016. After receiving this audit report, I immediately asked for a thorough analysis of it. Mr Kir, the recent audit referred to is not the monitoring report on forced removals that the AEG drafts annually. This annual report shall be forwarded to the Minister of the Interior. Here, this is the report of the Inspector General requested by the Commissioner General in 2014. The audit report was sent directly to, inter alia, the responsible Director-General, i.e. the DGA, and the responsible director of the LPA; both of the aviation police. The report contains a series of recommendations which, as has been said, are currently under consideration. A steering board has already been set up between the auditors and the competent management to monitor actions in the areas of organisation, structure, operation and communication. For example, information sessions are already planned for the staff. A steering committee has been set up and will monitor the implementation of the recommendations, including on the basis of the pilot board quoted above. Mrs Lanjri, last week I gave you a summary of the findings, the so-called decision of the report. I gave you the decisions of the report, as you asked me to do. May I remind you that this is a document with limited dissemination. I'm not the one who set up that label; that's what the AIG did. This means that not all the elements of the report can and should be made public by me. This requires explicit consent. That is why I replied to your question that if Parliament asks me for the report, I will transfer it immediately. I repeat, immediately. On Wednesday afternoon I received a letter from the chairman and as soon as my employee received the letter, the report was forwarded. This report carries the label "Limited Distribution', so I had no choice but to act in this way. I would like to add the following, Mrs Lanjri. You're not often on this committee, you're not a member of it. I have already received questions from all the political groups in this committee, which I, as a minister, have answered in full and in detail, showing the greatest possible transparency. The fact that you are undermining my reputation in that regard is not something I can appreciate at all. I have been a Member of this House for many years, and I have the greatest respect for Parliament. If Parliament asks me questions, I will give detailed answers. And if there are any reports that I can make public, then I'll do it by the proper procedure, d'office, always and with every report. The report has now been sent to Parliament and is therefore available for inspection. In order to make a report with limited dissemination available to Parliament, a specific procedure must be followed, as I have just said. Authorisation should be sought from the AIG or, and under what conditions, this document can be shared with MEPs. It was authorized on Monday to make the document available to Parliament, but without taking copies or photocopies of it. So I got the authorization from the AIG on Monday. When the letter from the chairman of the committee arrived, I immediately handed over the report so that Parliament could see it. The Commissioner-General has indeed asked the AIG to investigate further the deontological, disciplinary or criminal offences. The audit report mentions suspicions in a general context. This preliminary investigation, which has now been requested by the Commissioner-General, will show whether effective disciplinary or criminal proceedings can be initiated. Take it from me that, if that is the case, we will not hesitate for a moment to initiate the prosecution. I want the police force, regardless of whether it's the local or federal police and any ranks within the federal police, to have an impeccable image. The majority of policemen deserve that. They are working daily on our safety, sometimes with danger to body and body. The police people deserve that their corps and their profession are regarded as honorable and not besmirched by a few. If the preliminary investigation shows that action is needed, this will also be done. The audit report, written only in Dutch, mentions, I quote: There are very strong suspicions of inappropriate behaviour, which are separate from the removal orders themselves, for example the application of sexual services during shipments abroad, fraud in the preparation of administrative documents, alcohol abuse, blackmail." These strong suspicions are based on different sources without any reference to concrete facts. I would like to stress that the report concludes very clearly that escorts carry out their repatriation missions in a professional and humane manner. It also includes 13 recommendations in the following areas: strategy and management, structure and organization, information and communication, leadership, culture and ethics, human resources and material resources. This audit was requested by the Commissioner General on 27 March 2014 from the Inspectorate General, which tabled this report on 5 December 2014. The report also includes a scoreboard for the implementation and monitoring of action plans. This has been defined between the Federal Police and the General Inspectorate. Follow-up work is therefore under way. It also refers to indications of misconduct or misconduct. These aspects will be the subject of appropriate procedures. The Commissioner General asked the Inspectorate General to conduct disciplinary or even judicial investigations as a result of the findings made. At this stage, the report speaks of suspicions or indications of fraud. He often uses the conditional. The investigation will have to determine whether disciplinary or judicial facts are proven. My services maintain regular working relations with the Secretary of State in charge of guardianship on the Office of Foreigners. Regularly, they meet at COOTER (Coördinatie Terugkeer) meetings for policy implementation and repatriation missions. The report also mentions this. To be complete, I will answer Mr Vanden Burre's first question again. Control of expense notes is carried out in accordance with internal directives of the federal police and is de facto carried out by an officer within the BruNat PCPA. Several disciplinary investigations have been conducted in recent years. Each year, the IGA was informed of these investigations. There is an internal audit service at the Federal Police. Since the Commissioner General requested an audit from the AIG, this internal department was not seized. I think I have answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u70	Each speaker shall have two minutes' speaking time in the replies. You have the floor first, Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u71	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Firstly, I am often told that there are some bad apples, people, individuals who have not done their job properly and against whom we have to act disciplinaryly and criminally. That could be. I hope that you will be able to clarify this and that you will be able to act, because that is not always so obvious. Secondly, it is about individuals, but I believe that it is also about structures, culture, deontology and leadership. I also hear from the media that there are letters pointing to three people regarding leadership and governance. They bear the ultimate responsibility and have not taken it properly. There are also signs that one of the rotten apples would work on the Secretary of State's cabinet. In the general interest, we need to clarify this further. Thirdly, an audit is always interesting. The most difficult thing is to implement the recommendations given the following day and to ensure that something changes in the long term, so that we do not have to find out in 2026 that an audit was ever carried out and then ask what happened to them. That's the big trap today. Minister, I would like to call on you to tackle the problem in a structural manner. I would remind you of the Vermeersch Committee, which has examined the problem of the repatriation and expulsion of migrants. She asked for a committee to be set up to carry out the evaluation and follow-up on a permanent basis. I would like that committee simply to be installed in support of policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u72	There may have been a misunderstanding. Last week I asked not only the conclusions, but also the content. You say you've given the conclusions. That's right. You gave me the conclusions, but I also asked about the content. Those abuses seemed to me to be an element that was important enough to mention, albeit not with all the details. You know that, Minister. Moreover, if you had told me in committee last week that there was a report but that you could not release it because it contained sensitive information, I would have understood that. However, you did not say that. I didn't know why I didn't get it either. Then let that be an explanation. Finally, you say you haven't seen much of me here. Mr President, I am known as one of the most active members of the Social Affairs Committee and also in this committee. Minister, it is true that I am dealing mainly with your colleague Theo Francken and that we may not see each other as much. However, I hope that we will be able to work together the times we see each other, including as regards the problem mentioned. Here we have a lot of work to do, here there is still a lot to do. There are still measures to be taken here. You will find an ally in us, including me. I would like to make it quite clear once again that I do nothing more than my duty as a Member of Parliament. This does not just mean submitting legislative proposals and proposing concrete measures. If I have to, I'll have to get some information, too. I will continue to do so in the future. In this regard, I would like to emphasise effectively that we need to tackle the problem now that it is known. We have to make sure the rotten apples don't affect the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u73	Minister, thank you. I heard your answers. In the name of good governance, good budgetary management, but also the image of the police, I think that you must remove these rotten apples as soon as possible from the police services, but also possibly from the office of Secretary of State Franken, if ever the police officer in question was there. I note that you have defined the audit report, which analyses what happened, as a "restricted" document and not as a "confidential or secret" document.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answers. If I were you, I think I would have done the same thing. Indeed, when there are insufficient documents or facts, caution should be exercised. However, the suspicions raised in the report are quite detailed. It is therefore necessary to allow the investigation to proceed. As soon as we know the results, we will obviously have to learn all the lessons. You can count on the PS group to ask yourself what you have done with the audit findings. I will come back, minister, to ask you more questions about the bonuses that are granted during these missions to the police officers responsible for this escort work. I would also like to know the overall cost, in order to know whether there is interaction. It was learned that this work was carried out for four months and that further tasks were then completed for two months at the airport. My goal is to understand all the mechanics. I will come back to that on a next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u75	Mr President, I did not want to speak at the outset. In fact, Minister, I wanted to first hear your answers to questions that are sometimes of concern, sometimes of febrileness. In any case, as a personal matter, I would be happy to confirm that you are not someone who is misled with information. On the contrary, when asked, you are very meticulous and respond point by point. I am not saying that you are satisfied with all the questions, but that is not necessarily your role. In short, you are committed to providing an answer to your questions. I've never taken you for lack of information, whatever it is. I want to say it here without any ambiguity. Secondly, what I've heard above all is that we're talking about the conditional. In times that run, when it is conditional, we must avoid drawing conclusions prematurely. We're talking about a police force. Of course, these people must be exemplary, but no less than the military, no less than the lawyers, the magistrates, than everyone else in the end. There would be abuses on the part of some. Personally, I did not do my religion on the subject today; there are suspicions, I hear it well. An investigation is under way, which will demonstrate this, if any. I invite you to exercise the utmost caution until the end of this investigation. But, please, let us not cast reproach on the whole body that we need today in the field of public safety for the misdemeanours that some may have committed. For these few, there are rules, possible and applicable sanctions, and I am confident that they will be applied where appropriate. In the meantime, I prefer to wait until this investigation is completed and its conclusions are available before I take a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u76	I am quite satisfied that both the majority and the opposition show respect for your caution in issuing such a report. What's an audit? In my view, an audit is a crucial document to initiate an improvement process. I think it is a very sensible decision by Commissioner-General De Bolle to proceed with such an audit, so that she can also initiate some sort of improvement process and filter out the rotten apples, the profitaries or excesses that are now being discussed. It has been proven once again: if an audit that can be limited in distribution is in the hands of a committee, we will find that report in the newspaper and in the media the next day. Sometimes it's a little crazy. It is mentioned in the newspaper. They go on and then we draw conclusions from it again. We will then find ourselves in very unfortunate one-liners, with which this debate has also begun today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u77	I don't know if I'm allowed to, but I want to do a factual correction. I made the report available to Parliament last night after the President's letter. The leak must have happened by another route, because it was in the paper the day before yesterday. I think we should be quite correct in that. I have no indication that the report has been leaked because it has been made available to Parliament. That is a factual correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u78	Minister, I would like to come to the following conclusion. We then get newspaper clippings, wherever the leak comes, on the basis of which we Members of this House draw our own conclusions; then we come to regretful one-liners. I also heard it a moment ago: 'This report is devastating for the police.' If I were part of those police forces, as one of those 138 employees, and I would work very hard and make sure that I could repatriate those people in a humane way, that could demotivate me. Then I'm worried about that, and then I might lose my motivation. This is a regrettable matter, but I am pleased that we have actually had a kind of topical debate today in order to neutralize it. It is quite clear that this sentence has only been said once. We're gonna have to figure that out. I think that everyone here is in favour of the greatest transparency, let us be clear. It is now up to the Commissioner-General to come up with certain plans. Putting the whole service on the same page, that's a very unfortunate matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic577x.u79	Mr Alain Top was present just now for his question No. 16100, but he was called away for another commission. Since he has not yet returned, his question will have to be postponed. Questions Nos 16126 and 16127 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou are postponed.
