ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u2	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, there have already been seven sessions that the Political Renewal Group is seeking to establish lines of strength for the moralization of public life. We must note that in other parts of the country, in the regions, in particular Walloon and Brussels, there is at least the beginning of reforms. Acts are taken by both governments and parliaments. Curiously, very curiously, while at the federal level, a leadership role should be taken, nothing like that! First of all, I welcome the contributions of the representatives of the various parties who want and wish to implement reforms in depth. The reforms deal with key issues: the status of the representative, the transparency of his remuneration, the prohibition of cumulations, conflicts of interest, which should be dealt with quite spontaneously, if only by reference to good practice, whether abroad or at European level. Quite curiously, we have a committee chairman who regularly finds that it is enough for a party to disagree – often his own – to say that, therefore, it does not go any further. This is not an acceptable method because it is not acceptable for the federal parliament, by the will of a party, to be held in check in its ability to set an example. So of two things one: or the majority finds the ways of understanding, because obviously it is a lack of confidence in the parties of the majority, or then you take over, Prime Minister, and you decide to convene the presidents or party representatives to carry out an ambitious reform of public life. However, after the Dutroux case, there was a Prime Minister who launched the reform of the justice system and the police by bringing together all the democratic parties around the table. No one could come to these negotiations without having the will to succeed. The circumstances would be exactly the same today. The will to succeed animates the opposition parties. It is deplorable that, in the end, a majority party is preventing progress. Are you finally going to set the tone for us to succeed in this negotiation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u3	Prime Minister, we must be aware of the scale of the crisis of confidence that citizens express in the political world. You personally supported the establishment of the working group; you said so in this forum. You had even made a commitment not to work on it in a majority-opposition logic. Today, I'm worried. According to the timetable assigned to it by the Conference of Presidents, this working group has six or seven weeks left to succeed. I must note that there is no great progress on important points. Of course, on details, we will make an electronic declaration. This will simplify the audit by the Court of Auditors, agreed. On the fundamental points on which the citizens expect us: full decumulation, the question of capping remuneration, the question of transparency, etc., even this was not possible last Tuesday. In committee, you have expressed your support for the introduction of the European system as the Greens call for for Belgium. Even that, within the working group, is not possible. I come back to you today hoping that you will be able to send two signals, make two commitments. Firstly, we maintain the timetable and you are the partner, the pilot who, within your majority, facilitates real progress, not on details, on central points on which the citizens expect us by the end of June. That's the first commitment. The second commitment I am asking you is that we step out of this majority-opposition logic and move forward with a coalition of those who want to modernise the institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u4	Prime Minister, whatever some of my colleagues say, the working group is working. It meets weekly and gathers results. My colleagues have cited a few examples. I will do the same: convergences in principle on the transparency of mandates and remuneration, the strengthening of the powers of the Court of Auditors, the register of lobbies, the presence of parliamentarians in committee, etc. In a unique configuration, in which all the political formations of this Parliament are equally involved, the chairman of our working group is endeavouring to organize our work with the necessary method and neutrality. Gathering all points of view - and there are many - is not always the easiest thing, each having its own sensitivity, but above all the desire to express it. I will not insult the other committee chairmen, whether they are from the majority or the opposition, who know how difficult this work is. We are talking here about the future of the functioning of our democracy. Yes, we have to move seriously. Yes, we have to move quickly. But it is not by attacking the chairman and the working group and going out to the press from the slightest divergence that this will promote the atmosphere within this working group or foster convergence. To do this is to sow the seeds of dissension. Mr. Maingain, Mr. Nollet, are you really thinking of moving things forward like this? By doing this, you certainly do not promote political renewal, but your personal promotion. Prime Minister, I come to my question. That has been said, you have called on Parliament to move forward on political renewal. At the federal level, we have heard and are working on this message. We hope that this will also be the case at the level of the federated entities, and in particular that the Walloon Region will do more than a facade renovation following the Publifin scandal. As far as the federal government is concerned, we are moving forward with ambition. Prime Minister, how do you envisage this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to join those who have expressed that we must have our eyes wide open and clearly measure that certain situations, in Belgium and in other countries, sometimes neighbouring countries, have shaken the confidence of citizens in democratic institutions. Responsible for both the majority and the opposition, our duty is to work, to take measures at all times, so that the democratic model is as virtuous as possible and can generate confidence. Our duty is to work continuously to achieve this balance; to fight conflicts of interest, to work for greater transparency; and at the same time - it is a balance to be made - to avoid widespread suspicion and voyeurism. This requires courage and responsibility. I am pleased that Parliament has decided to set up a specific committee dedicated to political renewal, as I was in favour. Two specific questions were asked to me. Mr Nollet, I am responding precisely to that. Yes, I wish the calendar was kept. I hope that decisions can be taken in the coming weeks. It would be a strong signal if, within a few months of intense parliamentary work, commitments and decisions could be implemented. Secondly, I would like this work to go beyond the majority/opposition divide. That's my wish. I am speaking to both the majority and the opposition in this rostrum. This implies that everyone is making efforts. If the opposition's reasoning is to consider that when one does not get 100% satisfaction, one disrespects it, then one will not succeed. Similarly, the majority must show its openness to hear the opposition's suggestions and proposals. We are at half the distance if I take into account the programme that had been envisaged. I hope that majority and opposition will have the ability to work together on as many points as possible, even if not on all. This is the logic of the democratic debate: one can share the objective but have different views on ways, modalities and concrete measures. Work is being done. I know that in the parliamentary committee, we are looking at what is happening abroad, on certain subjects, to feed parliamentary work. I hope that everyone will show courage and responsibility so that we can find each other and give a signal that meets the legitimate expectations of our fellow citizens and the democratic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u6	Prime Minister, your wishes are divided, but the reality is not that. What did we find at the last meeting of the working group? That a rule as basic as enforcing the limitation of the amount of remuneration to one and a half times the salary of a parliamentarian, which is still a reasonable and fair standard, could not even be unanimous in the working group. The N-VA strongly opposed this, because it did not want the special functions of parliamentary assemblies to be covered by this limitation. Read the press, she understands! To hear some, there would only be us who would not understand. The truth is the fact that even this rule was not accepted by a party of deplorable conservatism. Mr Calomne, I see that whenever the N-VA is called into question, it must not even defend itself. There's always a service RM to get to the stand! I must say that in the submissive genre, you are! Since you want us to put order...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u7	[[...]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u8	Yes, Mr. Miller!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u9	May I ask you to conclude, Mr. Maingain?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u10	Since you want order, Mr. Calomne, yes, we need order in Wallonia! Having said that, I found that the MR was just as responsible for some scandals as other parties in Wallonia. I won't forget it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u11	Prime Minister, I take note of your repeated commitments regarding the timetable and methodology. If we have invested in this working group, which we have asked for, it is of course because we are aware that our thirty-eight proposals would not be accepted as they are. We are lucid in this regard. However, with regard to the essential points on which we are all – all parties – expected by the citizens, I regret to have to tell you, Mr Calomne: at this stage, there is no real progress in committee. On cumulation, what is your proposal? What about transparency? Yes, Mr. Ducrame, you can inform him. Why is not what is possible in the European Parliament and what the Liberals accept and even defend and implement here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u12	The N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u13	Is that not enough, Mr Calomne? How much do you need? Of course, it's easy to talk about Publifin. Of course, we have to settle things in Wallonia. But a little modesty! In parliament, we also have a committee in charge of Kazakhgate. If you are, today, the lawyer of the N-VA, some have been lawyers of other people. We have no lesson to learn from you in this Parliament about the necessary progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u14	Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your clear answer. I even saw Mr. Nollet applaud you. [[That's right!]] Mr Maingain, Mr Nollet, I call for us to work together, constructively, to remove the divisions between majority and opposition rather than to spread in the press, as you do. When you don't have any more arguments, stay the insult. Mr Nollet, Mr Maingain, you are not, in my opinion, the best givers of lessons in political renewal!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u16	Mr Cheron, the strategy of small sentences is old politics and certainly not political renewal!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, you congratulate Emmanuel Macron in detail on his election, as an opportunity for Europe. The next day you will be flagged back by the Vice-President of one of your coalition partners, who says that your preference is europhile, while apparently they had made agreements in the context of the EU story within the government. A first question is therefore: what agreements are there about the EU story within your government? I must also point out to you, Prime Minister, that your view of the EU and of the Brexit has a rather far-reaching impact on Flanders. You know as I do that Belgian exports do not exist. Exports are Flemish: 84 percent of exports are Flemish. When we look at Britain, it even rises to 90%. We are the third largest exporter to Britain, after Ireland and the Netherlands. This means that in Flanders one in 40 jobs have to do with this. It is striking that when there is consultation on the Brexit between the Netherlands and Ireland, Belgium is not invited. The reason would be that Belgium is unreliable, which, of course, I cannot deny as a Flemish nationalist. I am therefore looking at Flemish Prime Minister Bourgeois, who quite rightly pleads for a soft Brexit: he does not want to compromise prosperity. The Michel administration, however, calls for a hard Brexit. So you are following Verhofstadt's euro film. Together with other EU Member States, you really want to subject the relationship with the British to very strict conditions. That's not the way to do it . We need bilateral multilateral agreements with Britain. That could save our prosperity. Prime Minister, I see the views of the Bourgeois Government and your government, which are quite different. My question is therefore: is there any consultation between your government and the Flemish Government on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, the French electorate has spoken, there is no majority in France for Marine Le Pen. Have all the problems been solved with that? No, not at all, but it is hopeful, because it shows that anyone who goes to the electorate with a positive story, with an open, consistent and complex story, can once again unlock faith in politics. That is exactly what we need in Belgium. We need parties and people who go beyond traditional politics and once again devote time not so much to fighting amongst themselves, I look at the members of the majority, but at solutions to the problems in our country. The new French President is for a strong European Union. Then it gets interesting. This week we have been able to read that the Eurosceptics in your government, the fellow members of the N-VA, find that dreamy. Now, they have gone astray. This isn't dreamy, this is realistic. For a European Union that is divided and less Europe will only weaken us. In a world like ours today, that is not the wisest thing to do. Countries such as Russia and China would be very pleased with less Europe and more division. However, the European engine is undoubtedly sputtering. There are too many people who are losing in today's Europe: their job, their pension, their security. We must be able to respond to these people, or else we will lose them in future elections in Europe. Prime Minister, there is therefore a need for more Europe, but above all an ambitious political, social and ecological Europe is needed. With the Europe of 27, we will not be able to do that. Green is a complex pro-European Union, but we need a core Europe to achieve that ambitious programme for people: the fight against social dumping, the fight for fair taxation in Europe, the fight for green energy, in full. So let us move forward with those countries that want to take those steps effectively. What possibilities do you see with the new French president? Do not wait until they call you, but take the phone yourself, call the French, call the Germans, call the Italians and make sure that we can have another Europe where people are proud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at European level this is indeed a very important moment, perhaps even a unique moment, to make good and necessary decisions. I'm trying to look at the future pragmatically. I am convinced that, in the context of the two major challenges facing Europe, namely the Brexit negotiations and the future project, it should be possible to take important steps in the right direction with a few countries, and also on the basis of a thorough consultation with, for example, the Visegrád countries. In this context, we have tried to play a leading role with the Benelux countries, for example by opting for a Europe of different speeds. This means that the 27 Member States must decide together as much as possible. If this is not possible, it must also be possible in a different way to meet a number of important challenges, such as more growth, more investment, more innovation, more security or European defence policy. A NATO summit will take place in Brussels within a few days, and that is also an important moment. Mrs Wouters, there is a permanent, qualitative and excellent consultation with the Länder on the future of Europe and on the Brexit negotiations. A few days ago I had a personal consultation with the Prime Minister of Flanders on the problem of the Brexit. There's no difference between us. We have jointly approved the methodology for starting negotiations and Michel Barnier has drawn up a strategy on behalf of the European Commission. The first phase consists of agreements on the modalities of separation and then, as soon as possible, there must be certainty about the future of economic and trade relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. So there is no doubt; things are clear. This might be the momentum, at least I hope so. I believe that it will be possible with Mr Macron and the other European leaders to make progress and conduct a thorough dialogue, as well as with those countries which are not spontaneously on the same lines. Combating social dumping, ensuring growth and investment and providing a future for the younger generations in Europe is indeed our responsibility. Without naivety and with a lot of realism, I am convinced that it is possible to make progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I have the feeling that the outcome of the consultation by the Flemish Government is interpreted differently than by your government. Therefore, Prime Minister, please look north. Look to the North, look to Ireland, to the Netherlands. Those are the partners we need for the Brexit discussion. However, you are rather looking at the South. You are looking at Mr Macron. And you are looking at Mr Verhofstadt, who has long lost the north. Look at the division of powers, Prime Minister. Foreign Trade is a Flemish competence and Foreign Affairs is a federal, while the Flemish share of exports is 84 percent. So I do not understand why some people are calling for a re-federalisation of foreign trade. That someone can be so crazy to put Flemish prosperity in Belgian hands, I do not understand. There is even a V-party today saying that in a confessional Belgium foreign affairs must remain at Belgian level. I don't understand that either. That's way out of my league. That's not confederalism. Then the situation remains the same. Flanders will remain unfinished for a long time, although that is of course not your problem, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have the opposition's support for a core Europe. Nationalism is turning back the clock. In the meantime, Europe has brought us a lot. I am thinking of 70 years of peace, which is not as obvious as we all think, of prosperity, of food safety and of a number of rules vis-à-vis multinationals. We forget that sometimes. However, Europe and the European Union urgently need a revival, in particular a human face and ambition at political, social and environmental level. You are right, we are now at a turning point and an opportunity is offering itself. If we do not implement the relance now, we will lose the plea next time. The voters of Marine Le Pen do not disappear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u22	Mr. Minister, when that famous Mr. Macron was elected President of the Republic last weekend, one of the first to welcome and congratulate him was the Prime Minister of Canada. He used the words "I look forward to working with that man." What this cooperation means at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, we now know in Flanders. The Canadian company Bombardier has now announced that it will move its production line from Bruges, Flanders, Belgium to France. This is a clean gift for Mr Macron, but it is a bad gift for the 160 to 200 Brugse, Flemish, Belgian workers, who risk losing their jobs. Your government, Minister, has immediately announced that you are the government of jobs, jobs and jobs that it would draw up a plan B and will try to save what is to be saved. Then the amusing colleague Bellot, the man who deals with railway contracts, comes into the picture. He will have to play the strict customer, but I believe that the people who are striking today at the gates of Bombardier in Bruges do not need a plan B and not an amable Mr. Bellot, but a plan A, and preferably another plan A+. In this respect, you are an experienced expert. In your previous life or lives, you have often had to experience in the manufacturing industry how companies from Flanders, in this Parliament, I have to say from Belgium, have withdrawn. You've had to see the way Renault pulled out. You've had to see the way Volkswagen pulled out. You've had to see how Opel pulled away. You have once in a while I will continue to be polite and do your best to change things, with varying success. Today, Minister, people are asking at the gates of Bombardier not a plan B, but a plan A+. What is your plan A+ for Bombardier and for the manufacturing industry in our country in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u23	Minister, last week it was announced that at least 160 redundancies will be made. In the Bruges region, at least 160 families see their income disappear. I am sure that you, together with your Flemish and federal colleagues, have negotiated well. You have received the European Executive Board and the International Executive Board of Bombardier. However, it remained with a deaf man's conversation. That raises the necessary questions for me. How do these multinationals deal with us and our workers and servants? Bombardier announced in a letter of intent that our double-deck trains will largely be built in Crespin. The day after this was already the case. The orders with who was going to build what were already hanging out. It was, as it were, premeditated. The SNCB, who placed the order, was not aware. Last year, Bombardier said that there would be at least 500 jobs in Bruges by 2020. Minister, I call on you to look at how we can deal with the slimming, hand-in-hand, across party boundaries and without blackmail. How can we ensure that the company can remain open? You've received the unions. They want to negotiate the future of their company together with the Flemish and federal government. Of course they want compensation. They probably think of training and retraining. It is clear, however, that the multinational is playing with our feet and does not take us seriously. That is why I would ask you to clarify four issues. How will you try to reduce the number of 165 jobs that will be lost? How can we compromise so that the establishment remains open? What about De Lijn's and SNCB's orders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u24	Mr President, Minister, it is exactly 99 days since I stood before you with the same concern and the same demand for the federal government to act to demand that contracts of which we are the client be carried out as they were agreed. The workers at Bombardier in Bruges got an ice-cold shower this week. 200 employees will lose their jobs and the rest may fear for his job. The European Executive Board repeats that they want to run the Bruges company from the French Crespin. We call that a place completely undressed. Minister, job security was promised in Bruges until 2021 possible, renewable until 2025, thanks to that order of the SNCB of 445 trains. The job guarantee was not even just a promise, it was written in writing in the addendum to the contract negotiated by the government, production of trains from start to finish in Bruges. An addendum is an official document which I do not need to explain to you with an agreement from both contractors. Mr Minister, 99 days ago you replied to me here in the hemisphere, and I quote: 'Pacta sunt servanda', agreements must be kept. I repeat, appointments must be kept, you said. On his question, I will receive the President of Bombardier Transportation Belgium tomorrow. We can't have a death home construction in Bruges. It can't be a sales agency. I will make a strong plea to keep industrial activity there and Minister Bellot has made clear agreements on the M7 trains. Today we see that the European Executive Board still wants to change the signed contract unilaterally. A contract with the signature of two parties is not a rag paper. I have two questions for you, Minister Peeters. How do you explain that your talks with the European Executive Board after 2 February to keep the full production of the SNCB contract in Bruges have not produced any results? You seemed sure of your play, on radio and on TV. What happened there that you seemed so sure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u26	Secondly, what further steps will you and the government take if you are a contractor and co-contractor to challenge this breach of contract and keep production in Bruges?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Lambrecht. That was a little too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u28	Minister, Bombardier Bruges' workers are currently on strike, notably because of a relocation – this is not the first – of the production of M7 cars produced for SNCB to Crespin in France. It is clear, and you know, that if this relocation takes place, it is the very survival of the plant that is in question, in a context where we see that the Canadian management of the Bombardier Group wanted to increase its remuneration by 30%. Minister, I have four questions on four different points. The first concerns the threat of closure. I have to tell you that the anger is great among workers who say "that they are fed up with the false promises of the government, a government that leaves factories closed with high levels of qualification and that simply offers outplacement as the only solution." My question on this point is clear. Will you require Bombardier to maintain its production in Bruges? Or will you only organize the funerals of these companies? The second point concerns the Renault law. The Renault law was violated. Why? Because in Crespin, it has already been announced that production will be relocated to France. Minister, what are you going to do about this violation of the Renault law? The third case is the contract between SNCB and Bombardier. In its contract with Bombardier, SNCB must give its consent in the event of a change of production site. This is the case if there is relocation. What will the SNCB and the government do to mark its refusal, under the terms of the SNCB-Bombardier contract? Finally, my last question concerns all the aid that this company has received at the social and fiscal level, in particular the famous notional interests created in the name of employment. For the last year alone, it is no less than 12 million euros of notional interest. This is a company whose profits amount to EUR 34 million before taxes and which has paid zero euros of taxes. Minister, will you require Bombardier to repay all aid received from the state?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 5 May 2017, Bombardier's management announced a collective dismissal of 90 workers, 70 servants and 40 temporary workers. As many speakers have stressed, this is a very negative and sad message for those involved and their families. Undoubtedly, the other employees are also seriously concerned about the future of their jobs. The Bombardier dossier has been going on for many years and many people, including SNCB, have made every effort to entrust the contract of the M7 trains to Bombardier and to obtain clear employment commitments from the company. They also made public statements that this could and would be achieved. Today, however, we note that Bombardier does not keep his word, which everyone regrets. Even if there is no game of blackbirds here, as Mr Demon says, we are faced with the announcement of the intention of collective redundancies. You ask what will happen next. Firstly, we have received the trade unions. It is the trade unions themselves who have said that they want to draw up a plan B in the first phase. You call that A+; you can call it as you wish. In any case, the trade unions are convinced that they can develop their own plan to maximise the employment of Bombardier by highlighting specialisations and other activities. The federal and Flemish governments have asked us to call that plan "A+" or "B," which is not so important to deliver and then they will see what else they can do. If the workers need to be retrained, then contributions can be given. If we have to take other initiatives, we will do so and develop that plan B further. Secondly, we want to have a very quick discussion with the Bombardier Summit. I do not know if Per Allmer is still the right partner, because he has said and promised a lot of things that he has not complied with. Perhaps we should talk to senior officials at Bombardier so that we do not run into the gas lantern again and get promises that will not be fulfilled afterwards. Steps are now being taken to speak to Bombardier at the highest level. Thirdly, we have already looked at this with lawyers from SNCB and the people of Bombardier. Last week, together with Mr Bellot, I invited the SNCB summit to make it clear again what the contract is like. Pacta sunt servanda. I keep repeating this here, but we need to be aware of our possibilities with regard to the contract. So, what's going on? That contract provides for the possibility for Bombardier to transfer the production of the wagons to another place, provided that SNCB gives the green light and the same quality is guaranteed. SNCB has not yet been asked to do so, whereas it would appear that production would be relocated in France. My colleague Mr Bellot and I are very much in the process of looking at the people of SNCB to see how we can deal with this in a legal way, which can then be discussed during maintenance. De Lijn has not yet decided on the allocation of an order to CAF. We have agreed with the Flemish Government, which is responsible for this matter, to see what is still possible there. Finally, we agreed with the trade unions that we should convene a new meeting after these elements. In these very difficult circumstances, the trade unions keep a cool head and do not take part in pointing fingers at those who have made mistakes. On the contrary, they are doing everything they can to ensure maximum employment. We're gonna put our backs on this together. I hope that politicians of any political level and any party will adopt the same attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u30	Minister, one would almost have wished that Mrs Marine Le Pen had become President of France. If that had become the case, a transfer from the production line from Bombardier to France would undoubtedly have been found politically incorrect and then that production line would have remained in Bruges in Flanders, Belgium; quod non, unfortunately. Minister, you are doing your best, but you are not doing your best. You must have ambition for the manufacturing industry in general. Today, of course, it is about 160 to 200 employees at the gates of Bruges, but it is also about the workers in the manufacturing industry whose jobs are threatened or for whom we may be able to create new jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs. Minister, if you make concrete proposals in this area, our group will support them with great enthusiasm. If you need inspiration and ideas, I'd like to give them to you and give them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your commitment. We were rolled by a multinational. Now we must try to provide answers to the question of how we can legally avoid the relocation of production to France with SNCB. I am glad, however, that you yourself say that members of the opposition should not just stand and shout, but that they should also think about the future of the Bruges company. I am confident that you will do what is necessary and will try to change the views of the multinational in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u32	Mr. Secretary, there is top quality in Bruges. There are top people working. There is knowledge and the very best know-how. In other words, I hear you saying this, which reassures me somewhat. What also reassures me is that I heard Minister Bellot on the VRT journal last Tuesday declare that French Crespin, if it gets the activities from Bruges, does not control that know-how. He literally stated that it doesn't have the necessary experience. You just agreed that that know-how would be necessary in order to be able to carry out the move contractually. So I fully support you. Let there be no doubt about that. We fully support you in giving a nogo to SNCB to amend the existing contract. I only ask that trains made to drive in Belgium be made here in Belgium, which is also included in the contract. Minister, I see your combativity here, which is fantastic. I ask you to take them to the European seat of Bombardier, with our support, to fight hard against the unjust, unilateral breach of contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u33	Minister, you say to us, "We are all fighting in the same direction." I hope I can believe you and I also hope that you will really fight with all the weapons at your disposal. One of these weapons is indeed the SNCB contract. You tell us to examine him with lawyers. In fact, I have the impression that it takes some time, but I hope it is not to tell us, at some point: "The lawyers felt it was too difficult. We are not going to follow this path." You're also talking about plan B. That means you're accepting relocation, if I understand correctly. As you know, relocation means, in the very short term, the closure of this Bombardier company in Bruges. You know that! That is the tax and social aid! Millions are given to multinationals in the name of employment. It's okay if they close. Now, what is the point of having a Renault law if a company can violate it all the time? Are there no possible sanctions, minister? Last but not least, I think that there is indeed a social tragedy, but also a waste, if this plant closes, compared to the workers of Bombardier Bruges, who are highly skilled and could be thrown away like that, like Kleenex, while they are a considerable contribution to our economy but also to our public transport, which are fundamental to the development of our climate-friendly society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u34	Mr President, yesterday, unfortunately, a report by Pano brought to light abuses in the interim sector. Social dumping within the borders of our own country. Interim workers exploited, resulting in health problems. In short, degrading conditions. In Belgium in 2017. This is not an isolated case, Minister. HIVA figures show that almost 75% of Interim Workers still work at the same company after three months with a day or week contract. For one third of them, this is still the case even after a year in the same company. It is clear that these are workers who create our prosperity but are under-protected by the government. These are vulnerable groups in the labour market. These are often young people with a migration background. It's also about 50-plussers. It's even about people who worked at Ford Genk, and I think they've been through enough trouble. They do interim jobs. There's nothing wrong with an interim job in itself. An interim job could be a springboard. However, the figures show that too often an interim job is not a springboard. As a result, these people are afraid of losing their jobs. Of course, they all want a steady job. To return the day after, they go far. They're gonna work with an ulcer, against doctor's orders, not to have to stay home anyway. Week after week, they are paid 60 euros too little, but they do not complain about it, so as not to hit their employer's chests. They do not dare to complain to the Labour Inspectorate in order not to be endorsed by their employer. Is this the type of jobs this government is so eager to create? Is the government proud that the number of interim jobs has increased so strongly in recent years? Is this the government's recipe for success? The urge for profit maximization is at the expense of those who work. Minister, self-regulation does not work in this sector. It is a core task of this government to protect those people. So my questions are simple: what will you do about them? How will you better protect these workers? Is this the type of jobs this government wants to create? How will you increase the effectiveness of the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u35	Mr President, Minister, yesterday's Pano reportage has been watched and has unleashed a lot of media reactions, including yourself. Following that Pano report, DHL Aviation started an internal investigation into possible abuse of daily contracts at Zaventem airport. The report revealed that 250 temporary workers would have worked with day contracts for weeks to months. The Standard, which calls itself a quality newspaper, titled "DHL uses modern slaves." Well, that's disturbing, isn't it? Before I come to my three questions, I'd like to outline a few things. I do not need to explain to you the correct definition of day contracts and the relevant legal provisions. You are undoubtedly familiar with the collective agreement No. 108 of 16 July 2013, which states that "next day contracts for temporary agency work with the same user are allowed only to the extent that the user needs and can prove flexibility in the use of such contracts'. I refer to Article 34 of the same collective agreement, which expressly states that 'the works council, or in the absence of a works council, the trade union delegation, shall be informed and consulted every semester on the use of successive daily contracts for temporary work'. That is a very important article. Finally, Article 35 contains self-regulation, whereby the works council or trade unions can refer abuses to the joint committee and even go to court. So you couldn't read the reactions of those directly involved in the media themselves, who went undercover or the hairdresser around the corner in the press. DHL itself denies and conducts an investigation and the labour inspectorate transfers the hot potato to the sector itself and the trade union. In this respect, I refer to the statements made by Mr Philippe Vanden Broeck. The workers themselves do not dare to complain and the unions have been saying that they have been fighting it for years, but that they are going to run head-on against the wall. Why do I get a Pontius Pilate feeling? All those responsible either blame themselves or wash their hands in innocence and the interim workers remain in the cold. First of all, do you believe that there is an abuse of contracts in this case? Will you also have an effective investigation on this as you announced? Secondly, are investigations being carried out on a regular basis for such abuses? Thirdly, on 19 May, I heard that the trade unions are organising a awareness campaign on temporary work, which shows that they are concerned with the problem. Do you believe that the trade unions have acted in a sufficiently efficient, decisive and forward-looking manner on this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u36	Mr Van der Donkt, we congratulate you on your maiden speech. That is why I did not interrupt you because your question was far too long. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u37	Mr Minister, you will no doubt have seen yesterday on the VRT the Pano report which revealed the abuses of daily contracts at the temporary agency offices. Unfortunately, this situation is a reality for thousands of workers in our country. The reportage has also revealed a lot of pain points. I'd like to list a few here. First of all, people get contracts only day a day. This means that people feel unemployed every day while they are working. Secondly, empty promises are being made. Work harder, don't be sick, don't stay home if you feel sick and you get a permanent contract. Eventually, that fixed contract is still absent and people are afraid not to get a contract the next day do not file a complaint or stay at home if they are ill. People have also indicated that they are tired, emotional and physical. Thirdly, Minister, above all, this situation affects people very much in their self-esteem. I do not believe that this is the definition that we have in mind when it comes to jobs. Fourthly, when people are eventually discharged, they have no rights: no cancellation fee, no reception fee, nothing. For years they were the best student, they have worked well and from today to tomorrow they are told that they no longer have to come. There is no one to explain to them why and there is no one to whom they can turn to defend their rights. Mr. Minister, Jobs, Jobs and Jobs was the slogan of this government. However, a figure that says that 100, 200 or 300 jobs have been added is not enough. Behind the numbers people hide and they ask for a full-fledged job. Interim workers are also workers who deserve respect and full working conditions. They do the same job as someone with a fixed contract, they don't ask for an interim contract. Interim work was created to solve temporary problems within a company. If we are talking about people who work one year, two years, three years, four years at a company with an interim contract, then someone in the hemisphere should tell me whether we are still talking about a temporary increase in work. It is high time these situations were tackled. People have done their utmost and all they ask for is a full contract, full working conditions and full respect. Minister, I have just one question: what are you going to do about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also saw the Pano broadcast yesterday, and I must honestly say that what was shown there is shocking. It is shocking that this can still take place in Belgium, I have no other words for it. There is a need to act, which is also very clear, assuming that what was shown there is reality. Maybe not just there, but also in other companies. I was informed yesterday about this broadcast and have already started an investigation by the administration into this company and other companies. After all, we have clear legislation in Belgium, especially with regard to successive day contracts: this is prohibited, unless in exceptional circumstances. If it is established that a person works with a day contract for seven months or more, day in that day out, that is not in accordance with the law. You referred to collective agreement No. 108. The social partners have agreed on this and there is a provision for monitoring and self-control, but when one looks at that broadcast, there is something that is not right. In addition to the investigation requested from the administration yesterday, I will also invite the social partners to ask them what happened to the collective agreement No. 108 is going on, because it doesn't work. Thirdly, on the basis of the results of research and consultation with the social partners, we will examine the extent to which adjustments should be made. After all, I found that, on the basis of what was agreed, the inspection did not initiate an investigation until after receiving a complaint. I understand very well that having to file a complaint for the person concerned means that he will certainly not get a day's contract anymore. So that point must also be looked at. Finally, this government is for job creation but, for the record, for quality job creation. We must pay due attention and take the necessary initiatives to create decent jobs that can be sustained. It should not be about jobs as shown in the reportage, where months are worked on a piece with day contracts. On the positive side, the social partners have signed another collective agreement, starting from July, whereby a contract of fixed duration must be offered after a period of more than 180 days with successive contracts. So steps have been taken in the right direction. Nevertheless, there is a problem, but I will deal with it. The meetings have been held and we will take action on the basis of research and consultation with the social partners. I want to give a clear signal that it is important for the government, and for me in particular, to create quality jobs for a maximum number of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u39	Mr President, Minister, this is a major political problem, because those involved really feel that they are being abandoned by the government. The only thing that this government has done so far is to increase flexibility, but it has not thought about how it can create more job security for people with precarious statutes. The result is social dumping, in this country, within the borders of our own country. That's not human, and that's not healthy. Minister, if self-regulation does not work, we need political action. We have plenty of proposals. I am very sorry that we need a report from Pano in order, hopefully, to finally remedy this. This situation has been going on for years, but it has to stop here and now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u40	Minister, we hope, together with you, that there will be speedy clarification, because it is completely inconceivable for us that working ethics should not be respected in our society. That word must be borne in mind by us. If your research reveals abuses, it is clear that the envisaged self-regulation does not really work. In our view, the trade unions would have grossly underestimated their role in this matter. We therefore expect an in-depth investigation and look forward to the outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u41	Minister, all the workers in our country are happy to hear you say that you are going for quality jobs. I'd love to hear you say it, too. You say that the legislation already exists today, but something else is happening. You say that the social agreements are there, but something else is happening. There is self-regulation, but something else is happening. The legislation is there, the will is there, Minister, but still a lot of workers experience something different every day in the workplace. I welcome your call and will question you again before the summer. If you lack inspiration, Minister, I have already tabled a legislative proposal in which employees can work for up to two months with an interim contract within three months and they are then regarded as full-time employees. I will return to your statements before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u42	Minister, thank you for coming to Parliament just for me today. Your dedication is my pleasure. I'm coming to you about your civil protection reform. A few weeks ago, in the Committee on the Interior, you told us that the choice of the two remaining barracks in the country was stopped. These will be the barracks of Brasschaat, a commune of which you are the mayor, and of Crisnée, the commune of our colleague Goffin. You told us that there would be an enhancement of the status of federal civil defence barracks officers who would like to leave for emergency areas. I remember that negotiations with staff were not going well. I learned that the union organizations, the CGSP and the CSC, would have left the negotiating table because the texts concerning the future status proposed to them are far from what was originally announced. In addition, elected representatives of other parties of your majority contradict your comments on the ground. For example, in Mons, an MR communal advisor met with the staff of the Ghlin barracks stating that there would be significant activity on the site. In Jabbeke, it seems that, despite your comments in committee, we would maintain unity in a lasting way. These assertions cause trouble. Minister, we therefore need clarification from you. When will the Council of Ministers take a decision on the final choice of the two barracks in question? You may have read the press, the municipality of Liedekerke and the city of Mons will refer this decision to the Council of State. In line with what Mr Bouquez has said, will there still be an activity at the Ghlin barracks? Will there still be an activity in Jabbeke? Have negotiations with staff resumed? Is it true that the status proposals are less favourable than what was originally intended?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u43	Mr Thiébaut, it is with great pleasure that I come to Parliament to answer questions that have not yet been asked in committee! I will provide you with the committee's report, because most of your questions have already been answered several times. There he is! Please read it. I am now answering some of your questions. First, we have already met with the unions. During this meeting, one of the union groups left the table but we will continue with the other three groups. The fourth one is also welcome next week. We will discuss on the basis of texts which are not to be taken or left to be taken, but which provide a basis for negotiation with a view to proposing a statute for civil protection officers, which is quite comparable to that of firefighters. The negotiation will also cover a possible transitional period. That is the goal and we will stick to it. The political decision on the barracks is made in Kern. We don't need to change a law. It is only my competence and we have this agreement between the different groups. With regard to the two barracks specifically mentioned, Jabbeke and Ghlin, we will leave a few activities in the region, not in civil protection, but we will transfer the tasks related to the sea and the tasks, for Ghlin, which are linked to the Shape, to the relief areas. If some people have another speech, it is that they are not very well informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u44	Minister, you will have noticed that I am still present in the Committee on the Interior. I'm paying attention to what you're responding to. You have said things that you have not yet said in the Committee on the Interior, in particular on negotiations with the trade unions. They had not yet taken place when this commission was held. So we couldn't have known at that time. But I am not a minister, and we still have the right to question the ministers, I think! It is good to clarify the statements made by some colleagues in the MR. At least we stop letting people fantasize on the ground, and make them look at things that are not right. In my first question, I asked you what was the date of the decision and you did not answer me either. I do not think that was requested in committee. Maybe when we drink a drink at the cafeteria, you'll tell me exactly the date of the order that will be taken for the choice of the last two barracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u45	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, in this House, no one knows who Dr. Mukwege is, the man who repairs women and who, on a daily basis, works with his entire team, to treat women who have been raped, victims of barbarism in Kivu and whose action is recognised internationally. He does it at the risk of his life. In recent years, he has been constantly threatened and has escaped several assassination attempts. Minister, if I ask you, it is because UN peacekeepers no longer provide permanent protection for Dr. Mukwege. Previously, escorts protected him in his private travels. This is no longer the case today. Yet the threat is permanent. She didn't diminish in any way. One of his team's doctors was murdered a month ago. Thus, there is a real step backwards from the protection that had previously been afforded to him. He's at very high risk. It is obviously incomprehensible and unjustifiable. Minister, are you aware that Dr. Mukwege and his team no longer enjoy the same permanent protection from the UN, while serious threats to his life and that of his team continue? Why has his protection been reduced? When are you going to intervene personally, but also with your European colleagues, at the UN to make a decision so that the Blue Helmets constantly guarantee the maximum safety of Dr. Mukwege and his team? Belgium needs to mobilize urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo remains more than worrying, not only politically, as evidenced by the constitution of the new government, but also on security. In particular, it is human rights defenders who pay the greatest price: those who help civilians in the face of the political stalemate and armed conflict that persists in this country. In this context, Dr.Mukwege, the 2014 Sakharov Prize – this man who repairs women and fights rape as a weapon of war – is an emblematic figure in the struggle for human rights and barbarism that threatens the lives of many women, her patients, but also her life and that of her colleagues. This danger is a constant one, particularly in the Kivu region. We are now learning that the United Nations peacekeepers would no longer provide permanent protection for the doctor. This is a unilateral and incomprehensible decision that requires a strong response. I recall that Belgium is still active in MONUSCO. Minister, I would like to ask you three questions. Do you have any additional information on this subject? Will Belgium intervene to protect these lives, which are in danger today? If so, how? Through our position in MONUSCO, is political intervention possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly familiar with Dr Mukwege's situation. I received him many times and visited him at the Panzi Hospital. However, I would like to point out that Belgium has taken steps to protect him, inter alia, since he has already been attacked near the hospital. I personally intervened to ensure that MONUSCO put these protective measures in place around the hospital, around its residence and in all its travels, including to the airport or to other parts of the city. We are well aware of the situation. My services have frequent contact with Dr. Mukwege. You're asking me about the current situation. MONUSCO denies that it wants to withdraw the protection from Dr. Mukwege. The protection of the Panzi Hospital, the doctor's residence and the protection of his person is ensured by several teams of private security officers, as agreed with him, who work closely with MONUSCO. The security of any movement outside the hospital is ensured by MONUSCO police escorts. However, I remain convinced that the mandate of MONUSCO allows us to do more, to go further. We did not wait for this news to act. The services, whether in New York, the Security Council or Kinshasa, have already taken steps to ensure that this protection remains in the hands of Dr. Mukwege and, if necessary, that it is strengthened. We will continue to work in this direction. In the light of the steps currently being taken, I intend to ask our representatives in the Security Council, in an open debate scheduled for 15 May on conflicts, and in particular on the situation of women in conflict, to pay tribute to the doctor's work and to plead for maximum protection. I would like to conclude by telling you that we are obviously at Dr. Mukwege's disposal if he needed help. When he was subjected to violence and one of his relatives was shot dead some time ago, we took him out of the country via our embassy in Bujumbura. Be assured that we are doing everything, as we have done to obtain this protection, so that it can be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u48	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, you seem to say that Dr. Mukwege's protection has not been reviewed. I cannot fail to take into account the information that I have received from his entourage; that is not how they are living things today. His protection has been changed very recently. While he was due to return from the airport, the escort assigned to him was simply cancelled 48 hours before, without any alternative, while he had to travel a distance of 100 kilometres and cross a particularly dangerous area. The facts are here. His loved ones are terribly worried. I solemnly ask you to contact Dr. Mukwege's entourage and intervene at the UN level to ensure that the peacekeepers provide this maximum security. This is his life and his work with the women raped in Kivu. There is also the life of all these women he saves and heals; 40,000 have already been treated by his team. Minister, I am counting on you to speak to the United Nations with your European colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for these points of answer. The least we can say is that obviously the blurry persists. I heard what you told us. I hope they're proven. I have no doubt, and I ask you strongly, that you will take all the necessary contacts to ensure that the information that has come to us is indeed false and that the safety of the doctor, his relatives and his patients is always assured today. I have heard that this is the objective you wish to defend. I want you to know that it's also my group's. We will support you in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u50	Mr. Chair, earlier we heard the Prime Minister talk about conflicts of interest in the debate on renewal. That is why I put the question to him. This is indeed a conflict of interest with Minister Reynders' chief of staff, who is also a member of the Bertrand Ackermans family, in the top 10 of the richest with €1.6 billion in wealth, shareholder of Ackermans & van Haaren (AVH) and also administrator of AVH. As soon as she became chief of your office, minister, the press pointed the problem out. I quote La Libre Belgique in 2015: "This situation raises the question of a potential conflict of interest, while Alexia Bertrand is called upon to negotiate the government's economic reforms at the highest level. The firm tells us that Alexia Bertrand will remain an administrator." You have therefore maintained both its position in the firm and its position on the board of directors of Ackermans & van Haaren. The same article already pointed to a conflict of interest in 2013 in the bank file since, at the time, she was a trader in your firm. Recently, two articles were published in two weeks in Le Vif/L'Express on a possible conflict of interest in offshore wind, where DEME, a subsidiary of AVH, is active. Yesterday, we learned a possible conflict of interest on the question of Saudi Arabia, because this company has interests in Saudi Arabia and it is looking at the current modernization of port structures. In these cases, there is a certain passivity on your part with regard to wind energy, and in Saudi Arabia's case, you have deviated the whole question about the arms industry, leaving the other industries on the side. Minister, have you taken steps to avoid any conflict of interest in the files cited by the press? How many cases of potential conflicts of interest with Alexia Bertrand have you experienced in other cases, which the press would not know? Do you feel that the position of your chief of staff is still tenable, especially in view of the diversity of the sectors of AVH? Can you assure us that a new problem Alexia Bertrand is not going to happen in the future? My last question was to the Prime Minister and was about renewal. I'm not going to ask you, Mr Reynders, because I don't think it's you that I have to ask about political renewal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u51	Mr Van Hees, first of all, transparency. Everything you have just described is published not by the press but because forms are filed with the Court of Auditors and are taken over by sites such as Cumuleo. Everything is done in full transparency. This is the first step taken and must be taken. Secondly, I am used to going further with my collaborators: by analogy with company law, they make known potential conflicts of interest and are obviously not in charge of cases where these conflicts could arise. Thirdly, I am fully prepared to implement any new provisions or recommendations that might emerge from the work of your Assembly with regard to political renewal, but the situation is clear, transparent and well-known. On the other hand, for the rest - but I've gotten used to it - you've made yourself the specialist of ad hominem attacks and in this case also ad mulierem. This simply gives a very good idea, Mr Van Hees, of how your political formation behaves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u52	Mr Minister, if I follow you, it is enough to say, 'Here, there is a possible conflict of interest', so that there is no longer any conflict of interest. You just have to say it, and then there's nothing left. I feel like it's a little short! I asked you about the files in the press. You didn't say anything! You have clearly avoided any answer to the questions I asked you. You are talking about transparency, but transparency is about silence, if I understand you correctly. It happens that Ackermans & van Haaren is a multiplicity of sectors: banking, dredging, energy, transport, real estate. In virtually every case, there are potential conflicts of interest. You have a general problem or you have to get your chief of staff out of all the files. I wonder how you manage to do that. I asked you specific questions. No answer. Somewhere, I understand, because maybe you're a little ill-placed to teach your chief of staff about conflict of interest. Mr Minister, I would remind you that in 2001, when you were Minister of Finance, you were both the administrator of a coordination centre in Carmeuse, and you yourself were the one who brought the charge against the decision of the European Union to put an end to the coordination centres. You had both caps at the same time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u53	That's absolutely not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u54	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal to do in recent weeks about policy and Belgian policy towards Saudi Arabia and women's rights. We can only repeat that we regret the pro-Saudi Arabian vote, both from our group and from the government, but let us make the need a virtue and look for and see the positive and optimistic in this story. We all know that Belgium has an excellent reputation in terms of women's rights. I am referring, among other things, to your colleague De Croo's "She Decides" initiative. As Belgians, we must have a leading role in the area of women's rights. One of the discriminatory laws that I want to talk about now is the ban on women's sports stadiums, both in Iran and Saudi Arabia. However, this discrimination runs counter to the Olympic Charter. I quote: "The practice of sport is a human right." Every individual must have the possibility of practicing sport, without discrimination of any kind, in the Olympic spirit of friendship, solidarity and fair play. Why am I talking about that? Darya Safai, a leader in women's rights, will have a meeting next week with the IOC in Paris, following the prayer book of Paris, as host city for the Olympic Games in 2024. The stadium ban is unacceptable to me and our group. I think it means that it is no more or less than an apartheid regime. It is scandalous that sport, the ultimate means of connecting and integrating people, is used to separate people. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, does our country support the call for IOC and sports associations such as FIFA to increase pressure on Iran and Saudi Arabia to lift the ban on women's stadiums? If so, how will we do that? Secondly, will our country, in cooperation with the European Union, directly advocate this with the IOC and FIFA? Thirdly, do we include this ban in our direct diplomatic contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u55	Mr President, Mr Janssens, first of all I would like to say that we support the demand of all sports federations. We will take an initiative at bilateral level, but also with our European colleagues. As far as Darya Safai's various actions are concerned, I know some of her actions, but so far there has been no contact between my services and Mrs Darya Safai. However, I am prepared to contact her. I've asked my services to do this. We will see if it is possible to support her in one way or another. Mr President, we have had a debate on this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would therefore ask you to raise a number of dossiers there and not ask a question in plenary week after week. I am prepared to hold a very general debate on Saudi Arabia or another country. We started with this and I believe that this question is appropriate in such a wide-ranging debate. I repeat that we support all the initiatives of the sports federations. We support this at bilateral level and with the European Union. We are also prepared to support Mrs Darya Safai in her fight in Iran and Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u56	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I believe that not only the sports authorities should do their job, but also politics should come up with a number of solutions. I very much appreciate your proposal, and I will also say this because I believe it is in the interests of everyone that it can be done in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u57	Minister, last May we were still under the spell of long-term strikes in French-speaking prisons, with many consequences. For example, the police and military had to take over the duties of guards. At a demonstration, your cabinet was destroyed, and prisons were also damaged. The basic rights of the detainees were also violated at that time. A large number of procedures have been launched against this. In 2016 alone, 404 files were opened requesting damages and periodic penalty payments. There was therefore also a price tag attached to these strikes. There is a measure that can limit the consequences, namely the provision of guaranteed services. This has already been discussed with former Justice Ministers De Clerck, Turtelboom and you. Guaranteed services are also included in the coalition agreement. The European Committee on the Prevention of Torture also calls for this measure to be introduced in Belgium. Minister, I have asked questions about this before. In December, you spoke of "b" within a few months and in March you said "b" to summer. I don't know what the weather is now, but when I got up this morning, it was pretty warm and the sun shone. I feel the summer's getting closer. That is why I am asking you the following very simple questions. Minister, what is the state of play in the legal proceedings in which periodic penalty payments and damages were requested? Those procedures should now be in the final stage, in degree of appeal. What will that cost us in the end? Secondly, much more important for the future, what is the state of play in the negotiations you are conducting on the guaranteed service? When do you plan to land? Are there any lyrics yet? If so, what specific principles are you negotiating at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u58	Minister, in the spring of 2016, our country experienced a particularly long strike in prisons. Two summons were issued, in the Walloon Brabant and in the province of Liège, with minimum conditions of detention, namely three meals a day, one hot, access to showers, walks and visits by lawyers and families. All this had to be done by the directors, the non-strikers, the Red Cross, the police, the army and civil protection. Today, the press learns that the sentences have fallen: 78 prisoners have won on appeal, an appeal that had been brought by the State, with sums ranging from 250 to 500 euros per day and a maximum ceiling of 5,000 to 7,500 euros. It's huge! I also read that some lawyers are prepared to go as far as the seizure of FPS Justice property to ensure that these amounts are paid. The lack of guaranteed service in prisons is incompatible with human rights. People who are locked up have only one solution: to trust outside services so that they can see their rights recognized. In this decision of the Court of Appeal, it is clearly stated that Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights was violated because human rights were not respected. Minister, have you anticipated from a budgetary point of view the condemnation of the state today? What is your position in your negotiations on the guaranteed service, which is clearly contained in the government agreement and which was also included in a notice of formal notice to the Belgian State since 2010? What's your status in your announced appointment clauses?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u59	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, Mr Goffin, the Brussels Court of Appeal ruled on the periodic penalty payments made in connection with the prison staff strike in May and June 2016. Following this judgment, as in the case of the other judgments issued by the various appeal courts, it is necessary to determine the amounts to be liquidated in practice for each detainee within the limits set by the judgment, i.e. 250 euros per day with a ceiling of 5,000 euros per prisoner. In the event of a dispute, the judge should be asked to determine on a case-by-case basis the amount due. At this point, we're making the count. I am therefore unable to tell you what amounts will eventually be paid. I hope that this will not jeopardize the Justice budget; but, honestly, Mr. Goffin, I do not believe it. The payment of a periodic penalty payment of 750 euros was made only once. This was an isolated case. The Belgian State had been convicted because medical care could not be provided. With regard to minimum services, I have recently received the visit of the Strasbourg Human Rights Commission against torture. It goes without saying that I told her the same thing I told you at the meeting of the Justice Commission on 15 March 2017, namely that it is and remains my ambition to have, together with the social partners, a framework agreement to ensure continuity of service in prisons by the summer of 2017. As usual in such negotiations, they do not go public. However, you can imagine that there are texts and that they are spoken on the basis of texts. Mrs De Wit, thank you very much, Mr Goffin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm learning that you don't know the amounts yet. I also assume that they will not endanger the budget. However, it is money that could perhaps have been spent differently if we had already introduced the minimum service. About the guaranteed service or minimum service you announced at the time the hink-step jump at the Justice Department. We have also hacked, stepped and even jumped a lot together and reformed a lot. Minister, the hurdle of minimum services must also be taken very urgently. They've been surplaced for far too long. Mr Minister, if the negotiations do not succeed, which can always be done, Parliament must take the lead. Our bill is ready. There is only a very short list of countries where there is no minimum service or guaranteed service. We only have the company of Albania. I would very much like to see our country removed from that list.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u61	Minister, thank you for your clear and reassuring answer. I'm glad to hear you're making good progress. I also understand that this kind of negotiation is not taking place in the public square, but in the discretion of the public in the name of a concern for efficiency. We therefore look forward to what this guaranteed service can offer very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u62	Mr President, Minister, this week the alarm bell was sounded about the DAVO, the Alimony Claims Service at Finance, which pays advances on maintenance money, but also has to recover maintenance money from creditors. The problems are next. The number of offices would be reduced from 23 to 11 from September onwards, i.e. one per province and the offices would be transformed into multivalent centres, i.e. with a wider range of activities, which allegedly would raise the threshold sharply. The DAVO has been in existence since 2004. I've been following this file for a while. I note that we have reduced the threshold, for example by raising the wage threshold to EUR 1 800 in 2014, with the result that advances have increased twice as quickly. For the sake of clarity, the DAVO not only pays advances on maintenance money to the creditors. An important task is also to recover the maintenance money. These figures, which you gave me last year, look bad, not to say dramatic. Between 2005 and 2015, the DAVO paid out 200 million and recovered only 54 million. This is a recovery rate of 27 %. Minister, how do you respond to what we have heard this week, in particular that the threshold is being raised and the accessibility of the public service is under pressure? Are you working on initiatives to improve recovery, bearing in mind the poor figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, like you, I have read these reports in the media, which imply, or would indicate, that there would be a reduction in the services provided by the DAVO or is already under discussion. Well, I can assure you that is absolutely not the case. It is our firm will to make accessibility as accessible as possible. The 11 contact offices mentioned, we define as intake offices with a back office where employees can help people with questions about content. The location of the offices is based on two criteria: population density and accessibility via public transport. The actual recovery will not take place through these offices, but through multi-purpose offices that also recover in other areas, such as tax debts. I am convinced that this will improve the efficiency of recovery at the various levels, including DAVO, so that we can hopefully get an improvement in the figures, which you rightly say should be better. For me, perhaps the most important thing in the whole of the issue is that we also implement the simplifications and the digitisation that we carry out throughout the FPS Finance, in the DAVO. The administration has already developed web forms to make the application for compensation and to extend and extend the granting of advances. In addition, there is a lot of information there we have just based on what we do with Tax-on-web.................................................................................................................................................................................... For those who still need help in completing the application, the OCMW will provide assistance. The web forms and the establishment of the information centres were explained to OCMW representatives on 31 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u64	Minister, maintenance money goes for everything, says the rule of law. This means that maintenance money must initially be paid by the parent and not by the State, not by the taxpayer. There are already a lot of means to implement that principle. I am thinking of payroll and pay delegation, which is mandatory if two months' maintenance money is overdue. Nevertheless, if it is not possible to collect the maintenance money from the parent, there must be an efficient public service that helps the people. You have confirmed today, Minister, that accessibility is not under pressure, that you are also guaranteeing that the poor rates of recovery will improve with the information centres you referred to, and that computerisation should improve accessibility. You've reassured me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u65	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this weekend's incident in Tongeren is the reason for my question. We have read about this in the press. There is the version of the father and also that of the social inspection services. According to the latter, one of the inspectors was knocked over. It was only after that that the boy was asked who he was. Those are the facts. I wasn't there myself, and I'm not judging. You're the competent Secretary of State. You have that task in the government. You responded on Twitter with "helpenisnormal." You used this to describe the fact that children are allowed to help their parents. My question is whether, as the competent State Secretary, you have any indications that your services have a PV or have been prepared for children who help their parents. A second aspect, which you undoubtedly regret in the meantime, is your statement that child labour is absolutely not a priority for those inspection services. Minister Peeters mentioned a bad signal. I do not think you meant this at all. However, I would like to hear you clearly say that child labour is indeed a problem, otherwise we will have a problem among ourselves. Finally, I come to the substance of the matter. Apparently, the lady from the social inspection is four days' work incompetent. I believe that as a political officer for your services, you should have first informed yourself about the events and then, as the competent Secretary of State, to defend your services. Together, we have planned many actions in the fight against social fraud. To what extent is your relationship with the social inspection currently being developed? How do you intend to fix this? Did you or did you not apologize? Finally, you said you were working on a charter between entrepreneurs and inspection services. This charter should spare employers who act in good faith. How exactly do you see this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u66	Mr. Secretary of State, your little picture on Twitter was touching. Of course, we all have photocopiers like this. I come from a family of 10 children and my father was a potato dealer. So we all helped at home. Sometimes from early morning to late evening during the season. I didn't get anything out of it, and it wasn't child labour, I never felt that way like you. So there can be no misunderstanding about that: helping at home cannot be a problem. On the contrary, that is part of a good education pattern. However, what we read in De Standaard and hear about the incident in Tongeren has nothing to do with that. If it were true that you, as Secretary of State, created fake news and set up a Twitter campaign on it, that would be unacceptable. I even think it's a blow below the belt for the people of the Inspection who are doing their job. So the question is: what exactly happened, Mr Secretary of State? In what context did something happen there? Is it true that the garage owner became very aggressive for no reason and that one of the inspectors was unable to work for four days because a table was pushed against her? Is that right? Is it true that the control was absolutely not about child labour but was a check on undeclared work? If our information is correct, you have presented the facts unilaterally and wrongly. I do not think it is acceptable for you to treat your own officials in this way. I believe that a Secretary of State responsible for the inspection services should defend his officials. Is it true that you were already aware on Tuesday afternoon that you have been informed of the correct facts? Have you received a report from your services on this? Then how come, when you had that information, you and your party continued with your Twitter campaign as it was conducted? I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to be clear about this incident. If it is true that the facts were different from what you suggested, it would be a good thing for you to publicly apologize to your people here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u67	Thank you very much for these questions, ladies and gentlemen. I have seen the first reports on this on Monday evening. I immediately, as always before I communicate, consulted with my services. The public communication that was already spread from the services at the time was: yes, there was a demand for child labour. At that time, it was also said by the services that boys who work there are covered by child labour. I said that I think that is perfectly normal, just as Mr Vercamer thinks it is perfectly normal, and just like Mr Geerts and I believe that everyone in the hemisphere thinks it is perfectly normal for young girls and boys to lend a hand to parents or grandparents. That's gotta be perfect. This is perfectly normal and does not fall under the definition of child labour laid down by law. In doing so, I wanted to engage in a broader social debate. Do we think this is an issue? Do we think this is a problem? Do we think this is a priority of our inspection service? I say, no, I think it's perfectly normal for young guys to help out like that. There are more than a thousand inspectors out there every day. They are day and night to fight social fraud together. The essence is that we all agree that the fight against social fraud is an absolute priority of this government. We fully support all inspectors in this. We have made reforms. There are 100 additional inspectors on the premises. There is a clear action plan with priorities. Look at the results on the field. Transport and construction are finally being tackled, which tackles social fraud and ensures fair competition. That is the support we give to the inspection service, and that is, as far as I am concerned, unconditional. However, I also think it should be clear that there are priorities. I would like to avoid the situation I experienced in Tongeren in the future. For checks must always be carried out with mutual respect. Entrepreneurs and self-employed people must realise that these controls are necessary to ensure that action can be taken against undeclared work, social dumping and trafficking in human beings. We all agree on that. But that's the other way around. Inspectors must also approach entrepreneurs with respect. After all, I get regular comments and examples, not only in this case but also in other cases, for example from UNIZO and entrepreneurs themselves, who tell me that there is a problem with how action is being taken. I think I did the right thing. At the beginning of the week I contacted my inspection service and asked to discuss this together tomorrow morning, to see what the facts are, what the deal is, to talk about it. I also want the coalition agreement, which we agreed on together, Mr Vercamer, to be implemented. It says literally: "In the case of checks, the proper functioning of the business and the customers must be respected, as well as the proper handling of the staff and owners of the business.' It is therefore important that we establish this in a charter. I think the lack of mutual respect should stop. We must ensure that inspectors and entrepreneurs treat each other with mutual respect. That is why I proposed bringing everyone together tomorrow and starting with the drawing up of a charter. The essence for me remains that this government has a clear priority that we must all, together with the inspection services, with the trade unions, with the employers, fight against social fraud, against social dumping. That is and will remain a priority. In this respect, we support our services 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u68	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my questions have actually been about your role in the past few days. You say you've consulted with the services before you started that campaign. Well, the services have formally explained something else in the press as well as elsewhere. The services say that the competent member of the government is putting them back in their shirt. There was Jambon and the liaison officer. There was Reynders and the cabinet. Once again, this government puts its own services in their shirt. You mentioned an "absolute priority." So don't lose them. The discussion about helping is normal, but aggression isn't normal, is it? You didn't say a word about that. You will not get the word "excuse me" for those people. Your government is led by a blue Prime Minister, yet I get the impression that today a blue bird is the prime minister of several State Secretary who first tweet in 140 characters, before they realize what is actually happening on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u69	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, but it is incomplete. Of course, we agree that social fraud needs to be tackled, but you were already aware of what happened on Tuesday. It is unacceptable that you would continue to do so, and that you would run a Twitter campaign on behalf of the staff. That's why I want to be clear. We need to get a report on what just happened. The report should be made public and handed over to the President of the Chamber and to the Committee in order to clarify it. If it turns out that you've gone out of communication, you should at least get excuses over your lips and say to those people: "I'm sorry, but I've been deceived." I apologize. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u70	Mr President, I would like to take the floor on the order of business. Mr Vercamer has made a relevant suggestion. He addressed them to you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u71	I've taken note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u72	I therefore ask you to agree with the Secretary of State that we will be able to receive this report over the next few days and that you, as President of the Chamber, have the report delivered to the 150 Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u73	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u74	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ten years ago, in May 2007, three laws against discrimination and racism were enacted: the laws "racism", "discrimination" and "gender". The aim was to protect people who were victims of discrimination and was a real step forward, since Belgium was even considered, because of this legislative system, to be exemplary at European level. This anniversary therefore gives us the opportunity to evaluate it. To this end, a report by Unia (Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities) has been sent to us. The known case law and seventeen thousand cases are reviewed. A rather mixed finding emerges from this. In addition, Unia makes 27 recommendations, such as a higher lump sum for victims, increased penalties for hate crimes, clarification of the assumptions of action, etc. On the other hand, Le Soir announced yesterday that a preliminary assessment report by the independent expert committee mandated by Ms. Sleurs should contain even more overwhelming conclusions. Thus, it states that nothing would have been done to achieve the initial ambitions. In this regard, no Royal Decree has been filed to enforce certain legal provisions. In addition, the report notes that the above-mentioned laws lack effectiveness and that, for example, three-quarters of cases brought before a criminal court for discrimination are dismissed for lack of technical reasons. In other words, many people are underprotected by this legislation. Madam Secretary of State, have you read these two reports? If so, what follow-up will you give to these recommendations and findings? How do you intend to act in practice? Have you ever been able to identify your priorities? How long do you plan to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Poncelet, for your question. As you know, there are three anti-discrimination laws. Already in 2012, the first evaluation should have taken place under the previous government. I note that Minister Milquet failed to make the evaluation in 2012. You might want to ask her why she didn't. The current government has taken on its responsibilities. A committee has been appointed with 12 experts, who have made a very detailed evaluation. My cabinet has made a sum of EUR 25 000 available for this evaluation. She's ready, but there's a little problem. There remains a small translation problem. I asked the Chamber to ensure the translation. I understand the translation would be ready in a few weeks. Article 52 § 1 of the Anti-Discrimination Act stipulates that it is the responsibility of Parliament to carry out the evaluation. All the elements are ready, including the evaluation of the experts and that of Unia. I hope that you and your fellow Members will take the necessary steps. I am at my disposal to come to the committee to clarify this. However, the law says that it is up to Parliament to carry out the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. You're sending the ball back. I still wish I'd known your priorities. What are your prospects in these matters? It's a bit unfortunate that you don't have beacons. I am ready to work with you in parliamentary work. You came back to 2012. Again, it's the past. My question was about the future. How will you progress? Compared to translation, I was aware that there was a lack of resources for the funding of translators. I find that this lacks a bit of vision for the future. I'm a little disappointed with your answer, but I'm ready to work with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u77	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u79	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u80	Mr President, Minister, in the coalition agreement, this majority announced its intention to modernise our army in a strategic way. The challenges don't lie. On the one hand, there are the threats facing our society, such as international conflicts, terrorism, cybercrime and so on. As the coalition agreement describes it, the need for safety is great. On the other hand, there are also a number of major internal organisational challenges on the shelf. Since the Cold War, there has been insufficient investment, especially in the defence sector, and therefore the equipment has already well exceeded its expiry date. Budgetary relations between staff, operating costs and investment have also seriously distorted over recent years. This dual challenge was translated into the Minister's strategic vision text. In this strategic vision, there is ample room for future investment with a genuine investment programme. The coalition agreement already announced it, and today, with this draft law, the military programming for the next few years' investments is ahead. There has been a great deal to be done in the past few weeks and months. This law has the advantage of increasing transparency about the government's intention to invest. This technique has long been established in countries such as France, but for Belgium this is a first. Transparency and good governance are demanded and expected by the public authorities, for example, in this Chamber, and rightly so. This is, by the way, the basis of any good management. Until now, long-term expenditure planning has never been submitted to Parliament for approval. Especially in departments such as Defence where projects span several legislative hours and where decades of partnerships are concluded, this may be the appropriate way of working. I shall leave that to the wisdom of the vote in this House. The present law is in the first instance the expression of a political commitment to invest back in replacing the obsolete main equipment of Defense. It is nothing less than a reinvestment in the collective defence of Europe, already announced at the NATO summit in Wales by the previous government and confirmed at the NATO summit in Warsaw last summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u81	Mr Buysrogge, you indicate that there is a great need to modernise the current army, that there have been savings in the past and that there has been distortions. I repeat your words. So you think there is a need for modernisation. The present programme law talks about investment and expenditure. The title says "Support for 2030" to 2030, but the expenditure itself will be for the next legislative period. Then why, in your view, was there any further savings in the defence budget during this period of government? And you think that happened wrongly? In your opinion, should we have invested already during the current legislative period and should we have allocated more money?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u82	Mr Top, I do not know whether you have read the annexes contained in the draft properly. I suppose so. However, these annexes contain a package of investments, which we are launching during the current administration period. A project has already been approved, you may well know. We have given the launch in the Army Purchases Committee. I understand there are still a lot of projects on the way. Perhaps during his reply the Minister will be able to shed some light on the dossiers that we can expect in the next few weeks and months in the Army Procurement Committee. You will notice that the current government has the ambition to implement the present draft law, and all the programmes ahead. After all, it is important to give transparency to the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u83	Mr Buysrogge, may I ask for further clarification? I referred to the defence budget, for which there is still a saving operation during the current legislature. Afterwards, EUR 200 million was added to keep up the necessary investments. It's in the statements. Are the budgetary tables on investment sufficient to maintain the level of modernisation during this legislative period?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u84	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today we are discussing the present draft law, which seeks to clarify and give transparency to three categories or groups. With this draft law we want to create clarity, because we are talking about public money. A first category for which we want to create clarity is therefore the citizen. We are talking about public money. The programme before us represents EUR 9.2 billion, which is a huge amount of money. We therefore have an absolute obligation on ourselves and on the citizens to create clarity. A second category or group for which we want clarity is industry. It is important that we give our industry a perspective on what Defence wants to invest in. In the past, we have also noticed that many important investment projects have worked as a catalyst. Now, by giving a clear perspective that Defence will invest in certain main equipment in the coming years, industry will be given the opportunity to focus on research and development and further industrial development. A third category for which we want clarity is our allies, the neighbouring countries with which we work closely. As far as we are concerned, we need to work even more closely with this. We must also be able to create cooperation at European level. We are on the eve of an important NATO summit in Evere. It is therefore important for the federal government to be able to clarify future investments. We must make an important commitment as a reliable ally. Mr President, this law also responds to a number of recommendations made by the Council of State. It is not a legislative act and it is clear that the necessary appropriations must be included annually in the budget proposals if the government wishes to implement these programmes. The proposed military programming law therefore does not affect ordinary budgetary laws, administrative and budgetary control rules, nor does it affect the agreements reached with Parliament on the operation of the Army Procurement Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, let us record the glove. I would strongly recommend that you approve this draft and demonstrate that transparency and good governance can count on the support of this Chamber. You can count on our group, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u85	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the glamour of an oasis in a budget desert is my group's summary of this bill. Why a mirage? Because this law has no normative scope. It is not I who say it, but the services of the House and the Council of State that we have asked to give an opinion, to the great dam of this majority who wanted to go into force while this project still covers 9,2 billion euros. So my group put a famous rock in your bottine asking for these independent opinions. Their analysis has been in line with the one we've been doing for months. This project is simply unconstitutional, contrary to budgetary rules, and above all has no normative scope. These are the facts, and it is not a statement of reasons, however charming it may be, that will be delusional. The opinion of the Council of State is without appeal: "Multiannual budgetary standards cannot therefore be the subject of a law. The draft provisions, since they cannot bind the budgetary legislator, must be seen as an expression of political commitment. Such a commitment has no place in the framework of a law with a normative scope." In short, this majority is dreaming of an oasis of billions of military investment entirely borne by the next governments, in the budget desert that it created alone, like a great one, under this legislature. A desert created by imposing a weight loss cure of nearly 2 billion euros on the Defense. And I believe in budget laws only if they are normative. The defence budgets of this government are clear, having put the sliders almost to zero in investments, as my colleague Alain Top pointed out, except for urgent expenses. These are the famous 200 million euros from the interdepartmental reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u86	Mr Crusnière, I hear mostly technical comments. The Council of State has delivered an opinion to which we have fully responded by means of amendments. It may be interesting to skip that technicality and go straight to the essence of your speech. I would like to receive an answer from you today to the question of what investment you do not like.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u87	However, it is not up to any Member of the House who belongs to the majority to dictate what I can, cannot or must say here in this gallery. So I'll tell you. Wait until the end of my presentation, and you will understand where our position is and why we oppose this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u88	Mr Crusnière, I really think that the question of the colleague from the N-VA was justified. You're talking about mirage, oasis. Apparently, you want the sun! But the real question is that there are concrete investments. Fighting planes are not glamours. Two frigates do not form an oasis. I am going back to the total investment of 9 billion, which is not nothing. This is concrete, accompanied by important commitments already under this legislative term. What investments could you make? If you speak in this debate, it is that your interest in the question of the future of Defence is strong. But I can't imagine a debate unless, under this military programming law on investments, we can hear you about them. Specifically, on the content, are you opposed to the planned investments? If we do not make these investments, we can close the store at the National Defence level. From our point of view, this is an imperative. If you block your opposition to this military programming law, it's that somewhere you want to close the store at National Defence. I would like you to lift that ambiguity, while not wanting to dictate a pace to your intervention. At the very least, I hope that you will be able to provide a frank and clear explanation of these investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u89	Don't be desperate, Mr. Ducrame! You will have the answer to all these questions at the end of my speech. I suspect you're trying to make smoke screens, because you know that the comments of the Council of State and even those of the Chamber's legal services have hurt you. Indeed, some amendments have been made, but they do not address this issue in any way. As far as investment is concerned, we are very clear: we need investment in Defence. I'll explain how we could act. We must also not forget the European defence which is dear to us, Minister. I will have an opportunity to talk about this later, if you let me finish my speech. I was talking about the savings that this government has made. These are, for example, savings that affect our military very concretely up to training and operations abroad, with budget cuts with unprecedented consequences. My group - listen carefully, Mr. Ducrame! - supports an objective that could be laudable if it were done seriously by this majority. It's looking for an oxygen balloon for a defense that needs it. We are therefore in favour of investing in our army, in a thoughtful and especially European way, so that it can fulfil the tasks assigned to it, whether it be operations abroad or aid to the Nation. It is in this context that the debate on societal returns must be conducted in accordance with existing rules and that the involvement of the industrial, research, development and academic fabric of our country as a whole is necessary. Here too, the Regions have a major role to play. To do this, you claim to seek a broad political consensus. It is obviously a laudable objective, but it is unfortunately not with such a bill that you will achieve it because, minister, the problem of a mirage in the middle of the desert is that it is wind and will not quench the thirst of our army for food or our military. The unions of these soldiers have come to expose the disastrous and especially unprecedented policy of this government in terms of investment and personnel. How can we still attract young people to the army under these conditions? It is recalled that, under this majority, Belgium was going to become NATO's best student with impressive graphics taken from all over the strategic vision. It must be said that your PowerPoint presentations were really very impressive but, today, we know that it was just communication! Mr Miller told us in committee that this project was expected by the defence community that needs to know the course - you have used that word - that this government gives for the next fifteen years, to the army as well as to the companies, in this regal area par excellence. This course, Mr. Miller, is a Defence that is currently struggling to carry out its missions. There, too, I'm not saying it, it's the Chief of Defence, the CHOD, in committee. I will quote: "One day there is a risk that I will have to appear before the Minister of Defence and say to him: "Sorry, but we can no longer participate in this operation." The course you have taken is not in this programming law, but in your unilateral decision to raise the pension age of members from 56 to 63 by the end of 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u90	Mr Crusnière, let me make two points. Firstly, I thought you were going to develop the subject of European defence. Indeed, I understand that you indicate that there is a need for a convergence of national approaches at European level in order to build European defence. You are well aware that the Reform Movement is one of those who push for the development of a European defence. It is clear that this begins, first, with the choice we make at the national level. We must not expect Europe to invest in our place, as we do in this investment plan. I assume you agree with me on this point. Secondly, you refer to a number of comments from the CHOD and, no doubt, other military personnel. I didn't hear any military, no senior officials say that this investment plan was a mistake. On the contrary, everyone I could hear, see, meet and read told me that the Defence community was waiting - Mr.Richard Miller reminded us - for a government to make firm commitments, finally, through a law of military programming. It's a novelty. We'll come back. You are criticizing the formal aspect of this decision. Yet, with this law of military programming, there is a perspective at fifteen years through the law, as is done elsewhere in other countries, such as France. In other words, it is no longer just a government decision with a strategic plan, an investment plan as could be done under Minister Flahaut. After fifteen years, it was realized that not half of what had been presented in the Minister's PowerPoint had been achieved. This is a law passed by Parliament with a firm perspective, and a strong commitment, which has never been the case under previous legislatures. At least recognize that the military community is not opposed to the majority's approach today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u91	Mr Ducrame, I would have liked it and it would have been interesting for you to be here when the CHOD came to make its presentation, but it doesn't matter. As far as European defence is concerned, I am pleased with the statement you are making today. I hear that the MR is in favour of a European defence. I really hope that this position will be defended by our Prime Minister - a member of your party and I hear that this is an important subject for you - because the debate will soon return to the European level. I hope that he will strongly defend this desire to create a European defence. You say that Europe is not going to invest in Belgium. Certainly not! Belgium will have to invest, and it will also contribute its share in this European defence. The point of having this European reflection is to be able to think about a common strategy with mutualisations and avoid everyone buying the same type of device or the same type of frigate. There must be a mutualization and, through it, we must be much more effective. You also say that the army is not against this investment plan. I say again, we are for investments, but the army and the military are also waiting for short-term investments. These are investments they need now. As has already been said, analyse this government's budget lines in terms of investment. There's nothing left! I also spoke about the issue of pension age. Here too, in relation to this problem of pensions, General Compernol said in committee: "Who will pay?" The course of this government is indeed a Defense which, unfortunately, will have to pay more wages. The cost - we have had a very clear statement about this - amounts to EUR 3.1 billion by 2030 and would therefore lead to an increase in the staff budget of 20%. If this actually comes from the Defence budget, then the money will no longer be available for investments and the strategic vision will collapse, which was already well-banked. The MR claims to anyone who wants to hear it, that this government marks a stop to disinvestment, but, Mr.Ducarme, no one is fooled and especially not the military. What the majority is proposing today is a law that is unprecedented in its legal uncertainty. Is this a budget law? Is this an ordinary law? Is this an unprecedented form of government resolution to put a little balm at the heart? What you're proposing today is to recapitalize Defence entirely on the backs of future governments! I would also like to quote an emblematic sentence from the summary of this project: "In the strategic vision, it is planned to release a cumulative amount of €9.2 billion in terms of means of liquidation over the period 2020 to 2030 for the replacement of major defence equipment." Article 4 of the draft states: "Budget commitments are possible from 2017; liquidations, only from 2020." Should I remind you, Minister, that your mandate does not run beyond 2019? Just look at the graph on page 43 of the strategic vision to understand that we are actually facing a wooden check. And the hangover in the wake of these promises of credit will, alas, only be stronger! We are realistic and pragmatic. We know that, as in the past, it is impossible under a single legislature to carry out and finance the entire military program. It takes years and the intergenerational nature of Defence and its role as the last concrete investment lever at the federal level are true. But there is a difference between spreading an expenditure in a medium- and long-term perspective and referring it entirely to future governments. This is therefore a credit gift that will weigh heavily on future governments, given the current fiscal straitjacket decided by this government. The budget has never been lower than under this government. At the PS level, we want the legitimate function of Defence to have the means to carry out the tasks we believe to be its own and whose public character is not negotiable. However, we are convinced that the increase in the security budget cannot be at the expense of our social policies, for example. The defence budget solution must be European. The problem is not the money spent by all the Member States, but the money spent on mutualisation and synergies, both human and material, as well as logistical. While this reality requires courageous strategic choices, our ambition is to maintain Belgium as one of the European states that count in international diplomatic relations and peacekeeping missions. Given that the combined budget of European defences is around EUR 200 billion, a clean-up must be made to achieve the level of efficiency of US defence. The PS has been asking for it for years. We didn't wait for Brexit or Donald Trump's election to react. However, during the budget debates, the minister told us to stop dreaming of a defence Europe. This is a testament to his commitment! Despite your criticisms, for us, Belgium must continue and strengthen its commitment to a defence Europe within NATO that will streamline military spending while improving efficiency, supporting its industries when it can, and making Europe a major and reliable diplomatic player on a global scale. This European commitment is nowhere in the draft before us. It's incomprehensible. Therefore, if we welcome many of your investment projects, which actually meet European expectations or which are part of European industrial projects, how can we understand the absence of the European Union in this text?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u92	I cannot content myself with the watermark you mentioned in committee. Similarly, how can we understand that the Regions, which are competent in the fields of industry, research and external trade, have not been more involved in the drafting of this project? It is not enough to simply hold information meetings on this subject; the issues are too important. Unfortunately, not all of my colleague Sébastien Pirlot's questions have been answered. For all these reasons, my group will therefore vote against this proposal. Yes, we support the idea of investing in our Defence and our military to enable them to carry out their missions! But we refuse to throw powder into our eyes. Your current actions undermine this central regal function. They are in no way a course, but a weight for future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u93	Mr President, frankly, I am astonished by the elements set out in Mr Crusnière's presentation. It is surprising that you seem to discover that the reform movement is committed to European defence. I do not know if you were sitting in the last parliamentary term, but we have signed and voted together on proposals to work towards the development of a European Defence. That's clear for the MR! And the Prime Minister's action demonstrates the desire to reconnect with the hope that more effort will be brought together at European level, as you have said. It is clear that we can only take part in a European effort, as we do in the Atlantic Alliance, when we decide to invest in the way proposed by this military programming law. This is where I do not understand your lack of nuance, if I dare to use this term, which is manifested in your vote against this text. However, in terms of the commitments to be made, the bill in question responds to the need to replace our F-16s. Similarly, it is essential to re-equip the Earth Component, renew our frigates, buy drones, etc. Given our exchanges, I know that you share our conviction that it is important to invest in Defence. I tell you frankly, we could have replaced our F-16s under the previous legislature. This was envisaged in the previous government agreement. However, some parties have blocked this possibility. So we have to start at some point. We have no choice, because time is short. Otherwise, we will not take on our responsibilities in European terms and in terms of the Atlantic Alliance. I am therefore surprised, even though I understand the majority opposition game from which your criticisms flow. You play your part – and it's very healthy in democracy. In view of the essential aspect of certain investments, however, I thought that beyond the grievances you have expressed, you would have been more nuanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u94	Prime Minister: Siegfried Bracke, Chairman. As far as the way we work is concerned, too long we have used investment plans. And they finally found themselves amputated by 50% after the fifteen years. Here, we have a law of military programming, which more firmly reflects the will of our country to complete these essential investments. I think we made the right choice. Other countries have put military programming laws in place and are doing relatively well, which consolidates the vote we are doing today. We fully assume this choice: the law of military programming was indeed included in the programme of the Reform Movement. We put it in the government agreement with the majority. And today we will vote on it. We are naturally pleased to be able to meet this promise made to the elector. Mr Crusnière, we know each other well. Honestly, I can't tell you this: when we talk about a number of problems encountered at the level of National Defence, particularly at the level of the Earth component, in relation to a number of under-investments, under-equipment, at a rate of attrition among the most important in Europe, we pay what was the choice...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u95	Mr Ducrame, I am really surprised: if I am not mistaken, we were not alone, you were also present in this majority. Under the previous government (the Di Rupo government) and despite the savings we had to make – I'm not going to play the scared virgins; I admit that savings had to be made – 83% of the army's investment program had been realized. You can't deny it, Mr. Ducrame! And I would remind you that you were a party to this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u96	I don't deny it. I'm not saying that everything that's been done with you was absolutely awful. Part of it was probably. We take our responsibilities in this regard. But I didn't come to the Di Rupo government. Here too, we probably have our responsibility. Speaking of under-equipment, attrition rates, under-investment, I wanted to talk to Minister Flahaut. Today we are paying for this reality. You were talking about food shortages. It was Mr Flahaut who starved the Defense with the minimum. Today, everyone agrees that the minimum sufficient was the fundamental mistake towards National Defence. If we have such a rate of attrition, it is because we still pay the sufficient minimum period. He was the one I wanted to talk about the past. That's clear. It's a little big, as a result of that ideological choice of the time. At the time, some even thought that the Defence was going to take a more humanitarian direction. Reality caught up with us. The international context is there. The threat weighs. There is a need for greater involvement in some external operations. That is the reality. In Belgium, we have been deinvesting National Defence for too long. I think responsibility is collective. No doubt legitimately, our NATO allies are sore. Our current investments are almost 0.8% of GDP, while NATO demands 2%. The Minister of Defence will no doubt be able to confirm that by 2030, this investment plan will increase this proportion to 1.3%. We have a collective responsibility. It is necessary to invest, to take our share of investment responsibilities. In view of the fact that the world has unfortunately returned, we are naturally moving in the direction of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u97	Mr Ducrame, I like it when you talk about the past because you can stay in the past long enough, but I want to talk about the future. That is what concerns us all here and what concerns all our military today. You're talking about the investments of the past, but in concrete terms, you have a law here. I said what I thought about its normative character. If we have to do so much for our army, why was there this two-billion-dollar disinvestment under this legislature and this government? Why did the unions come to complain? Why are the military complaining? Why did the CHOD come to sound the alarm in our Parliament and in our committee? It's nice to have big speeches about investments, etc., but on the concrete, on the ground, see what the military thinks!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u98	You know very well that there have been investments. You also know very well that a number of envelopes have been released, including for our external operations. So, don't try to make it look like there's a disinvestment under this government! Here we are putting on the table a law of military programming that is "of never before seen" in terms of investments for our National Defence since the end of the Cold War. It's just a reality! We will not have invested so heavily in our National Defence in terms of investment plans since the end of the Cold War. There! So I'm a little surprised that you're giving us a number of lessons on the fact that we're not investing enough and, at the same time, you're voting "no" to an investment of over $9 billion for National Defence. I don't think what you're doing is very consistent. Compared to the investments and the list of investments that is planned, you know that we need them. I hope it's not ideological! I hope that it is not a somewhat anti-military position that would be to vote "no" to this law of military programming, as has sometimes been known in the leader of the Socialist Party. You won't deny it and we've seen that drift with Minister Flahaut. I hope that's not what I have to read between the lines, Mr Crusnière!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u99	Stop what I call childish! Just one thing, Mr. Ducrame: the Socialist Party had to wait until it was no longer a majority member to have the military on the street. Never forget it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u100	We had to wait until the Socialist Party was no longer in charge...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u101	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u102	Mrs. Onkelinx came back and she's doing the subtitles. That's nice of you, Mrs. Onkelinx! This is always important in the debate. It's a gesture translation. She explained the debate. Thank you, Mrs. Onkelinx. You give us a fundamental contribution on the subject, I must say. I have experienced this very closely in the context of the agreements sealed under the previous government: it is obvious that it was necessary for the Socialist Party to be, at last, outside a federal majority to hope to put black on white investments such as the replacement of the F-16s. Indeed, with the Socialist Party with responsibilities with us, we risked disengaging ourselves from an essential ground such as this one. When I saw that we were putting in place a majority – and I am concerned about defence issues – I thought to myself: "Finally! With the Socialist Party outside this majority, we will be able to move forward." I tell you this without any sleeve effect, and in an extremely sincere way. I am convinced that what we are doing today with this military programming law, we could never have done it before. We would never have been able to obtain such a large investment that would raise the GDP share figure from 0.8 to 1.3 per cent by 2030. That is the reality, apart from everything else, of any position, of any kind of political reply! With this law of military programming, we give more strength, in terms of form, to make progress in terms of investment. We give oxygen, means and a long-term perspective. This can, frankly, my dear friends of the majority, be a pride that we can share. Finally, we are investing as we should in National Defence!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u103	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on three points. First of all, it is very important for my group to always consider the dimension of possible cooperation with other countries and allies in the investment dossiers. We welcome the fact that the text before us clearly draws the map of deeper partnerships and thus allows our Belgian defence to evolve into an efficient defence player in the European Union. Together we can purchase the necessary new systems, while the costs for maintenance, updates and training can be printed. A good example of this is the announced joint purchase of mine hunters and frigates by our country and our neighbouring countries. It is not only because of cost savings that it is important to strive for ever more in-depth cooperation with our partners, we must also work towards a common approach to the changing security context. After all, in the near, but also in the wider environment of Europe, the security context has changed dramatically over the past few years and there are still shifts in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u104	Mr Yüksel, you talk about cooperation and say that there must be an initiative to invest and maintain materials with partners, because this can save money. You give the example of cooperation with the Netherlands for the Navy. A table has already been drawn up with a number of investments on which the majority would like to use. I take an example, with the largest amount, namely the replacement of the F-16s. Who are you looking for to work together on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u105	Mr Top, that's a classic. You may still ask that question, but you know the answer yourself. We've worked out a whole trajectory. As regards the preparatory phase, a government proposal was delivered to the five agencies. So have some patience and you will know the answer with us and with the government by 2018. If, in this draft programming law, we put forward that we want to work together and achieve a lot of efficiency gains on that basis, then that is a general ambition and starting point. You're picking one thing out of that. We will see what it will be, but I do not have the answer to that question today. I don't think anyone knows that answer today. If not, you would undoubtedly argue that the whole procedure has been for nothing and that is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u106	Mr Top, I have the impression that you are looking for some concrete examples to clarify the cooperation. You're looking for that. You were a reporter of the discussions on this bill. The Minister replied: "The purchase of drones will take place in cooperation with other European countries. As regards the land dimension, cooperation with a strategic partner is envisaged, as is already the case with the Navy. The special operation forces are the subject of intense contacts with the Netherlands and Denmark and European air transport is in cooperation with nine countries." These are a number of concrete examples which you mention in the report and which we would like to underline for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u107	Mr Buysrogge, you quote from the report of the committee meeting. I did ask specifically about one particular subject. Let me give you another example. As far as the army is concerned, it is true that you have quoted the Minister that we will seek a strategic partner, but that was not the subject of my question. I shall return to my question to the previous speaker. Could it be that, after the procedure for the replacement of the F-16 species, we may not find a partner to cooperate with?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u108	Mr Top, you are asking hypothetical questions here. We started a process, let's wait and see. You also know that the answer to your question can only be given at the end of the journey. We want to work together as much as possible with the draft programming law. The answer is clear: if the government makes a choice later, it will be a choice in the light of that principle. Could it be that we're not working together? Anything's possible. Your question is hypothetical. Colleagues, we are faced with international terrorism, with proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, with cyber attacks, with changing power relations and with conflicts that undermine regional stability in the periphery of Europe. It affects our country and the whole of the European continent. That is what we must do together. Collaboration alone is not enough; it requires deeper cooperation in the European Union. That is the way forward for my group to meet the budgetary challenges and the security challenges. Secondly, the proposed investments are important for Belgian companies as well, because they will be able to contribute to the development of systems and to continue to rely on innovation. In our country, therefore, such investments have always provided an important economic boost to employment and economic growth and have given our companies the opportunity to participate on the international stage thanks to innovation. Finally, a mini-NATO summit will take place in Brussels in May. The position of our country in NATO today is what it is. Together with Spain and Luxembourg, our country is one of those countries that spend less than 1% of GDP on defence. Our commitment to foreign operations is also falling. Investment under the current military programme law is important to safeguard our loyalty and role in the alliance and to ensure the employability and efficiency of our army. Although these investments are indicative, it is important for the Minister to be able to present more and concrete commitments at the NATO Summit. Such a symbolic signal is important to our partners. That is why my group will approve this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u109	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, which is an implementation of what is contained in the coalition agreement, naturally also receives the support of our group. With this draft law, we make a serious commitment to provide our army with sufficient and sound equipment so that our military can carry out their duties fully and safely. This program law sends a strong and clear signal to all those soldiers and their families. It is also a clear signal for the Belgian industry and all the inhabitants of Belgium. In addition to freedom, security is our main asset, because it is only with security and freedom that we can move forward as individuals and society. On the Belgian industry, I would like to mention the following. We went with the committee to visit SABCA. There we learned that the purchase of the F-16 in the 1970s gave that company and other companies access to technology. Such access has allowed them to develop new applications that can be used in other markets. For SABCA, this is civil aviation and space. Today they supply products for the Arianeraket and Boeing and Airbus. They provide more revenue and more jobs. Access to technology is therefore an accelerator for our companies. We will also purchase new ships. That is necessary, because we have important seaports. Antwerp is our largest import and export pool, the economic gate of our country. Imagine that in the Westerschelde mines are laid by people who don't like us. We would then have a serious economic problem. It is not just here with us, but also elsewhere that international trade routes must be safeguarded. Remember, for example, the interventions off the coast of Somalia. They are really important to ensure international trade and our jobs in ports. These are two examples where I wanted to show that the investments proposed in this programme law are much needed. They're good for our country. For us Liberals, the 50/25/25 key in spending has been crucial. That is also what we said when we drew up the Minister's strategic vision. We are pleased that it is also included in the strategic plan. The 50/25/25 key represents 50 % expenditure on staff, 25 % operating costs and 25 % investment. The 25% envisaged for investment, we will use for investment in this programme law. The budgets we want to clear should not be a blank cheque. They're not, because they're described in this program law. There is a lot of discussion within NATO about how much each country spends on defence. It is true that we urgently need to make a catch-up. We will do the same with this. By 2030, we will be 1.3% of GDP, but we will not be blinding ourselves to a number or a percentage either. A percentage says something, but not everything. For example, it does not tell whether a country spends its budget wisely and efficiently and whether it is a partner of solidarity. For example, it does not tell us that Belgium is helping to make the world more stable in Iraq, Lithuania, Central Africa and Afghanistan. What is even more important is that we use resources efficiently and effectively. It is generally known that it has also been cited several times by experts in the committee that our military apparatus has a very large output. It's been proven. Defence is one of the three Diplomas in foreign policy: defence, diplomacy, but also development. We see, for example, that a large country such as the United States has reduced its budgets for diplomacy and development. However, we consider it as essential as defence. Colleagues, the European Member States are spending a great deal of money on defence. However, we have 27 separate armies and 27 separate budgets. That may be less efficient in this age. Our country has always been a pioneer in cooperation, just look at the creation of the EU. Several colleagues have also mentioned cooperation with the Dutch Navy, or joint surveillance of our airspace in the Benelux context. Such bottom-up cooperation is excellent and greatly strengthens our partnerships. Europe will, however, have to cooperate even more. If it can't be with the 27, then it'll have to be with a smaller group that wants to move forward. Putins and Erdogans only benefit from internal divisions in Europe, not us as Europe. The world is no longer bipolar, the Cold War has long been thawed out, but multipolar. Russia and China are investing heavily in the modernisation of their armed forces. At the same time, US aid seems less certain. This draft law shows that we are prepared to be a partner in solidarity and to continue to invest in the safety of our citizens. We are in favour of a modern, flexible and deployable army for Belgium, NATO and the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been pointed out, this draft law sets out the programming of investments until 2030. We are talking about investments of just over EUR 9 billion. This programme law was given the government's green light six months ago. An opinion from the Council of State, though mandatory for this type of legislative work, was not requested by the government. Together with the PS, we asked the Council of State for your advice. I would like to thank the President of the Chamber for asking for this opinion from the Council of State. The advice was pretty clear and made firewood out of the bill that could actually go into the wastebasket. The draft law did not have any effective added value. The Military Programme Act lays down investments by Defence until 2030. We are talking about 34 new fighters, six drones, combat vehicles for the Army, two frigates and six mine fighters. The Council of State confirms in its opinion that this is impossible because the budget has to be approved annually. Budgetary standards for several years cannot therefore be regulated by a law or a programme law. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of clarity, the amendments tabled by the majority in response to the opinion of the Council of State do not at all remedy this. I would just like to quote from the justification for the amendments that have been tabled. By the way, they state themselves that the law serves to inform. In other words, it is an expression of political commitment. Now, in addition to the technical shortcomings of the proposal, there are also substantive problems. To us, the estimates have been greatly underestimated. If we compare the planned budget with similar investments from other countries, we think that the coming governments will be in serious trouble. This government orders to place the invoice on the next governments. It's actually a contradiction. I have just quoted it in my question to the previous speaker. In today's legislature, the defence budget is being cut. For example, the military were told that they might have to work up to 7.5 years longer. There are also a lot of savings on staff. In the meantime, the Defense Department staff is now getting the green light to buy all kinds of expensive toys. It is irresponsible for the Defense Department to spend billions of dollars while the population has to turn in at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, for our group, investment in the defence sector is also much-needed and important...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u111	Mr Top, I find it rather derogatory to our pilots and sailors, among others, when you say that the equipment they have today and that we are going to replace toys. If you think that people who are supposed to guarantee our safety every day are dealing with toys, then I don't think you know your files. I think that is a seriously derogatory statement to the entire defence apparatus. I find that your party is not at all interested in the safety of the people, in the safety of the Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u112	Mr Vandenput, we also want investment in the defence sector. They are also much needed and necessary. But then they must be carefully considered and worked out in conjunction with the partners. We have already discussed cooperation with the EU partners, and this is best done in advance. A good example, I have quoted it in a question to Mr Yüksel, is the Navy's example. We make agreements in which cases we invest and which cases we do together. We believe in that European story. Work together, fill the gaps, ensure greater efficiency, modernise Defense and invest as well. However, as a European country, and certainly not as a small European country, there is no point in wanting to invest in all areas and develop everything yourself. Make sure you invest in specialties, in things that are good, such as mine sweepers, air transport, cyber and intelligence services. These are examples in which we can invest and for which we have a great deal more intelligence and to which we have much more than the things that are before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u113	Mr Top, you say that this government is ordering separately and that the bill will be paid by the next government. How many A 400 MJs did you order in the previous government? What are you gonna do with that? Was that in consultation with other partners? What government is paying these A 400 MJs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u114	Mrs Grosemans, the major investments in the defence sector have always been cross-legislative, that is correct. I have no problem with these investments if they are useful, well thought-out and are well agreed in advance with the European partners. What you present here is a list of what you want, with the exception of the Navy, and only then will you speak to the partners. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u115	Mr Top, what would you like to stop doing then? What will we then no longer invest in? Tell me that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u116	I have an additional question, Mr Top. What major investments, according to the Defense Department, are not necessary? You have very good contacts with the people of Defense. Tell me which of the big investments Defense itself doesn't like it or doesn't like it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u117	Just so we're clear, I'll give you an answer about the A400M. Mrs Grosemans, Belgium has not only decided on this. This is a European project, in cooperation with other European countries and well agreed with those other European countries. That's an example, yeah?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u118	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u119	Development's still going on. It is also your duty, Minister, to follow up on these things. Whether you like it or not, it is also your obligation. That will also be the case in the next parliamentary term for what is being decided here today. Mr Yüksel, you know that we are not in favour of replacing fighter aircraft as a small country. If we want to defend airspace and also do something for the army, we must do it together with other countries. Then it is not done as a country alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u120	Mr Top, I think you are overlooking a number of things. We are also working with the Netherlands today to control the airspace of our two countries together. Today we are helping a NATO project in Estonia, where we are stepping in with our F-16 citizens to control the borders there. We are therefore doing a lot of things together in the field of air transport, and this cooperation will only increase in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u121	Mr Yüksel, I have two answers for you. Firstly, the question is whether such type of aircraft is needed in the description of the request for the items you have listed. Secondly, it's about buying together. The example you indicate is collaboration in the field of interventions at the locations there. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u122	Mr President, Mr Top, you have just said that specialization is important and that we should not invest in everything. I agree. That's not for this either. If we were to invest in everything, the budget would be broken down, even for our successors, which we absolutely do not want. That specialization is therefore necessary. Let the Air Force of our army just have one of the most important specializations in combat planes and F-16-year-olds. Do you agree that there have been many hearings in which this specialization, including abroad, was celebrated? Did you hear that during the hearings we held at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u123	Mr Buysrogge, first of all, the future will tell us, but the first question is whether it will be enough and whether it will be enough for what one wants. Secondly, the purchase itself is only a small part of the total cost for those aircraft throughout their lifetime. It has already been proven that there are enough fighter planes at European level. In any case, therefore, we must move towards cooperation at European level. Find your gaps at European level and decide who will fill in what after that. Don't do that in advance. That's the plea of the sp.a. I would like to conclude by making a reference to the Minister, in particular that the draft law is superfluous, as he himself has indicated. That is also mentioned in the explanatory statement of the amendments. The minister himself literally said that the present law serves only as an engagement and that the law itself is not necessary. So I wonder what we are doing here today. Between voting on a law and voting on an engagement or voting on an intention is a big difference. I would therefore suggest to Parliament that we do a proper job of our defence, but do so in another area and seek cooperation at European level in order to fill those gaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u124	Mr President, the context is set with each other's interventions. I am speaking here in full coherence with my colleague, Georges Dallemagne, who was unable to be present today and who, like me, took part in the committee's meetings. I would like to make it clear once again, Mr Minister, that, in our view, it is essential and urgent to improve and organize the actual reinvestment in our defence, in particular in equipment and heavy equipment. Indeed, no one can deny the new and ever-increasing threats of terrorism or cybersecurity. It should also be borne in mind that countries or situations in some parts of the world are changing enormously. I am thinking of the southern flank of Europe, on the eastern flank, not to mention that the political changes in the United States may raise questions within the framework of the transatlantic partnership. In this context, we believe that Belgium must assume its share of collective and European security and that it cannot dislodge its allies in order to ensure its defence and interests properly. Yet today, our defence effort and, in particular, our equipment efforts are the lowest percentage of GDP compared to all NATO countries. In view of the international situation, in view of our responsibilities to ourselves and our allies and in view of our capabilities, Belgium must correct the shooting. Minister, such equipment programs represent significant budget amounts that necessarily span several years. Therefore, we were quite in favour of the idea of providing a mechanism to clearly indicate to our military, our allies, the industries concerned what the Belgian government intends to do in this area and how Belgium plans to achieve its 2030 targets. Of course, the Council of State correctly pointed out that this law can be nothing but a political commitment, which will therefore not bind the hands of future governments. From the beginning, the CDH did not see how it could have been otherwise. Nevertheless, the approach did not seem useless to us, since it indicated the way forward. For this programming to be implemented in several legislatures, it would have been necessary for the majority to consult the opposition in advance in order to forge the necessary consensus for the actual implementation of this military programming by 2030, regardless of future government coalitions. Unfortunately, this was not the option chosen by the government, which we regret. On the other hand, for the CDH, and we have defended it in committee, it is more than ever necessary to act in favour of the construction of a true Europe of defence that can be based on a fully autonomous military industry. It would therefore have been logical and necessary for this draft law on military programming to incorporate this fundamental issue by formally stating in its scheme that the investments envisaged here must support the development of the industries concerned in Europe. However, the government does not make any formal commitments in this regard, and the majority rejected our amendment, which would have made it possible to include this requirement in the text before us. I think the majority missed an opportunity. Last but not least, the bill introduced by the government explicitly provides, in its Article 3, that no budget liquidation can take place until 2020. In short, the current majority once again proclaims great ambitions but carefully avoids having to carry them out itself and having to bear, if only in part, the budgetary efforts. With this bill, the federal government is simply postponing any real budgetary effort on the shoulders of future governments, without even making the slightest correct and concrete investment itself. In my view, this is unacceptable. It is simply not possible to demand from the following governments what one is not prepared to impose on oneself, especially after having reduced the Defence budget as never before since the beginning of the legislature. Together with my colleague Dallemagne, I had therefore tabled a series of amendments in committee, in order to correct these errors, those shortcomings and, in particular, to provide for budgetary liquidations as early as the 2018 financial year. So it was an effort from the beginning. The majority did not want it and opposed it. Therefore, we will not be able to support this text. As I said, we have long supported the reinvestment in our defence and, in particular, the necessary renewal of our equipment, so that our armed forces can fulfil their missions with dignity. But it is simply not acceptable for this government to send the bill back to its successors, without concertation, without developing a long-term project, and by indicating in this bill that no budget liquidation can be carried out before 2020. The strategy is a little easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u125	Colleagues, minister, the content of this bill is not only very bad in substance, it is also very bad in form. The Council of State also says so. In his December 15 notice, he said that this bill is no use! It is only a political commitment and the Council of State is very clear: "Such a commitment has no place in the machinery of a law of normative scope." Why is it useless? Mrs Wilmès, can you tell your colleague that the budget is every year. This is article 174 of the Constitution. Can you explain to him that it doesn't vote every fifteen years? You haven't understood that yet? The budget is voted on by the House every year and not every 15 years. I can't go any further. We're going to stick to this and get to the bottom. In essence, your project is anti-social, anti-democratic and dangerous. Why antisocial? Your government has taken austerity measures that increase the cost of energy, the cost of medicines, create budget cuts in social security, block wage increases. Mrs De Block is here to say that health is also a victim of this policy. But there is one area for which there is money: that of the Defense or rather of the attack. No one has chosen to invest €9.2 billion in new fighter aircraft or other warplanes. They cost an exorbitant price for both purchase and maintenance. This amounts to making each household pay €1,953. In addition, the budget is probably underestimated, as has been seen in the Netherlands, which has been forced to reduce their order. Not to mention the new demands of Mr Trump or NATO, which believe that Belgium must invest an additional 5 billion in the military budget annually. You choose to buy new fighter jets and other weapons. On the other hand, you are attacking the employment and pensions in the army itself. So your choice of breaking the piggy bank for such combat weapons and following NATO's recommendations goes hand in hand with the elimination of six thousand jobs, since the number of soldiers will increase from thirty-one thousand to twenty-five thousand. Moreover, as colleagues have pointed out, your plans - particularly in terms of pensions - have aroused widespread opposition within the army. In short, I will take up Mrs Grosemans, the current chairman of the Defence Committee. When she was still in the opposition and the N-VA could still try to make it look different from the traditional parties, she considered the replacement of the F-16s to be "a budgetary suicide". That's what you said, ma'am. Today, you are part of the majority. Obviously, it's no longer one. It's also an anti-democratic project... you don't have to react, ma'am. You can, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u126	Mr Van Hees, I have already responded to your criticism in committee. I'll do that again here. At the time, it was said that, for example, when the F-16s were replaced by F-35s, there was no possibility of economic compensation; nor job creation. Meanwhile, we have more information and know better: there is indeed an economic return possible. By the way, you're quoting a statement from me in 2011. At that time the circumstances were very different than they are now, Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u127	Mrs. Grosemans, you're right. The situation was quite different: the N-VA was in opposition. As I understand it, when you were in the opposition, you weren't seriously studying the files. Today, you read the files with another look. Obviously, that makes a significant difference. This project is also undemocratic. First of all, because you are going through a budget commitment of $4 billion for 34 new fighter jets without any details. If you have calculated the cost, this means that you have an idea of the models and prices. And yet neither the government nor Colonel Van Pee, whom we have heard, have agreed to give any information on this matter. On the contrary, Colonel Van Pee told us that we would only have full cost information at the end of the race. That is why, together with a few colleagues, we have co-signed a request for the Court of Auditors to make an in-depth analysis of what the replacement of fighter aircraft would represent at budgetary level. Secondly, you are well aware that there is no legitimacy in the population for these military investments, in particular the replacement of fighter aircraft. On the contrary, according to a survey by the University of Antwerp in March 2014, only 25% of Belgians are in favour of the purchase of new fighter aircraft. Even among N-VA voters, 57% are opposed. There are 38,000 people who have also signed a petition initiated by the national platform "No fighter planes", which brings together more than 130 Belgian civil society associations. A demonstration, in which I participated, brought together several thousand people in the streets of Brussels. Representatives of the "No Fighter Aircraft" platform also asked to be heard in the House, and to have the petition debated there. In particular, the issue was raised in the Finance Committee this week. The majority rejected the request to discuss the petition. However, the budgetary impact of such investments is not zero, especially in terms of budgetary choices. What are the priorities? More social, health, public employment? Or the fighter planes? In any case, the Finance Committee this week referred the ball back to the Conference of Presidents. I guess this one's gonna throw the request in the trash. Finally, it is a very dangerous project because increases in military budgets all over the world are a serious threat to humanity. They're totally useless. This debate on armaments is completely absurd. The debate is partly conducted as if we were surrounded by highly armed powers. For years, however, NATO has not invested in anything other than yoga mats. Yet, let's look at the numbers! If we look at NATO member states today, what do they spend annually on armaments? 900 billion! If we look at the European countries together, they have 2,000 fighter jets. You say that we must continue and go even further in this expenditure on armaments, whereas if we look at Russia, for example, in comparison with our 900 billion NATO, it spends 66 billion. Our 900 billion compared to Russia's 66 billion threat, are they not enough? Should we continue to invest in armaments? The problem is that these arms purchases are not made to be stored in drawers. In fact, your plan provides for six Belgian fighter jets permanently deployed abroad. So we are no longer in a defence logic but in a logic of intervention abroad. It is also known that the proliferation of Western military interventions in the world has not led to a safer world. On the contrary! Where do refugees and terrorists come from today? They come from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria or Libya, all those countries where you have first intervened in recent years with your NATO friends. That is why, with the PTB, we are clearly opposed, and since the beginning, to the renewal of the fighter planes and also to the war policy of this government. For example, the PTB was the only one to oppose the intervention in Iraq in 2014. At that time, the government was in day-to-day business. Parliament, in that case, had exceptionally had its say. There is also the issue of the nuclear capability of these new fighter aircraft. I asked Minister Reynders about this. He had told me, unlike you, Mr.Minister, who refused to answer the question, that the nuclear option had indeed been chosen for the fighter aircraft. I will quote Christophe Wasinski of the Center for Research and Teaching in International Policy of the ULB, for whom, in short, "the security analysis contained in the strategic vision of defence is cruelly lacking in realism, critical sense, imagination and rigour". Above all, it looks like a copy and paste of documents produced in the United States and within NATO. That, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the PTB, we are making the choice of another way and we will continue to fight the one chosen by your government!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is always good to have such debates concluded by someone who brings in a humorous note, not hindered by any knowledge, never looked at the content of the draft and makes all kinds of statements. Mr Van Hees, if you would like to comment on the state of play regarding fighter aircraft, I can only recommend that you look at the full document on my website www.vandeput.fgov.be. I say that for the report, which you probably won't read anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, I have noted a few points and will try to make a number of additions, to make corrections and certainly to invest sufficient time in answering Mr Crusnière's questions. I listened carefully to Mr Crusnière's presentation and I believe that we are not far from voting for him. I can indeed answer all the questions he has asked and the comments he has made. It is still time to change your mind and vote with us. You are in favour of reinvestment in defence: we must invest, we must work together at European level. So when it comes to voting, don't hesitate. Mr Top, it is not the first time that I have failed to understand the views of you and your party. It will most likely be for that reason that I am a member of another party. You claim to be standing here for the military, for defence, for replacement investments, over and over again. At the same time, you take a sentence in your mouth as the defence staff gets budget to buy his toys. The only contentious vision I have ever read from your party is one concerning a defence of 15 000 soldiers with a budget of half. I would like you to explain to those soldiers, who are always here in Parliament, that you stand up for the individual military, how you will achieve the reduction of the current 30 000 soldiers to 15 000 soldiers and what exactly will they be allowed to do? I understand from the very beginning that it is about the laying of electricity and water connections. I think, Mr Top, that when we talk about European and international cooperation, we are talking about a different kind of task, in this case tasks relating to our collective security and defence. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just say a little more about the remarks concerning the Council of State. If you remember correctly and if you have checked the documents, you will have seen that I have clearly stated in my first draft of law that this is not a legislative or budgetary text. In that context, therefore, there was no need for an opinion from the Council of State. What do we read in the opinion of the Council of State? The Council of State concludes that it is not a legislative or budgetary act. So all the comments about possible shortcomings are simply gone. The Council of State has confirmed what we have always said, namely that it is not a budgetary law. The budget has to be approved annually in accordance with the Constitution, and that it is not a legislative act, because we do not impose obligations on third parties. In that case, therefore, there is no need for an opinion from the Council of State. We have also followed the advice received, where this could be done. Again, you say that you are in favour of defence, that there is a need to reinvest in defence, that you would like to debate it and that there should be input into the thinking exercise in this area. How more transparent and how public can we act, Mr Top, by defining in a law what we intend to do? How transparent can we be? How much more public debate can we have on the draft than today? In any case, I wish you a great deal of courage in once again looking for back room politics. After all, we say very clearly in the text, rule after rule, what we will do. And now, Mr Crusnière, I would like you to tell me what investments are not needed for defence today. We've worked with the Defence, with whom you have good relations. I'd like you to tell me what investments are being called into question. Is it at the level of the "cyber" dimension, the Earth Component, the Air Component or the Marine Component? If you are in favour of a reinvestment in Defence and you feel that it goes beyond the political generations in our Parliament, it is not possible for you not to vote for this bill. Finally, I would like to make one final comment on European defence. The law is the result of a strategic vision. The texts of the law and the strategic vision provide, in each of their sentences, the idea of collaboration at European level. Indeed, it is well specified, in each program, that we cannot do things alone. We won't buy a plane without a partner. We will not develop, alone, a new earth system. We will not develop, alone, a programme for new mine hunters. We will not develop, alone, a programme concerning drones. In each dimension, we will participate in each programme by working together with our European partners, NATO, the European Union and others. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we are talking about. If we are talking about a European defence here in Parliament, we must ask ourselves which European defence is meant by that. Is this a European defence in which one partner contributes 2% of its gross domestic product and another partner brings less than 1% of its gross domestic product? Do you really think, Mr Top, that it is possible to save more than the partners? Yeah, I know countries where that's possible. I know groups in the world where some Members pay more than others, and that can go on for a long time. That exists, I have a sense of that. However, if we want to work on an equal footing with our European partners and if we want to engage in a clear European defence policy within NATO, then I think we should also dare to say that our investments must increase in the future. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the majority have clearly defined the decision we are taking here today. Even Mr de Lamotte has indicated what we are doing today. We are voting today on a law on military programming. The text makes clear the government's commitment to what Defence should be in the future. That is a commitment to our citizens. Greater transparency than writing that down in a law, can't be. It is a commitment to the military, who are ready to risk everything they have day in and day out for security in our own country and abroad. It is also our commitment to our partner countries. Once again, if we want better European defence, we ourselves must be prepared to contribute to this. Last but not least, it is also a commitment and means clarity to the Belgian industry and the Belgian scientific institutions. For industry and the scientific institutions, it is good to know what is going to happen in the long term, so that they can identify what is important to them. I look forward to the vote in the hemisphere. Mr Crusnière, think about it again, but I believe that a vote for it is a vote of responsibility and is better than engaging in political games.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u129	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u130	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2137/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2137/ 8) The draft law contains 7 articles and an annex. The bill has seven articles and one annex. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u131	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u132	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Clarinval and Ms Fonck, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u133	Mr. Chair, Minister, the bill before us today is about funding the Asbestos Fund. Its main aim is to regularize the situation in the years 2015 and 2016. It also aims to propose a transitional financing solution for the years 2017 to 2019, which will help stabilize reserves. Finally, it aims to structurally reform the financing of the Fund for the future beyond 2020. There was an urgent need to regularize the situation. The Asbestos Fund is overfunded, with reserves now reaching 80 million. A balanced solution should therefore be found for the years to come. I would like to stress with satisfaction that in the text before us, the Minister has had the excellent initiative to include €650,000, earmarked for prevention projects or academic studies related to the problem of asbestos. This is a positive initiative that should be emphasized. However, Minister, you are aware that the asbestos fund is ten years old and it seems to me important that consideration be given to a possible revision of the system. Questions can be raised as to the civil immunity of employers and the expansion of the diseases covered. We believe that it is also important to better integrate the polluter pays principle into the debate. In order to address these concerns, you have referred to a reflection in the Committee on the Reform of Occupational Diseases. I totally subscribe to it. There are real expectations in this area and the MR is sensitive to it. He will support you in this work. In addition, I think it is necessary to reflect with the social partners in order to achieve a balance. Historically, the Asbestos Fund has been set up with the social partners to allow rapid compensation for victims without the inconvenience of often lengthy and costly legal proceedings. At the time, the social partners had insisted that regulation should be as coherent as possible and should be part of the Occupational Diseases Fund. In other words, it had to be based on a social and solidarity insurance scheme. We will not be able to avoid a wide-ranging debate with the social partners in this regard. That, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is the various points that my group would like to make. It goes without saying that we will support this project, convinced that it was urgent and necessary to regularize the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u134	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very special moment, since our discussion is being held on the tenth anniversary of the creation of the Asbestos Fund. We could have expected this to be an opportunity to assess and examine the diseases it covers or not and to assess what needs to be improved. Then we could have celebrated this anniversary with dignity. Unfortunately, the text proposed to us is simply a budgetary adjustment for the Fund's funding. The method is to seek a limited participation of employers for a specified period of time in order to compensate for what the federal government has not paid in the past two years. This means that contributions will be minimal. It is true, Madam Minister, that this project provides €650,000 to improve prevention and research in this area. This is a positive step. In addition, you agree that, if the expenses were to exceed the expected amount, the government will cover the costs. The positive aspect of the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs was the organisation of a hearing with representatives of the victims' associations. I do not link it to the work on this bill, but it has triggered a longer-term work that I hope we will be able to do in Parliament. I really hope that we will be able to work on the basis of the bills that have been tabled. Together with my colleague Anne Dedry, we have tabled one to improve the asbestos fund. The fact that there are 80 million in reserve from this fund serves as a justification for advocating a reduction in its funding or are "overfunding" as Mr Clarinval says. But you have to ask yourself questions. Why is this fund so little used? Having put the Asbestos Fund into the Occupational Diseases Fund has a false belief among workers and self-employed people, who normally do not get involved, among the environmental victims – neighbours of companies and members of the close circle of someone who has brought asbestos home – who do not yet know enough that the Asbestos Victims Compensation Fund is also intended for them. There is under-utilization by default of information on the possibility of using the fund. The hearings we have conducted with asbestos victims confirm that from the moment this fund is managed by officials, by the Occupational Diseases Fund, the files are managed as if they were records relating to occupational diseases. In this case, however, they are persons who, in the course of their lives, have been in contact, in other circumstances, with high levels of asbestos fibres or who have different pathologies. The hearings also tell us that there are beliefs that have been established, either by experience or by deduction, among the officials of the Occupational Diseases Fund. They consider that lung cancer requires such exposure that only workers can develop this type of cancer and that it is impossible for an environmental victim to suffer from lung cancer due to asbestos and that his/her case leads to compensation for the victim. But we know that in the good times of Eternit and Coverit, workers returned home with asbestos in large quantities in their clothes. It is also moving to hear Eric Jonckheere tell us that his father, an engineer, came back with asbestos blocks that he dug to turn them into flower boxes to decorate the window supports of their house. Everyone was bathed in asbestos fibres because he did it in the living room and he did it without fear because Eternit, Coverit and all the shareholders of these companies had manipulated the scientific data to suggest that asbestos was safe. So there's work to be done! Madam Minister, for this reason, it is difficult for us to live by the fact that today we are content to reduce the progressivity of the Fund's funding, in a momentary way, of course, but it is decreasing. We find it difficult to live it all the more because we expect a peak of victims, because there are latency periods that are long and since the last major exhibitions, all these victims have not yet declared the diseases that result from them. On the other hand, we know that even today, new people are exposed to asbestos because they are in buildings, in houses that are renovated without always taking the necessary precautions. Some container parks are not suitable. You have to break the asbestos plates that you remove at home to take them to the container park. Today there are still omnisport halls, schools full of asbestos. Not all inventories are done and the precautionary measures to be taken are not all identified for all these sites where asbestos is present. So we are not leaving, and we are very far from being. Minister, we did not support the bill because there is a lack of expansion to other diseases, such as lung cancer as a priority, and then larynx cancer. It also appears that ovarian cancers are particularly related to asbestos exposure. Nor does your project include the prospects that would allow a victim of asbestos, even if it is compensated by the Asbestos Fund, to go to court to highlight the responsibility of the company or of the person who exposed him or her to asbestos. Finally, today's provisions define the responsibilities of companies that expose people to asbestos. All employers contribute in the same way. So as soon as you hire a worker today, you contribute to the asbestos fund, while obviously other employers participated, knowing that they were exposing their workers to asbestos. They have left the country, made themselves insolvent or developed activities elsewhere in the world, where they can make new victims. It is important, however, that the responsibility of those who expose and those who have voluntarily exposed be highlighted, and that they be required to participate or sanction where possible, and more importantly than employers are required to do. We had a first audition. I hope that the Members of the Committee on Social Affairs or of the Committee on Public Health - there is a discussion on where this text will be worked - will be able to organise a working agenda to address these necessary improvements requested by associations of victims. We know, Madam Minister, that you have received the representatives. They had come to the hearings and highlighted the need to work on prevention. This would define concrete elements for the use of this envelope you are planning to use. All this should contribute to serious work. As'scaled cat fears cold water', because promises of work have not always been respected, and the same has sometimes been true of commitments made, we have nevertheless, together with my colleagues Dedry and Willaert, re-tabled amendments which present the desired improvements that I have just mentioned. We have also tabled two amendments, together with Mrs Fonck, which reflect another dimension, namely the protection of workers. This has been highlighted by the representatives of workers who have worked in Coverit, Eternit, etc., and who, in their current work exposed to asbestos or other chemical substances and other working conditions, develop diseases that start immediately or twenty, thirty years later, during the pension. It is really necessary to identify exposures to these substances throughout the professional career, so that, if the worker declares a disease or symptoms that can be identified as disturbing, the general practitioner, a specialist physician, the occupational physician or the medical advisor can relate to the exposures to which he or she has been exposed at his or her workplace. This information must be able to be transmitted, but also kept in such a way as to be able to intervene even after the end of the career. This information must also be able to be used for scientific treatment and I agree with your concern to improve research and prevention. It is important to collect data and identify workers who develop specific diseases, as well as the substances to which they have been exposed. Correlations must be developed in order to avoid such exposures and to strengthen prevention or to take measures to ban substances that would be toxic to workers. Hence the need to re-mobilize the members of this Assembly on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u135	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, if an expression could sum up this project, it would be "the missed opportunity". I will point out three points that will prove it irrefutablely. The first is that the objective as such is completely missed. I think I can clearly say here that you took things upside down. Of course, we can agree on the objective if it is to say that the funding of the fund needs to be adapted to reflect reality. It's obvious. But at the same time, we cannot agree with the way you do it, since this adaptation is made backwards and blinds. The government is now cutting funding for the Asbestos Fund, but the existential question that should have been asked in advance was why the reserves of EUR 80 million could have been capitalised. Is it not simply that a significant number of asbestos victims have not been taken into account, have not been compensated, have passed through the meshes of the net? Those victims who have not been compensated, this obviously potentially explains the fact that the €80 million reserve has been built up. Minister, you did not answer this question in committee. I don't even know if you've even wondered. For me, what is crucial is that the funding of the fund corresponds to actual current and future needs. The adaptation you are making does not take into account the fact that many victims could have, should have been taken into account. This number of victims would have increased had cancers taken into account in other countries in particular. I am thinking in particular of bronchopulmonary cancers. In France, at the level of the statistics of their asbestos fund, half of the cancers taken care of by this fund are broncho-pulmonary cancers. In Belgium, these cancers are taken care of by the Occupational Diseases Fund, but in a much stricter, much more restrictive way. As a result, these victims are significantly less compensated. When we compare more broadly with the French system, by comparing it to an equal population, there are three times as many victims compensated in France, which is enormous. So we should have introduced bronchopulmonary cancer right now, but also larynx cancer and ovarian cancer, since there is very clear scientific evidence between exposure to asbestos and the occurrence of these cancers - apart of of course from other causes such as tobacco. All of a sudden, my colleague Mr Clarinval agrees to move forward on these points. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only encourage you to vote on our amendments, which you rejected in committee without giving them a single second, without considering whether the current failure to take account of these victims was not the cause of this accumulation of money capitalised in this fund, with the creation of a reserve of 80 million. I am again tabling these amendments. You know the objectives; this is not the first time I have intervened on this issue. I will continue to fight so that these victims can finally be taken into account, since the current scientific evidence is extremely clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u136	I would like to clarify what I said earlier, so that Mrs Fonck cannot let the opposite be said. We have clearly distinguished the financing debate from the other issues to be discussed in relation to asbestos. We therefore discussed the issue of funding. We've reached an agreement. He's very good. We agreed that the remaining issues would be addressed in the near future as part of the evaluation. I made it very clear earlier that we were open to the principle of enlargement, that we were open to legal immunisation of companies that had been involved in asbestos production. I was also open to the polluter pays principle. I do not think I can be more clear about our intentions in this area. But in the meantime, we do not legislate like this without having first assessed things and agreed on these different objectives. Here, there is a question of funding. Your amendments relate to another subject. That is why they have not been studied. It's simply not planned. So that there is no equivocation: we are quite open to the problems that you are talking about. We are willing to discuss the victims. But the time was not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u137	Your logic is first to reduce funding, before considering that other victims can benefit from compensation. Normally, serious work, the logic would have been to work in the other direction. In order to work well, it would have been necessary to reform what had to be done in terms of the conditions of compensation, the target population, the types of victims and, above all, the types of cancer that must be taken into account. The modalities for compensation should have been reviewed. This would then have resulted in a projection of the budgets expected a priori and, if necessary, would have modified the aspects of the funding modalities. Here, you do things backwards. You remove, you clearly reduce the funding of the Fund, starting from the principle that you will see afterwards, hoping that it is not at Saint-Glinglin. On the other hand, you say that you are open, but that an evaluation must first be carried out. The asbestos fund was evaluated ten years ago, Mr. Clarinval! I take note of the findings made today. This happens after this little turn. This comes especially after we have fought in committee to hear the victims. The representatives of the victims were thus finally able to be heard. But I can only note, again and again, that while the victims should have been at the heart of the asbestos fund's consideration and approach in determining what should be changed in this area and then adapting the asbestos fund to the new realities, you have decided politically to reach the Fund's funding, without knowing whether this would be consistent with the changes, adaptations and improvements to the Fund, which are nevertheless indispensable. I would remind you that this fund has been in existence for ten years. First of all, I wanted to point out that you had missed the goal and that you had done things backwards, even blindly. Moreover, as I have just mentioned, you are not making any improvements in the operation of the fund. I talked about the victims and other cancers that should have been taken into account. In any case, bronchopulmonary cancer should have been considered for several years. I would like to remind you, Madam Minister, that new scientific studies have been carried out on cancers other than broncho-pulmonary cancers, larynx and ovarian cancer, including pharynx, stomach and colon cancer. All scientific data on these new cancers will also need to be reviewed. Other improvements could also have been made; this will be discussed later, but I will list them here quickly: the deadlines for a decision are not binding and are much longer and more important than in other countries. Progress must be made in this area with processing time requirements. The limitation period should have been adjusted if there is clear evidence that a period of 40 years may elapse between the time of exposure to asbestos and the onset of the disease. The rules on informing victims in order to facilitate their efforts but also the transmission of their files should have been reviewed. Finally, the financing model - and Mr Clarinval is joined - is directly affected, since the financial participation which I believe must be more important for employers whose responsibility has been recognized in court, in accordance with the polluter pays principle, must be at the heart of the scheme. None of this has been done. I have, of course, again tabled my amendments which pursue these objectives here in plenary. If you agree so much, do not hesitate to be consistent with your words in your actions. The third element to be highlighted is the fact that there has been no consultation with the federated entities or any consideration of the concerns of the victims. However, Madam Minister, I can only insist on this in order to consult with the federated entities, particularly on the whole aspect of prevention and the risks associated with exposure to asbestos, since, still today, many public and private buildings have not yet been disposed of. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to obtain two things in committee. The first is that auditions are carried out. They were. The second is that I have also demanded that we be able to work quickly on the bills that have been tabled and that we have been transcribed here in the form of amendments, so that we can improve this fund, but not just on the budget side, to cut the budget, but above all, to improve its functioning and to take much greater account of asbestos victims, whether they are professional victims or environmental victims. I'll say it again one more time. We should have worked in the other direction: first improve the fund and then adjust its funding. We shall see, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, whether you are honouring the commitments you have made and whether we can work in the next few weeks and not just pretend, commission or refer to evaluations that can no longer be justified. We will see if we can actually make progress, in which case you will live up to your commitment. If, on the other hand, you put this file on the agenda, if you pretend to be talking about it, without putting it into practice or making any progress in favour of the victims, then we should, in that case, conclude that you have no consideration for the victims of asbestos. I challenge you to move forward together, majority and opposition. It is a reality that some people live on a daily basis and I hope that your personal responsibility will be important enough to take these victims into account and make concrete progress. For all these reasons, we will not support this text. To send you a signal of hope in order to finally realize and work seriously in the coming weeks, we will abstain. I hope we don't regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u138	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are talking about today concerns the funding of the Fund. As my colleagues have pointed out, this is only a facet of a crucial problem, that of compensation for victims of asbestos. Today, the Fund is overfunded, it is a reality, but that does not mean that tomorrow the needs will not be greater. This fund is crucial for the compensation of victims of asbestos, a fundamental issue of social justice. Its financing must therefore be guaranteed at all times, especially since we do not yet know the future needs. It is therefore important for the Fund to maintain access to established reserves and for employers' contributions to be adjusted in the event of more claims for compensation. Minister, we had the opportunity to discuss these two issues in committee and you were reassuring. That's a good thing. I have expressed it in committee, we have regrets – about which you are less receptive – about the means put on the table for risk prevention. This is a step forward, but why cap it? The law sets a maximum of 650 000 euros. We would have preferred that the means be considered as a minimum and that this could be adapted to the severity of the diseases resulting from asbestos. Beyond that, we are concerned about two issues. First of all, the opportunity to review the financing of the asbestos fund today. Why today? I agree with what my colleagues have said. Indeed, the associations of victims heard in social affairs and health committees clearly indicate that not all needs are met. I understood that the majority was open to an extension of the Fund's powers and broad intervention. That's the point. Shouldn't we have had to tackle this project before financing so that things could have been done in order? Is the government committed to adapting the regulations on the use of the Fund? If so, would it do so in such a way as to meet the needs of the victims? Secondly, the question of civil immunity arises. The current legislative framework provides that the employer cannot be held civilly liable if the Fund has intervened. This is the basis of our occupational risk policy. This is the basis of collective responsibility. However, this principle is not absolute and must be able to take account of the circumstances. Thus, the employer who acted intentionally will not be entitled to this compensation. Shouldn't this notion be refined? The Government has instructed the Commission for the Reform of Occupational Diseases, not the social partners, to consider a reform of this principle of civil immunity within the system of occupational risks, including for the asbestos fund. Madam Minister, it is essential that the social partners are more than involved in this reflection. Indeed, this is a historic social compromise, which is the basis of the legislation on occupational hazard compensation, which benefits both workers and employers. The former, which fall within the scope of the legislation on occupational diseases, receive compensation without having to prove the fault of the employer or anyone else. This system allows a victim of asbestos, whose life expectancy is unfortunately limited, to be compensated quickly without having to endure a long procedural battle. The latter assume the risk collectively and are therefore not personally responsible. This is a delicate balance between the social partners, which is the basis of our social security. For us, if it were to evolve, this could only be the case on the proposal of the social partners. I therefore hope that the government will respect social consultation – at least in this area. In conclusion, given the uncertainties that remain and the regrets that we have been able to express, we will abstain from this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u139	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this case illustrates a certain slightness in the management of the consequences of asbestos exposure in our country. It had begun well. This is the story of a fund created about ten years ago with the laudable intention of compensating the victims of asbestos. Of course, it was not perfect, but it had the merit of existence and its financing was assured, on the one hand, by an annual subsidy financed by VAT and, on the other hand, by an employer's contribution. However, instead of changing it regularly with a view to improving compensation for victims – as has been done in other countries – policymakers have allowed unused reserves to accumulate. So much so that, despite the fact that the federal state did not feed it either in 2015, or in 2016, the reserves reached 80 million euros. Today, instead of proposing structural reform, the government decides to reform funding without prior consultation with the main stakeholders, and calls for urgency. Minister, you justify this reform by saying that it is better to take real needs into account. Of course. We can agree that good management means that funding corresponds to the maximum of real needs. We can't let the reserves sleep like this. But the problem lies in how real needs are dealt with in this case. It is known that the number of victims will increase from 2020 onwards. During the hearings of the Belgian Association of Asbestos Victims and the Amiante-Dangerous Products Collective, we heard terrible things. As a teacher, I was also particularly touched by what we heard about the dangers that threaten our schools. The question of the inclusion of certain cancers, including lung cancer, is an issue of concern. The hearings convinced us of the need to broaden the list of compensable diseases, especially since they provided figures from other European countries. We were able to see the extent of the damage not only for people directly exposed to asbestos but also for their loved ones, for example, for those who wash their clothes, not to mention the environmental victims. We appreciate the creation of a maximum of €650,000 in the Fund for prevention and research. This is a positive aspect of your reform, even if the amount seems to us to be very modest in relation to the accumulated reserves and the prevention needs formulated by the people interviewed. Of course, it will always be possible to discuss further the evolution of compensation for victims, as cases of various cancers can be attributed to asbestos, including lung cancer. We will be able to deal in committee with a number of important issues, such as the possibility of bringing to justice those compensated by the Fund, the statute of limitations, information to victims, the technique of eliminating asbestos and the case of self-employed workers who are contaminated. We remain constructive in relation to the continuation of this work. But why start by voting on this text, which is supposed to make it possible to take better account of needs, before setting up a more ambitious project to better tarnish these needs? Why do this only for budgetary reasons? We cannot ignore the fact that your government has decided to draw up 60 million of the current reserves of the fund to give them back to the overall management of employees, and 223,000 euros for the overall management of the self-employed. Minister, public health issues are too important to us to give priority to financial issues. We deplore the fact that we were unable to deal with the financial aspect and the issue of needs together. For these reasons, we will not be able to support your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go too far, since we have already spoken in committee during the examination of the draft and during the hearings. This project is motivated by the fact that the Asbestos Fund has built a certain reserve in recent years. Currently, federal government funding has not been provided for either 2015 or 2016. Only employers' contributions were paid; reserves amounted to EUR 80 million. Therefore, one might tend to believe that there is too much money to compensate victims of asbestos, whereas in reality - and this is what comes out of the hearings - there is too little money to compensate victims of asbestos and to solve the other problems caused by this material. The project introduces a new funding system, which opens or closes some sources of funding, in order to avoid building new reserves. What are the problems? First, it is to be myopic that do not constitute reservations. The incubation period for mesothelioma is 10 to 40 years, with an average of 35 years. As the peak in asbestos use in Belgium was in the 1980s, there is a risk of peak spending around 2025. This is in any case what the French Senate considers. If we don't have more reserves, we'll be running out. Secondly, the project does nothing to solve the fundamental problem of financing the asbestos fund, which is not based on the polluter pays principle. Eternit paid 40 000 euros per mesothelioma victim for whom it is shown that she had contracted cancer due to her activities in contact with fibrocement products. But in return, the victims had to sign a sort of almost mafia-like agreement that even prohibited them from making known the existence of the remuneration obtained. Since its existence, Eternit has paid the asbestos fund as much as any other employer. So the one who is responsible, among others - since there are a few others, but Eternit is the best known - pays as much, no more, as a firm that has nothing to do with the responsibility of asbestos. And we know that the dangers of asbestos have been known for a long time, and even since the beginning of the twentieth century! The result is that the polluter does not pay any more. Another point is that this project does not provide a solution to a real problem: victims must choose between a very partial compensation which they can obtain immediately and, if they want more, an uncertain procedure against the polluter. There is no possibility of seeking partial compensation while introducing a procedure for compensation. Another problem, which was pointed out during the hearings, is that some diseases are not recognized by the fund, especially lung cancer due to asbestos. The Asbestos Fund objects that there are other causes for lung cancer than asbestos. However, lung cancer is recognized as an occupational disease due to asbestos. But in another context, it is not possible to obtain compensation for this cancer. We know how to distinguish between lung cancer caused by asbestos and cancer that is not, but the Asbestos Fund refuses to recognize it. Experts estimate that 5 to 10% of the 7,000 lung cancers are caused by asbestos, resulting in between 350 and 700 cancers per year. This number is therefore higher, even in its low range, than that of mesotheliomas. That is why we have introduced an amendment to extend the asbestos fund's compensation to lung cancer. We have introduced another amendment calling for the ratification of the Lugano Convention, which aims to ensure adequate compensation for damage resulting from activities hazardous to the environment and which provides for preventive and rehabilitation measures. Prevention is another problem in terms of lack of funding. The system established by this Convention is based on objective responsibility with reference to the polluter pays principle. This principle, which I believe is essential, is not retained in the current legislation, nor in the one which will result from this bad draft, if it is voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u141	Mr President, I would like to thank Members for their speeches in this plenary session and in committee. Mr Clarinval, you have indicated that, for the first time, an amount is provided for prevention. We will be able to assess the needs in this area and, if necessary, we will discuss them with the Communities. Mrs Gerkens, as you said, this is a transitional reform from 2017 to 2019. As of 2020, the Asbestos Fund will benefit from structural funding. You know that the social partners have been seeking change since 2013. It was not easy to find a solution. The government and the social partners negotiated this agreement for 18 months. Mrs Fonck, as the aim is to achieve structural funding, there will be an annual allocation from the federal government to cover actual spending. For the first time, employers' contributions are set at 0,01 %. I don't understand why you'll abstain. Maybe it's your commitment to this case that's a bad counselor. As planned, the issue of funding has been dealt with in the Social Affairs Committee. We will study possible indications in the light of new studies in this area. The Scientific Committee will indeed be able to guide us if we wish to broaden the scope. How can we ensure that new known indications will also be reimbursed for patients? In this context, the role of the Scientific Committee is very important. Moreover, it has already issued an opinion on the possibility of enlargement in this area. That advice will be followed. I will also ask the Commission for an opinion on the reform of the 21st century occupational diseases on the revision of the principle of the civil-law exemption from occupational risk liability, referred to in the legislative proposal, and other possible elements. This committee opted to work in two phases. The first phase is this bill, which implements the advice of the social partners and is therefore purely about financing. The second stage is that after hearings with victims, the new indications and possibly an extension of the tasks of the Asbestos Fund can be discussed, taking into account the recent Jonckheere family judgment. Many years ago, I was one of the authors of the design for the Asbestos Fund. The Committee welcomes the fact that funding for the following years is also guaranteed in a structural way. I thank the services for the report and I thank everyone for their participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u142	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u143	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2369/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2369/4) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u144	• 21........................................................................................................................... Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 5/1(n) • 26 October 2000 Marco Van Hees (2369/5) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 5/1(n) • 27 March 2010 Marco Van Hees (2369/5) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 5/2(n) • 22.................................................................................................................... Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 5/3(n) • 23.................................................................................................................... Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 5/4(n) • 24.................................................................................................................... Annex V.Part • 25 years Muriel Gerkens cs (2369/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u145	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u146	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u147	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Leen Dierick, Nathalie Muylle, Jef Van den Bergh, Griet Smaers, Wouter Beke.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u148	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u149	Mr President, is Minister Peeters joining us to discuss this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u150	I'm told he's on his way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u151	I'd rather intervene when he's here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u152	I ask the services to call Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u153	There he is. Mr Delizée, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u154	Minister, I think it's best for you to be here to discuss this project even if it won't take long, I assure you. We have discussed this project in committee and, let us be honest, your project has a good intention. This is already a positive starting point, Minister. We said it in committee. It is also true that it has been 10 years since the Constitutional Court ruled that a situation which prevails in the construction sector is discriminatory, namely that architects on the one hand and other professionals in the sector on the other hand are not subject to the same insurance obligations. This is not a particular arrangement but a legal vacuum. And for the past 10 years, this situation has not been taken into account. Ten years later, at the time this project was tabled, I confess that our group expected a lot of it because it had to be a good thing for architects who often find themselves alone to take on reparation in the event of a conviction in court. This project should also be a good thing for consumers who should be better protected from the insolvency of stakeholders. Unfortunately, when we look at your project, we realize that it is very limited. Firstly, the harmonised insurance scheme for all providers in the sector concerns only 10-year liability. Conversely, the 1939 law, which dealt only with architects, was much broader and covered the whole field of responsibility. According to the Order of Architects, this is an important limitation, since they tell us that more than 90% of claims are not covered by the 10-year guarantee. There, we are already missing an element in terms of insurability. Secondly, the project concerns only certain categories of buildings. For example, student housing or workers who choose a collective way of life are excluded without being exhaustive. In this way, the government sends a somewhat special message to these categories of the population. Third and final point, the law on architects provided for wide coverage, up to €1.5 million for damage resulting from personal injury or €500,000 for material damage and immaterial damage. Here too, this is harmonisation from the bottom, since the amount covered will be up to EUR 500 000. In short, less consumer coverage. Moreover, the Council of State has strongly criticized the transaction regime in place, which deprives the Public Prosecutor's Office of the power to decide whether or not to implement a criminal procedure without any control on its part. My conclusion, Minister, is that the intention is good, but that the opportunity is missed, as I have had the opportunity to tell you in committee. This is harmonisation from the bottom. There is no obvious added value for the consumer. The government did not take into account the criticisms made by the Council of State or by the Order of Architects in concertation. It might even be that the discriminatory situation that was supposed to be removed would soon be restored. Indeed, you have confirmed to us that the government is aware of the limitations of the bill and that Mr. Borsus is preparing a sort of restorative law to correct the negative effects on the consumer. It seems that this project is being drafted, but we do not have it. From the point of view of legislative work, it is aberrant that we cannot see the whole issue. We have the Peeters component, but not the Borsus component, and we're going to deal with each other without the other. We would have wanted to have a global view of the case. It's a small step policy, or maybe a tango, minister. Two steps forward, one step backwards, or vice versa. We'll see about it. It'll be the government's tango. Restorative legislation applies only to architects and surveyors, excluding contractors. We believe that the discrimination that is being pushed out of the door with this bill could very well come back out the window with the next law. For all these reasons, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that we will not vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u155	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we have had the opportunity to debate this bill, it is intended to put an end to discrimination relayed by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 12 July 2007. To date, only architects were obliged to take out ten-year liability insurance, to which other construction occupations were not subject. Of course, this distinction was not based on objective and reasonable justification. The purpose of this bill is therefore to eliminate this discrimination. It has other advantages. I am, of course, talking about better regulation of the market in construction and better protection of the contractor. I can only rejoice in that too. Colleagues, some questions have been raised, in particular, about the scope of the insurance obligation and the risk of increasing premiums for the final consumer. With regard to the restriction to housing buildings only, the Minister replied by stating that he had analysed the French case and that he had found the danger of an overly broad approach. That's why the choice was made. In this way, we will avoid excessive judicialization of disputes. With respect to premiums, the Minister also guarantees that the increase in coverage will not result in their increase and that he will negotiate to that effect. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I can only rejoice and ask you to follow us with this aim of providing better protection to the contractors, by removing a fact of discrimination which has been proven for years. As you will understand, my group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u156	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. Minister, of course, we can share the purpose of the bill. It was indeed essential to bring us into line with the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 12 July 2007 – that is, time! - but also, and above all, to ensure a better guarantee of the successful completion of the work and greater protection of the contractor, who is the consumer in many cases. However, my group will not support your bill as it stands. The reasons are obvious and have already been mentioned by some colleagues. First, the fact that the government does not impose mandatory insurance for the construction of buildings for collective housing, such as student housing, cannot be validly accepted. In synthesizing, the bill deals only with individual dwellings such as single-family homes or apartments. This exception is dangerous and is not justified in your project. Secondly, the government intends to limit the scope of the bill to certain damages. This excludes damage resulting from radioactivity, aesthetic damage, pure immaterial damage, etc. In committee, you explained that limiting the scope of the project to certain types of damage is justified in view of the fact that – I quote – "the insurance sector is not, to date, ready to take over maximum risk coverage". The question to be asked immediately is therefore, in the event of damage that is excluded by your bill, what will be the protection of the consumer. Thirdly, with regard to sanctions, article 15 of the draft law states that offences will be punishable by a fine of 26 to 10,000 euros. However, Article 14, § 4 of the draft provides for the possibility of a transaction, without the possibility of the case being referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I therefore assume that if a professional covered by the bill fails to comply with his or her obligations, he or she will be able to continue his or her professional activity if he or she decides to honour a certain sum, which has not yet been fixed by Royal Order. This transactional mechanism was called into question by the Council of State. It was suggested that a mechanism should be put in place to allow the competent official to propose a transactional amount, but only after a certain period of time had been left for the prosecution to be decided. This is what is required in all matters relating to administrative sanctions. However, you did not find it useful to take this into account. However, you could have been inspired by a CD&V bill that allowed for extensive protection for the owners of the work. Again, the lack of will made it possible to do only half-tone work. I very much regret it. With restrictions and other limitations on the very essence of the bill, you will easily understand that my group will not support your bill. Contractor consumers deserve greater protection and not such limited protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u157	Mr President, Minister, I have already said in committee that we are pleased that there is a solution to the non-existent guarantee regarding the ten-year liability of the players in the construction sector. I also noted in committee that the cost of the insurance contract should be monitored. This must remain feasible because ultimately it is the consumer, in this case the builder, who has to bear the costs. You have reassured us and told us that you do not want to see 5% as in France. After your speech, we have once again raised our voices in various bodies and no one has been able to give us any assurance. For this reason, Minister, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a discussion took place in committee and there was broad consultation with all stakeholders in the sector, architects and construction companies. Mrs Vanheste, you have rightly referred to the fact that, with the French example in mind, we have limited ourselves to a number of essential elements. If the project is limited to essential guarantees, this can be explained by the example of the situation in France, a country which has encountered enormous problems in this field. There the legislation has had to be amended several times, because of the heavy costs for consumers as a result of the French insurance scheme and its legislation. That is why I would like to stress once again that we are starting here very carefully and will do everything in our power to ensure that the cost of the project is kept as low as possible as long as the time allowed for its entry into force. If you have been informed, then I can only underline that at the moment, of course, it is not certain what the final cost will be, but at least that is what I am assuming is lower than that in France, where a very wide insurance policy has been offered or offered. Mr Delizée, like others, you are right to say that this is a simple project. However, I agree that after some time, it will be possible to improve or increase planned activities. We can extend this at some point, when it is clear what we intend to do with this fundamental and essential draft. I hope that this draft can be approved with this additional explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u159	Minister, on the aspect of the broad consultation that you are talking about, it is not the opinion of the Order of Architects that complains of not having been heard and of not having followed up at the consultation meetings that you had with him at the beginning. On this side, he is not satisfied, in any case, with what you call "wide consultation". Secondly, you confirm that this is a very simple project, which should be improved or reviewed over time. So, finally, you confirm the minimalist and incomplete nature of your project. That is what I said at the rostrum earlier. It is assumed that there has certainly been pressure from the sector and from some large companies not to have an extended insurance obligation which, however, would provide better protection for consumers. That's why, minister, you didn't convince me. Our group will continue to vote against your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u160	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u161	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2412/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2412/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill on the compulsory insurance of ten-year civil liability of contractors, architects and other providers of the construction of real estate and amending the Act of 20 February 1939 on the protection of the title and profession of architect". The title in French has been amended by the commission in "Draft law on the compulsory insurance of ten-year civil liability of contractors, architects and other providers of the construction of real estate and amending the law of 20 February 1939 on the protection of the title and profession of architect". The draft law has 22 articles. The bill has 22 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u162	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u163	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Katja Gabriels, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Patrick Dewael, Franky Demon. This bill was returned to the committee during the plenary session of 9 February 2017. This bill was referred to the committee at the plenary session on 9 February 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u164	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr De Groote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u165	Mr President, this legislative proposal allows police services to consult the database of unpaid penalty fines in such a way that they can also proceed with the recovery of late payments. Thanks to data on number plates based on number plate recognition one can collect backstables and even immobilize vehicles. The discussion of the proposal in committee was very smooth. However, an amendment was tabled to clarify that the provision in question is optional. It is not an obligation for the police to do so and not a core task. The text has already been discussed in plenary, but was then sent back to committee, because an amendment also required a reference to the programme law. Finally, amendment and proposal were adopted by 10 votes to two abstentions. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to make the following point. The proposal submitted by several mayors and ships, including Mr Dewael, is an example of how executive managers working on the ground bring their expertise to the hemisphere and bring added value here. Whoever thinks they have seen the light and claims that they do not belong in the hemisphere, I can only say that they are straying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u166	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u167	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1610/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1610/9) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal to amend Articles 52 and 53 of the Programme Act of 25 December 2016'. The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending sections 52 and 53 of the Programme Law of 25 December 2016". The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u168	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u169	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2004: Conseil Degroote, Koen Metsu, Franky Demon 1766: Alain Top. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u170	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Franky Demon and Mrs Vanessa Matz, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u171	Mr President, this proposal aims to improve the functioning of the police council in multi-municipal areas. What was the occasion? The current law on integrated police refers in several places to the new municipal law. However, due to state reforms, the new municipal law has been repealed. So a legal vacuum is created and there is legal uncertainty. The Council of State recommended that this law be reviewed in the interests of legal certainty. The Council also recommended that new provisions be entered in the law in those places where reference is made to the new municipal law which has now been repealed. That is why two things are being done through this proposal. A number of provisions are themselves incorporated into the law. It also provides that the multi-municipal zones must draw up their own rules of procedure. There are certain points that can be mentioned. For example, matters that are registered in the law itself are the quorum to be present at the meetings of the police council, the time limit for summoning, the bans to sit and rules on public access. Things included in the Rules of Procedure include the digital way of calling, on which Mr Top made a very good speech, the way of publishing and reading the minutes. Ik kom tot of conclusion. I can imagine that the changes proposed here will lead to greater clarity, legal certainty and efficiency. It is a first step, because several Members have also referred to the question of what direction we should take with the police council in the future. That question will lead to exchanges of views. We are all very aware of that. However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone. After all, across party boundaries and the boundaries between majority and minority, we have arranged and discussed all this together. I would like to thank Mr Top once again, who has made a very good speech on this subject. The proposal is an example of good cooperation. Members will therefore be able to support the legislative proposal in the broadest sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u172	Mr President, allow me to add a supplement to Mr Degroot's explanation. The present proposal is based on a legislative proposal tabled by our group to digitise the police councils. On our bill, an opinion was requested from the Council of State. The Council of State recommended that the proposal be extended. A new legislative proposal has been tabled by the majority parties, which is now before us. My proposal was to digitise the police councils, as is already the case, for example, with the municipal councils, and not to impose substantial formal requirements, so that the validity of the decisions of those administrative bodies in the police zones would not be compromised. I am glad that the bill is now before us, even though it has lasted a few months and some trees have died in the meantime, although the latter often happens in Flanders. I'm glad, for all the police zones, that we can approve of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u173	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u174	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2004/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2004/7) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u175	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u176	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Conseil Degroote, Brecht Vermeulen, Veerle Heeren.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u177	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Gabriels is the rapporteur and refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u178	Mr President, I shall be brief. The need for the proposal has arisen as a result of increasing the retirement age for police officers. The arrangement so far was that, if one applied for, for example, the Chief Constable's mandate, one should not be older than sixty years, because one should be able to function for five years. Now that age condition can no longer be laid down. On the basis of a fixed age, it is now only foreseen that five more years should be allowed to continue, with one exception, particularly in the case of mergers of police zones. In that case one can go for less. There is, moreover, a specific case in Limburg that will be resolved through this proposal. I believe that everyone can support that, for which I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u179	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u180	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2385/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2385/1) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u181	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u182	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u183	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2379/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2379/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u184	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u185	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Grovonius, who refers to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u186	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2406/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2406/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u187	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u188	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoît Lutgen, Isabelle Poncelet, Vanessa Matz The Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises proposes that this bill be rejected. (1604/2) The Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises proposes to reject this bill. (1604/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Mr Van den Bergh is the rapporteur but does not ask to speak. Mr Lutgen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to associate Isabelle Poncelet and Vanessa Matz with this bill. The question raised by this bill is to be able to develop the whole of our territory through quality coverage of both mobile telephony and the Internet. Indeed, who can believe that today we can develop our territory and our companies, support independents, artisans without having this quality access to mobile and internet telephony throughout our territory? Who can believe that we can develop culture without quality access to the web today in our country? Who can believe that in our schools, we can develop digital projects without this quality throughout our territory? Today, 700,000 people in our country are either underserved by mobile telephones or suffer completely from non-connection across the country. It is therefore both an economic issue and an issue of employment, of training. It is also an environmental issue, I will come to it, but also a democratic one. It's a bit of a hustle and bustle; it makes a few laugh. Yet it is an extremely important subject for the citizens of our country. I was telling you about 700,000 people. The Ecolo Group will also be pleased because, in the proposal I make, there is, in particular, the solution of intrabelgian roaming. What is it? This means that the user can go directly to the best tower of the operator of choice. Today, Mr Nollet, when you come to Belgium with a foreign gsm, you will have better coverage than if you use a Belgian gsm because your French operator is looking for the best Belgian operator. Therefore, the Belgian intra-roaming proposal, which exists in other countries, for example in Morocco, avoids dispersion, the increase in the number of towers throughout our region, since operators must agree through this proposal. Finally, I would like to address a number of parliamentarians here, also reaching out to the majority, who have been surprised and have called on the public authorities to deal with the Internet and mobile telephone networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u190	Mr. President, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u191	No. Mr Foret, only the rapporteur and those who have introduced this proposal can speak. Mr Lutgen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u192	Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u193	That's nice of you! Take refuge behind this kind of argument not to support all rural people, not to support the self-employed, SMEs who today do not have access to the Internet, to say tomorrow, to people who are looking for jobs that they do not have access to mobile phones. In our country, fifty years ago, it was possible to have fixed telephony everywhere, as a universal service. Today, no doubt that would no longer be possible. [[Brouhahaha]] Mr. Foret, calm down! Above all, vote on the proposal. Be consistent in your words and deeds! Mr Clarinval, on many occasions, said that we must have Internet networks everywhere and for everyone. How can you ask job seekers to find a job if they do not have access to the Internet? If they don't have mobile phone? How can you develop, in terms of tourism, guest rooms, lodgings, hotels, attractions if there is not even internet access? How do you want to develop our territories? Mr Foret, this digital divide is not just an economic issue. It is not just a question of employment, or for the independents of our villages; it is also a democratic question. Go see what is happening in France: the digital divide, the places that are forgotten, the villages, the entire neighbourhoods that vote on the far right because there are no more public services, because we are disinvesting, as you do, at the rail level, as you do in the area of health rights, as you do in relation to the post office and other public services. [[Brouhahaha]] Yes, Mr. Foret. Look at the results! Deserts at the level of public services, economic deserts lead to abandonment. The forgotten of the Republic in France vote for the far right. And the forgotten of our kingdom tend to get tired of the policies that are being carried out in this regard! [[Brouhahaha]] When you are handed over for your words to join your deeds, you make a noise! But we simply ask you, if it is so complicated, for a group such as yours, to be consistent. The proposal I make, of universal service, is not contested by the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 11 June 2015, which states that it is possible to travel the whole territory and to ensure that access is the same for all and everywhere. The 2002 directive on public services and universal service calls for investment, bringing the Internet and mobile telephony to all inhabitants, to support these investments because they guarantee access to culture, training, services and work for our inhabitants. This applies not only to rural areas, but also to a range of urban areas which have difficulties, whether in Flanders or Wallonia. We simply propose to make possible in the twenty-first century what was the case with fixed telephony in the twentieth century. The State, at the time, ensured that in each Region, in each municipality, each neighbourhood, for each inhabitant, access to fixed telephones and telephone services, through telephone booths, was possible. This is no longer the case today because there is only profitability that counts. Accessibility is no longer permitted. How do you want to develop health care and telework without this possibility of connection? The disconnection of some of our inhabitants makes economic activity and social ties extremely difficult. I honestly did not understand the reaction to my intervention. Indeed, we still have the right, from the opposition benches, to try to be constructive, positive, to table a bill, to try to advance the cause of all the territories of our country, and to ensure that there is equal treatment among all citizens. This does not seem to me to be so complicated to hear, whether on the benches of the majority or on the benches of the opposition. You have the opportunity here, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to join the floor, to agree with your statements and your electoral promises and to ensure that, socially, economically, environmentally, in terms of education and training, everyone in our country has the same opportunity. I therefore urge you to support this proposal for a law which joins the 2002 European Directive and which will allow our inhabitants to still believe in the political and public force to bring solutions of proximity and quality for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u194	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u195	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (2429/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (2429/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u196	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u197	The Chamber should appoint a new Dutch-speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body to replace Mr Steven De Luyck. The Chamber must appoint a new Dutch-speaking member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body to replace Mr. Steven De Luyck. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 decided to apply gender parity by category. Mr Steven De Luyck should therefore be replaced by someone of the same sex. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 decided to apply gender parity by category. Mr. Steven De Luyck must therefore be replaced by a member of the same sex. According to the decision of the plenary session of 22 December 2016, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 13 January 2017 for the mandate of a male Dutch speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on the police information. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 December 2016, a call for candidates for the term of office of Dutch-speaking male member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body was published in the Belgian Monitor of 13 January 2017. The following application was submitted within the prescribed period: Mr Michel Deraemaeker, Chief Constable of the Uccle-Watermaal-Bosvoorde-Oudergem Police Zone. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Mr Michel Deraemaeker, Chief of Corps of the Uccle-Watermael-Boitsfort-Auderghem Police Area. Mr Michel Deraemaeker has a security clearance of the "very secret" level. Mr. Michel Deraemaeker has a security clearance at the "very secret" level. Since there is only one candidate, Mr Michel Deraemaeker may, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, be declared a member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on the police information. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Mr. Michel Deraemaeker elected as a member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u198	The Government requested urgent treatment under Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law transposing into Belgian law Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for their online use in the internal market, No. 2451/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the draft law transposing into Belgian law Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 concerning the collective management of copyright and related rights and the granting of multi-territorial licences of rights in musical works for their online use in the internal market, No 2451/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. We have accepted the tradition that the government motivates urgency. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u199	Mr President, this is a transposition into Belgian law of a European directive. This directive should have already been transposed in April last year. It's a rather complex device, hence the delay. We have received a reminder from the European Commission inviting us to transpose this directive by 16 June. The urgency is justified in order to avoid additional procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u200	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 May 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Jan Spooren, Mr Wouter Raskin and Mr Wim Van der Donkt and Mrs Daphné Dumery) amending the Law on the Recovery of 22 January 1985 laying down social provisions as regards the flexibility of the inclusion of thematic leave, No. 2464/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u201	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Nathalie Muylle, Mr Sonja Becq and Mr Els Van Hoof) on the reimbursement of first-line psychological care, No. 2466/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u202	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 May 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Jan Spooren, Wouter Raskin and Wim Van der Donckt and Mrs Daphné Dumery) amending the reorganization law containing social provisions of 22 January 1985 with regard to the flexibilisation of the taking of thematic holidays, No 2464/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u203	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Nathalie Muylle, Sonja Becq and Els Van Hoof) on reimbursement of first-line psychological care, No 2466/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u204	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u205	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u206	Mr President, I have a vote with Mr De Roover. This applies to all subsequent votes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u207	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 82 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2137/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2137/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u208	Vote on Amendment No 21 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an article 5/1(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an Article 5/1(n). (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Jadin voted against. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 5/1(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Marco Van Hees to insert an Article 5/1(n). (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 31 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u209	Mr President, my vote has not been taken into account. I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u210	Of which act. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 5/1(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Marco Van Hees to insert an Article 5/1(n). (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[14]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr Devin voted like his group. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an article 5/2(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an Article 5/2(n). (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 23 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an article 5/3(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an Article 5/3(n). (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[22]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 24 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an article 5/4(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an Article 5/4(n). (2369/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u211	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Muriel Gerkens cs on Article 6. (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Muriel Gerkens cs to Article 6. (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 15 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 6/1(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 6/1(n). (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 23 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 6/2(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 6/2(n). (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs de Coster-Bauchau voted against. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an article 6/3(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an Article 6/3(n). (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 36 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an article 6/4(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an Article 6/4(n). (2369/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u212	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 6/5(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 6/5(n). (2369/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Fernandez Fernandez voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 6/6(n). (2369/5) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 6/6(n). (2369/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u213	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u214	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 79 Yes No. [[16]] No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2369/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2369/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 81 Yes No. [[21]] No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2412/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2412/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u216	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 90 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 43 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1610/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1610/10) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u217	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2004/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (2004/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u218	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2385/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (2385/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Özen and Mr Demeyer voted in favour. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u219	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[120]] Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2379/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2379/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u220	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2406/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2406/4) Mrs Lanjri voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u221	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u222	Mr President, I wanted to know whether I could explain this proposal, my faith, very sympathetic to Mr Lutgen but which, in the results, will be completely ineffective for the objectives he wishes to achieve. I wanted to confirm that, of course, we support the coverage of both mobile and fixed telephones in rural areas, but that this proposal makes it completely impossible to do so. It is therefore a political opportunism of Mr Lutgen who has just tried to show that he is the only defender of rural life, while Mr Clarinval and I have tabled other bills, in particular last week, on rural transport, and that we have not been supported. It's a shame to get there! Mr Lutgen will be able to come and discuss in committee shortly on other interesting rural issues which the MR has always defended and will continue to defend.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u223	Mr Foret, I can understand you taking this for inefficiency. We are talking about freedom, access to the internet and mobile phone, and above all equality. Equality is not something that resonates in your ears, nor in those of the MR in general. I can understand that equality and efficiency are two terms that don't go with you; but it's no big deal. The main thing is to vote in a few moments to make a universal service. A few decades ago, in our country, it was possible to install fixed telephones, to bring telephone booths all over our neighbourhoods, to our villages. I propose nothing but this here. If you find that a universal service is something inefficient, vote against it, but stop saying in the villages and neighbourhoods that you will try to do something to bring internet and mobile phone. Consider the self-employed, the traders, all the actors, the young people in rural areas and disadvantaged areas, in the neighbourhoods, and all those who are trying to find a job. Stop telling them they have to find a job without having access to the internet! It's no longer possible! Stop telling them that they must turn to education and training without having access to the Internet! You know very well that this is not possible! Stop your double speech or take your responsibilities in a few moments by attaching all your words to a positive gesture. I'll give you a hand. Make sure you take it. It is the hand of those who must come together to support every citizen, but you prefer to have the hand of your neighbour who comes to push you on the wrong button. It's your choice, and it's a shame for you. This is especially a pity for all the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u224	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 78 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1604/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1604/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u225	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (2429/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (2429/2) Aantal stemmen 124 Number of voters Valid votes 123 Votes valables Perfect majority 62 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of four parts (A, B, C and D) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into four parts (A, B, C and D) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u226	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u227	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u228	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u229	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u230	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u231	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 128 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u232	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 123 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u233	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 127 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u234	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 130 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part D). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part D). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u235	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-11-54-plenair-ip168x.u236	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 18 May 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 18 May 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 May 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 18 May 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
