ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u1	Mr President, Minister, for repatriations with special flights, certain items are made available, including police vehicles to transfer the persons to the place where the special flight departs. On the basis of these data, I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Which police vehicles are made available for this purpose? Are we talking about vehicles that have been written off by the police? For what reasons were these vehicles possibly written off? On average, how old are the vehicles made available for the transfer of persons to special flights? Who is responsible for the monitoring and maintenance of those available police vehicles? A report by the AIG on a special flight on 17 April 2012 shows that the safety of the occupants and other road users was at risk from the state in which the police vehicle was at that time. Do you know of any similar incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u2	Mr President, Mr Demon, at your first question, for the execution of the assignments, not only for the special flights, the Brunat section, the Brussels Air Force National Police, which is responsible for disposal, has 11 vehicles, namely 7 Volkswagen Crafter, 3 Mercedes Sprinter and 1 bus. They are specific vehicles and certainly not vehicles that were written off by the police. These vehicles have been specifically purchased for cell removals. To your second question I can answer that the vehicles VW Crafter were purchased and delivered in 2011 and 2012. On average, they have travelled around 42 000 kilometres. The Mercedes Sprinter vehicles date from 2009 and have travelled an average of 19 000 kilometres. The bus is also quite recent, as it was purchased through European subsidies in 2014 and delivered in 2015. I come to your third question. For the vehicles VW Crafter is provided for a maintenance contract with the supplier, i.e. with Volkswagen. The maintenance of the bus shall be carried out by the supplier of the vehicle. For the vehicles Mercedes Sprinter is provided for maintenance by the federal police themselves. On your fourth question, I know of one incident involving a vehicle. This involved the old bus, which was at that time used for the transfer to a German airport. This bus was replaced in 2015. I don't know about any other incidents. Given the number of kilometres at the airport itself and given the permanent maintenance contract, I believe that this vehicle fleet is still in perfect condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u3	Mr Minister, I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u4	Minister, aggression in the workplace is not an illusion; it is a social phenomenon that we can no longer escape. The number of cases of aggression in the workplace has been increasing for several years. Also the so-called parking guards, who check on paying parking on the public road, do not escape this trend and are increasingly confronted with aggression. This is evident from numerous newspaper articles that report about the blames, the beatings and possible injuries that parking guards experience while performing their job. One parking guard isn't the other. In our country, municipal authorities have the freedom to employ their own staff for the control of paying parking in their municipality. In addition, they may rely on a parking management company as a concessionaire or on an authorised and licensed surveillance company. In accordance with the law on private security, those surveillance companies can only use screened and trained personnel to carry out parking checks. Surveillance agents employed by surveillance firms shall undergo a security screening to ensure that they comply with the desired profile. When they pass that screening, they will receive more than 150 hours of training to carry out parking checks. In this way, surveillance companies can not only ensure that the findings made are of good quality, but also that the security agents on the ground are trained to deal with verbal and physical aggression. Although they carry out the same tasks, the staff of the parking management companies are not bound by similar legal obligations. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. How many incidents of aggression against employees of parking management companies occurred in 2016? Do you have any figures of that? Were those incidents reported by the parking management companies to the competent police forces? Do you envisage initiatives to include the staff of the parking management companies in training in aggression management? Could such training also be made compulsory for such staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u5	Mr Demon, the ANG, the General National Data Database of the police, is a police database in which facts are recorded on the basis of minutes resulting from the missions of the judicial and administrative police. It allows to carry out counts on different statistical variables such as: the number of recorded facts, the modus operandi, the objects used in the crime, the means of transport used, destinations, places, etc. Specifically as regards your questions on aggression against employees of parking companies, I must inform you that the ANG does not have the necessary data to provide an answer to this question. On the basis of the information contained in the ANG, it is not possible to provide reliable victim data. The Law of 18 March 2014 on Police Information Management and amending the Law of 5 August 1992 on Police Office, the Law of 8 December 1992 on Privacy Protection in relation to the processing of personal data and the Code of Criminal Procedure, does reform the rules of police information management and allows this extension to victims. This requires the necessary expertise, functional analysis and technical adjustments. Consequently, this also requires time and capacity. The work aimed at adding victims to the ANG is part of the priorities of both functional and technical development teams for the first semester of 2017. I cannot give the data now, but we are adapting the database to the extent that the data will become available. The reporting of victim information also naturally depends on this. The additional information relating to the victims will therefore not be recorded until the date of implementation of the technical adjustments. As far as your third and fourth questions are concerned, as you point out, municipal authorities in our country have the freedom to use their own staff, a parking management company as concessionaires, or an authorised and licensed surveillance company for the purpose of controlling paying parking in a municipality. The last category is subject to strict conditions under the 1990 Act on private security. The draft law on private security, which I will be proposing here in a few weeks' time, will also continue to impose strict conditions. As I have already announced, this bill will tighten up the screening of security officers. When a city or municipality opts to employ its own staff or a parking company as concessionaire, which is not covered by the law on private security, it is up to the city or municipality to impose the conditions, such as training in aggression management. If a private security company is called upon to do so, it is subject to that law. If one chooses other roads which are legally permitted, one has to cover oneself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u6	Minister, I think that is exactly what this is about. The people who act on behalf of these parking companies in some cities and municipalities are in contact with aggression. That's the same aggression that private security agents come into contact with. My question is therefore very specific. Are you prepared to register that obligation in the law you are drafting also for people from those parking companies, in their own interest? Much also has to do with the way fines are collected. In this respect, too, there are differences between parking companies and private companies. My vision is that a parking management company should also offer the same training to its staff. That can be registered in that law. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u7	I do not want to get out of the discussion, but I want to get into it. I certainly won't put that in the law. We've got to do some pure... shit. A parking company is not a security company and therefore the legislation on it is also different. I am prepared to consider how we can deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u8	I've seen statistics from 2014 on people dealing with verbal and physical aggression. This clearly showed that it was better for people with training than for people without training. I am pleased that you say that you want to see whether people from parking management companies can also be given such training in their own interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u9	Minister, the continuing threat of terrorism, the asylum crisis and the difficult working conditions are weighing on the police, especially the local police. It's a vicious circle. The federal police are increasingly calling in the help of local corps, who, in turn, rightly complain about a lack of manpower. Not all zones are equally willing. That is why you decided to introduce sanctions. A few weeks ago, at a meeting of the Coordination Body of the Integrated Police, a decision was taken to tighten up the ministerial directive governing solidarity between the corpses. A sanction mechanism is provided for through the withdrawal from the federal system. In concrete terms, if, after examination, the General Inspection finds that a zone has refused to contribute to the HyCap system on an unjustified basis, an amount shall be deducted. At the end of the year, the total amount withheld shall be divided among those areas which show solidarity. Mr President, first of all, what is an unjustified basis? How is that judged? Secondly, who will investigate that? Is there enough staff for that? Thirdly, what sum will be withheld if that penalty is imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u10	Mr Top, it has never been my intention to unilaterally entangle the current HyCap system. As you said yourself, we have seen that the system in its present form and when the entire police organisation comes under pressure has its limits. I think we've been looking at the limits lately. That's why I've asked the local and federal police officers to work out a modified arrangement. So that's in conjunction with the local federal police. The target is a balanced and justified mobilisation model, based on solidarity, differentiated according to the strength of the zones and with built-in levers and guarantees to have the necessary police capacity at all times and everywhere. In addition, I would like to see a rewarding and stimulating solidarity mechanism for the good students and a credible, enforceable and negotiated sanction mechanism for the hard learners. We must not lose sight of the fact that at the time the legislator opted for a mandatory nature, for which the federal government, moreover, issued annual donations for the benefit of the local police. The practice and investigations of the AIG have already shown that certain refusals of local police areas are not justified and are actually inadmissible. They undermine the balance and sense of justice in the integrated police. However, we have recalibrated the HyCap system, in the sense that we are once again closer to the original intention, a solidarity mechanism between the local zones and much less a solidarity mechanism between federal and local police. Only in certain exceptional cases does solidarity between the federal and local police be called upon, namely in the event of major events involving a national challenge. If we check where the system has come under pressure, that's where too much HyCap had to be delivered to the federal level. The precise contours and the implementation of the sanction mechanism still need to be defined. I cannot give further details on this at this stage. The police working group is currently finalising the drafting of a new draft directive, which will be submitted to me in the near future. He has already tested with me how solidarity between the zones is intended, whether a rewarding and stimulating solidarity mechanism can be set up, and also how to act against hard learners. The details, the modalities, I will be getting in the near future and I will certainly be sharing them with the committee; there is no problem in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u11	Thank you for the brief clarification. I understand that the contours and principles have not yet been established. Therefore, what constitutes an unjustified basis and how it will be implemented will still be presented. It is clear that the facts of the past year and external circumstances have increased the pressure on local areas and the pressure between local and federal police. I am pleased that you wish to return to the original principle of the HyCap system. However, that alone will not remove the pressure. You will also have to deal with staff shortages in the federal police, for example, so that the federal police can be satisfied in future. I look forward to your proposal in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u12	Mr President, Minister, last February I asked the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr Franken, about the repatriation of a terrorist suspect to Baghdad. Indeed, the man reportedly had contacts with suspected terrorists in Germany and he was forcibly returned from Belgium to Iraq. Mr Franken replied that "this question does not fall within my competence or that of the Foreign Office and must be asked to the Ministers of Justice and the Interior." That's what I do. Mr Minister, are consultations with the countries concerned planned in such cases? In this case, have the German authorities been contacted? Did they give their approval before the expulsion? Can you confirm that the necessary investigations into the existence of possible terrorist networks in the European Union and Belgium were carried out before the expulsion? We are obviously concerned, like you, about national security and that of all our fellow citizens, but in view of the elements advanced in the press, we are talking about someone who has had contact with suspicious people. Who determines and controls the fact that an individual actually poses a threat to national security? At the same time, our country now has a whole range of judicial instruments to combat terrorism, but it is ultimately the expulsion option that has been retained here. How is the final decision made in such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u13	Mr Kir, as far as the first general question is concerned, it was not asked of my colleague Theo Francken, although it falls within his competence. On the second question, my colleague replied that he did not report on individual cases. With regard to your second question, what was to be done before the expulsion of the person concerned was carried out. The current investigation does not require the presence of the person in question. With respect to your third question, this information is part of the secrecy of the investigation. This is a common responsibility at the level of the judiciary and the local task force. The threat is always assessed first and foremost by the OCAM. Finally, a distinction must be made between administrative proceedings at the level of expulsion and judicial proceedings as such. Expulsion is not necessarily considered to be a result of judicial proceedings. Judicial proceedings fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u14	Mr Minister, when you spoke about the first question concerning Mr Franken, were you thinking about consultation with Germany? This question therefore falls within the competence of Mr Franken. For the rest, I thank you for the answers you provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u15	Mr President, Minister, you announced a little more than a year ago the deployment of an additional EUR 400 million for the federal police to strengthen security and better combat terrorism. In the light of the union grudge and the elements of the last report of the Federal Police Steering Committee, it is clear that the situation is difficult. On the ground, police officers see no results despite the €400 million promised. Worse still, for the unions, all the visionaries are red. They saw several federal police directors leaving the ship. They see that the promised recruitments are not carried out. They see a lack of material resources and, above all, they note that annual cuts of 2% remain valid despite difficult working conditions. Even the Commissioner General recently emerged from the woods, believing that the federal police would not have received additional capacity to implement the National Security Plan (NSP) and that full implementation of the National Security Plan would not be guaranteed. In addition, it suggested that the focus on combating terrorism was at the expense of other tasks such as combating drugs, social and fiscal fraud, violent crime - domestic violence, sexual abuse of minors -, incivilities, illegal migration, improved road safety, etc. In the current state of affairs, the four unions announce that they could tighten the tone very soon if the situation does not change. Besides, no later than yesterday, the federal police were on strike in Mons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u17	Yes, but, as I explain, there is a global grunt. Minister, what do you say to reassure them? Do you confirm the 2% budget cut in operating and personnel expenditures? How are the additional €400 million you announced over a year ago actually being used? In summary, I would ask you today to take stock of the use of the EUR 400 million, as I asked you, a few months ago in plenary, on topical issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u18	Mr Thiébaut, I met the four unions last Friday. After this meeting, we held a consultation on Friday afternoon. Then they suspended their notice of strike. They are waiting for budgetary control, which is under way, to decide. As far as the cut-off is concerned, I cannot say anything to you because it is part of budgetary control. I am doing my utmost to provide the necessary operational resources to the police. I will answer you after budgetary control. Secondly, various projects have been launched and are being implemented by the Federal Police: the Canal Plan, the Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR), the DGG, the DSU, the Foreign Fighters, recruitment, iPolice, border control, the DGA, the airport police (LPA) and the CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear). All these projects are included in the interdepartmental provisions provided for in these 400 million. These projects are spread over the period 2016-2019. During this period, the federal police can rely on the interdepartmental provision of terrorism and radicalization. We have always said that the 400 million were not just for the police. In 2015, the $200 million was distributed in the departments concerned in the fight against terrorism. Much of it was reserved for the police. In 2016, 51.999 million was committed for all projects, including 13.8 million for staff expenditure and 38 million for operating and investment expenditure. In 2017, a large number of credits were allocated to the federal police. As far as commitments are concerned, as I have already said here, in 2016 we fulfilled our commitment to recruitment. We said we would recruit 1,600 people in 2016; 1450 people were recruited, plus 150 people who give notice to their current employer. In 2017, it is planned to hire 400 people and I am this month after month in order to achieve this. I invite you to visit the police schools. You'll see they're full of recruits in training. In 2016, 218 (?) Members of staff have already been structurally funded from the interdepartmental provision of terrorism and radicalization. In addition, last year, 634 aspiring candidates were specifically committed to the various projects related to the fight against terrorism and radicalism. We said that, during the period 2016-2018, we would increase the net number of federal police by 1,200 units. When I say that I recruited 1,600 people in 2016, it is not only to reach that number of 1,200, but also to replace pensioners and fill vacancies. So 218 (?) are already in the field and 634 are in training. The setting up of these aspirants takes time because they must first follow their training. In 2016 we made sure to temporarily fill 135 places in the framework of the Canal Plan with detachments, waiting for the end of the training of aspirants. This was a problem in the Canal Plan, as Mr Kir knows well. I couldn't guarantee that the same police officers would stay because of the mobility system. I made a commitment that those who leave school at the end of April will be assigned to the Canal Plan as early as May 1 and will remain there for three years. They will not be able to use the mobility system during these three years. It was something complicated to deal with because people were coming and going, but as of May 1st, this problem will be solved. Mr President, the question tabled was not as detailed as it was today. But I am willing to give and analyze all the figures in detail for the various projects that concern the police. Since these are public means, Parliament has the right to consult them and to have all the necessary explanations. I have nothing to hide.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u19	Minister, I think that is a good suggestion. The President-in-Office is not here, but we can tell him about your proposal to come and make a statement on the state and use of the EUR 400 million in more detail. A year after the attacks of 22 March 2016, I do believe that it is not a bad idea to suggest it. You have answered in great detail the second part of my question concerning the EUR 400 million. With regard to the first part concerning the possible non-indexation of 2% of the budget, you replied that it would be necessary to wait for budgetary control. You also said that the unions had suspended their notice of strike. However, as I told you yesterday, the federal police in Mons were striking, according to my information, because of the reduction in its budgetary resources. Clearly, not all strike notices were suspended, contrary to what was announced. Maybe you'll tell me it's for other reasons. As long as I have you in my hand, Minister, can you enlighten me on this situation raised in Mons by the unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u20	No, I can't because that wasn't the subject of your question, but if you put a new question, I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u21	I'd have tried.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u22	You're right. There are always hard knots. Mr. Di Rupo once called me "the hard of the hard". I think there must be some in the trade union world as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u23	Mr President, Minister, that is little to say that your plan to reduce the number of technical and scientific police laboratories from fourteen to five for Belgium as a whole raises enormous concerns among the staff concerned. If I take the example of the officers of the Federal Judicial Police in Mons-Tournai, it is the misunderstanding and fear that prevails. They are already experiencing a complicated situation due to a chronic disinvestment of their service, both in personnel and equipment. Thus, only 17 people work in the Mons-Tournai laboratory, so the framework provides for 34 people, almost double the number. Therefore, when you say that, I quote, "for a country with a small area, such as Belgium, it goes without saying that an organisation made up of five accredited laboratories is realistic for the performance of these tasks", it goes wrong. With your project, there is a real risk that the response times will increase and affect the quality of the investigators' work. In their opinion delivered last year, the King's Council of Prosecutors, followed by the College of Attorneys General, is not wrong: they want at least one laboratory per federal judicial police, i.e. at least 14 laboratories for the country. "It's essential," they say, "for the work of both the police and the justice system." Therefore, Minister, these are my questions. What is the real objective of your project? Is it not likely to further deteriorate a service for citizens and the work of investigators on the ground? What would be the added value of reducing the number of labs? Why did you not take into account the opinion of the College of Attorneys General and the King's Council of Prosecutors? What answer do you give to the agents concerned who fear for their future and their working conditions? Is the maintenance of 14 laboratories still under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u24	Mr Thiébaut, this project of accreditation of technical and scientific police laboratories is above all a response to the European Union Framework Note 2009/905/JHA, which aims, among other things, at the exchange of fingerprint data between European countries. At Belgian level, our ambition is to take advantage of this European obligation to improve the functioning of the police, the quality, speed and reliability of the missions and activities carried out and, de facto, the service offered and rendered to the public. When you talk about reducing the number of laboratories, these are back office sites that will continue to perform intra-mural fingerprint analyses according to national standards with trained and available staff, adequate equipment and modern infrastructure. The practical arrangements for implementing this decision are currently under consideration. However, depending on the local policy of the judicial authorities in each district, the budgetary and other considerations related to the current infrastructure, it is not impossible for some of the 25 sites still in operation to close in the short or medium term. This has already been the case in 2015 and 2016 for the sites of Hasselt, Malines and Arlon. Secondly, as already mentioned in my answer to question No 16636 by Mr.Gilles Vanden Burre, this decision was taken in full consultation with my honourable colleague, the Minister of Justice. We have, of course, taken note of the views of the partners who have expressed themselves in this matter, including the College of Attorneys General and the King's Council of Prosecutors, while bearing in mind our commitment to improving quality processes in forensic police laboratories and to obtaining the accreditation required by Europe. Accrediting five sites is a good realistic compromise between this much sought-after quality and the means necessary to meet the requirements of ISO 17025. For your third question, these modalities will, of course, address the management of human resources and the correct use of logistical and information technology resources, infrastructure and budget. There is no question of reducing the current capacity of the criminal police. On the contrary! As for the working conditions of forensic investigators, if we compare the objective pursued (the situation to be) with the current situation (as it is) on many sites, I can tell you that their improvement will be well on the agenda in the coming months and years. In short, Mr Geens and I agree to accredit the five back office sites. We are still studying the front offices. I'm gonna be very honest about that. It is certain that we will not keep the twenty-three laboratories, but that does not mean that we will only keep five back offices. The study is about to be completed. In this way, we can make a decision. In the meantime, the question remains open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u25	Minister, I am very pleased with your answer, because it is a real answer. In fact, half an hour ago, I was asking your colleague from Justice about the same subject. He absolutely swept me away without telling me anything very concrete. He only told me that the number of labs would be reduced to meet a European quality requirement. This response was very unsatisfactory. Indeed, I could reply to him and to you that, if the level of demand is higher, then we must commit the means everywhere in order to meet these criteria, not reduce the number of labs. Here you're telling me that we'd still be considering five more specialized offices, with antennas anyway, so that people can go to the field and get fingerprints, DNA traces, and that kind of thing. Individuals could continue to work as part of the scientific police and send samples to five more specialized laboratories. Do I understand correctly? Yes! The number is not yet decided. It still reminds me of another story, in which civil protection was involved. I hope you and your colleagues decide a little faster. It's a little stone in your garden. Thank you in any case for the clarity of your explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u26	Mr President, Minister, following the latest state reform which has given the regional authorities new powers, the Brussels government has finally approved its regional security and prevention plan. This was also noted this morning at the Western Brussels Security Council. At the same time, the UNDAF and the national plan were noted. These are obviously valuable and important documents. My questions relate to the coordination of this set. Minister, what have been the collaborations between federal departments and the regional authority in the development of the regional plan? What are the common lines of action in the fight against radicalisation provided for in the regional plan and the R plan? What cooperation is, or will it be, planned between the federal and regional authorities as part of the ANPR camera network? Is the Computer Crime Unit requested to provide its expertise to regional services and to ensure that objectives are shared? At the level of the installation of the information and communication centre 101, what processes and operating mechanisms have been defined between the federal and regional authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u27	Mr Pivin, the services of the coordinating director of the Brussels Federal Police were consulted during the preparation of the overall safety and prevention plan for the Brussels-Capital Region. More specifically, they were involved in the preparatory meetings. The policy support service of the DCA Brussels has been involved in several working groups for the creation of crime images and the joint drafting of preparatory documents with other external partners and the public interest body Brussels Prevention & Security. In addition, I would like to point out that the Brussels-Capital Region has been actively involved in the preparation of the comprehensive security framework note and has been able to give its opinion on the national security plan. These two documents were validated in the Interministerial Conference of 7 June 2016 in which the Minister-President of the Brussels-Capital Region participated. As a result, the Region used these two documents in terms of content and methodology to develop its regional security plan. In addition, Article 37a of the Integrated Police Act provides that: "With a view to ensuring an integrated urban security policy in the territory of the administrative district of Brussels-Capital, a regional security plan shall be drawn up by the Brussels agglomeration, prior to the adoption of the zonal security plans for the areas of the arrondissement and taking into account the national security plan." This linkage between the National Security Plan (NSP) and the Regional Security Plan (RSP) was respected. Since a joint is made between the NCSI, the PNS and the PRS, several measures and reactions are planned and coordinated together. I invite you to consult the plans. By way of example, the Radicalism Taskforce in the Brussels Region was set up and led by the Brussels Director-Coordinator and attended by all the partners involved in the phenomenon. It meets regularly with the aim of considering and coordinating the various actions. A collaboration protocol has been drawn up between the Brussels PJF and the regional authority in the context of the Canal Plan to support police areas and to provide expertise on cybercrime focus. It is obvious that I would like to mention the Canal Plan in which the Brussels-Capital Region and the municipalities concerned are actively involved. As you know, the federal project on the federal-funded ANPR camera network aims to establish a national ANPR back office, i.e. a central management system linked to a national ANPR data bank. Cooperation between the federal and regional levels is at both the strategic and the technical and operational levels. For example, the federal police data centre where the national ANPR back office is housed will be connected to the fibre optic network of the Regions. For the Brussels-Capital Region, it is the IRIS network. These fibre optic networks are used preferentially for connecting camera sites to the national back office. This is also the case with the aim of providing police areas with affordable solutions for applications from the federal police data centre that require high bandwidth, such as streaming video. The national ANPR back office is intended to transmit in real time, to all Regions, ANPR readings made anonymous of the registration plates as part of their road traffic management functions. Police areas will benefit from all ANPR applications of the national back office through the integrated police intranet network. It should be noted that the use of fibre optic networks for the police, on the one hand, and the transmission of anonymous data, on the other, are the subject of a draft protocol to be negotiated by the federal level with the Regions in the coming months. Finally, the federal level hopes – there is no commitment to this until now – that the Brussels-Capital Region will be willing to connect its ANPR network to the national ANPR back office and thus to the national ANPR camera network. The Information and Communication Centres 111 are part of the Coordination and Support Directorates, specifically the District Information and Communication Service (SICA). In the course of 2017, a Royal Decree on SICA will be issued. This royal decree will further clarify the functionality and operation of the SICAs, in general, and of the information and communication centres 111, in particular. The text of the Royal Decree was discussed in close collaboration with the Standing Committee on Local Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u29	Mr President, Minister, this is a less topical subject, but it remains a question. I have already asked you several times about the police reinforcements that you have decided in the context of the flow of migrants in transit in France, at the Franco-Belgian border and at the outskirts of our port areas, to the United Kingdom, as part of the dismantling of what was called "the jungle of Calais". Specific measures have been taken within the framework of the Medusa Plan, but it has appeared that, since this dismantling, migrants from this area, as well as new "transmigrants" without a point of arrival on the continent near England as a result of this dismantling, would be on Belgian territory and precisely in the vicinity of the Northern Railway Station. The NGO Médecins du Monde commented on this a few weeks ago, stating that "more than two hundred people were in transit near this station and the Midi station." Do you confirm that migrants or some refugee candidates are present in the vicinity of the Gare du Nord and that their presence is still increasing today? Do you confirm that these refugees are the result of the dismantling of the Calais perimeter? Finally, have security measures been taken in this area, in collaboration, I suppose, with the Secretary of State for Migration?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u30	Mr President, information obtained from the Brussels-North Police Area (POLBRUNO) shows that there is still a presence of refugees in the Nord station in Brussels during the day and evening. As soon as the gates of the station close, at 01.00 in the morning, these persons are requested to leave the station by the in-house guard service. According to the findings of the police zone, some 30 people remain outside the station at the end of this process. To answer your second question, I can tell you that, although some refugees at the Gare du Nord state that they resided in the jungle of Calais, the information available to the police zone does not allow it to confirm that these refugees come from this area. On January 30, 2017, the police area carried out a major police operation aimed at calling and identifying all persons sleeping outside the station after its closure. 86 persons were identified on that occasion. Employees of the Aliens Office were present in the field. Of these, 39 persons were released by an order to leave the territory, 4 were placed in the centre for repatriation and 43 were released without any special measures. Since the execution of this operation, the police zone has maintained very frequent passages as soon as the station is closed, in order to prevent refugees from settling in the vicinity of the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u32	Mr President, Minister, our various national security plans have, among their priorities, the fight against violence against women. It is a phenomenon that is constantly spreading, especially in the big cities of our country. This is, of course, regrettable, especially since it seems that there is an increasing number of facts each year. That concern must therefore be taken seriously. Minister, how many incidents of sexual verbal and physical assault against women were recorded by the federal and local public prosecutor's office and police services in 2014, 2015 and 2016? What awareness-raising activities have been carried out by your police services? What specific actions have been taken recently by the police in the fight against this type of aggression? Finally, what are the collaborations between the police and the prosecutor's office to ensure that the facts are systematically punished when they are proven and recorded?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u33	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the information on verbal and physical assaults with sexual connotations is not repeated as such in the BNG. The following table, which I can provide to you, shows the number of facts recorded by the police in relation to physical, sexual and psychological violence in the public space, as recorded in the BNG on the basis of the minutes for 2014, 2015 and the first quarter of 2016 at national level. These data are from the data bank dated 20 July 2016. All figures on physical, sexual and psychological violence are available and are divided into four categories: public transport, public roads, other public places, places accessible to the public. To give you an order of magnitude, there were approximately 40,000 cases of physical violence in 2014, 4,000 cases of sexual violence and 30,000 cases of mental violence. It is also possible to report the number of registered violations of the Act of 22 May 2014 to combat sexism in the public space and to amend the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men, in order to penalise the act of discrimination. Seven infringements were registered in the first quarter of 2016. In 2015, 18 incidents were recorded in relation to discrimination on the basis of sex. It should be noted, moreover, that the code does only exist since 2015 in the police nomenclature. With regard to victims, in this case women, on the basis of the information presented in the BNG, it is not possible to transmit reliable data. This is because BNG is also a relational database made up of several entities. If these entities are not planned, it is difficult to report. The law of 18 March 2014 on the management of operational police information and amending the law of 5 August 1992 on the police function, the law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data and the code of criminal investigation reform the rules on the management of police information by allowing this extension to victims. This change requires expertise, functional analysis. To make it short, the work is not finished yet. It should be before the summer of 2017. Additional information relating to victims will only be recorded from the date of implementation of the technical adaptations. The National Security Plan provides for various initiatives for a professional police approach to this type of incident. Some have already been achieved. The Mors manual has been distributed, in digital form, to all integrated police services, both at the bottom-up and top-down levels. The document is available on the police intranet. In 2016, approximately 900 police officers and magistrates continued their training "Quality survey in moral cases". Other initiatives are being taken to invest in quality hearings of victims of moral events and in systems to search for links between moral records such as ViCLAS and the production of author profiles by behavioural analysts. As far as your last question is concerned, it falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u34	Minister, thank you. I will, of course, look carefully at the tables that you have given me before I learn anything from them. In any case, I note that the figures are well on the rise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u35	Minister, since 2016 a pilot project has been carried out for the direct recruitment of police personnel in Antwerp. It would cover a period of two years. We're halfway. It appears that a number of areas would be willing to implement a similar recruitment process. I've already been able to question you about this. This issue is all the more interesting as in the Brussels Region, a difficulty has been proven for many years to recruit operational police personnel for the six areas. Brussels recruitment remains a real challenge in the face of too many short periods of police service in Brussels, before a legitimate but disturbing departure to an area outside the regional territory. Just now I heard you, quite rightly, say that you had to go to police schools to see how many people are undergoing training. That is correct, but before that, what is not waste? I do not say this in a pejorative way, but what is not failures? We are still talking about a success rate of Brussels candidates in the various selection tests that does not exceed 7%, which is terribly challenging. This explains, of course, that less than 10% of the Brussels workforce is made up of Brussels police officers. Could you therefore indicate whether an evaluation has already been carried out, even as an interim measure, of the experience carried out in Antwerp? Is the success rate in training and selection tests better or similar to that of us? What is the percentage of candidates from Antwerp? Is it true that you have already received several requests for direct recruitment procedures from other parts of the country, particularly in the Brussels Region? Could you indicate the elements of the response you have provided in the follow-up to these requests, specifying the legal, technical and financial aspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u36	Mr Pivin, with regard to your first and third questions, I refer to the presentation that was given in committee on 7 February last by the recruitment and selection management and the local police in Antwerp in order to explain the pilot project and its first results. This presentation follows the main lines of the project, its intermediate results and the scenarios and modalities for extending the project to other police areas. With regard to the modalities for the enlargement of this project, I would refer you to this presentation. All aspects and conditions for such a project to be completed are in the final stages. Some aspects are still under consideration, including budgetary aspects. The file should be finalized by early May, so that it can respond fully and accurately to the applicant units so that they can decide whether or not to engage with full knowledge. You may request this presentation from the secretariat of the commission. We have identified three ways to conduct a recruitment project. The Antwerp project is called The Full Monty. The Antwerp police have made an investment on their side and each police area or a regrouping of the areas can do the same. Between the way in which the Antwerp area recruits locally, with the support of the DRI of the Federal Police, and the old method of recruitment, we will define an intermediate, less expensive possibility that will allow us to take advantage of certain advantages of the Antwerp experience. The three options will therefore be offered: recruitment as applied for years, recruitment as practiced by the Federal Police of Antwerp, an intermediate formula being developed and easier. As far as your second question is concerned, several police areas have sent a request by mail, including Brussels Capital - Ixelles. An information session was organised on 24 January 2017 by the Antwerp police area to present the selection project and its intermediate results. The Federal Police also explained the possibilities for the expansion of this project. Thus, the areas that have shown interest could be informed almost as we have just done here. Almost half of the areas were represented, including Brussels Capital - Ixelles. I know that the Brussels Region is also interested in the project. In March or April, a similar session will be organised for police areas in Brussels and Wallonia. The Brussels-Capital Region and the six Brussels police areas are likely to be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u37	Minister, thank you. I was not at this committee meeting in early February. It doesn't ring a bell, but I'll document myself. We are indeed asked by various committees, which are often held simultaneously.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u38	This is the last one, because the same question has, I think, been written twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u39	I don't know. The numbers are different: 17103 and 17105, but with the same title. We'll see if the content is different.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u40	That's the same question. Anyway, I don't have any more here. I'm not going to improvise and look for another one! A few weeks ago, there was an echo in the press of trainings aimed at sensitizing our police officers to the Islamic religion. It is obviously important and necessary for all our Belgian police officers to be made aware of the various concerns on the ground, which have a certain impact on social life in large cities or elsewhere, but it has been said that this is not unanimous. However, I have heard many thoughts in the committee of inquiry on the follow-up to the attacks, which said that such specialists could be very valuable at certain times. I wanted to hear from you about that. On what basis have these training modules been established and by whom? When was an evaluation by the Federal Police issued for these trainings and under what procedure? Is there an evaluation of these courses where they already exist? There were similar examples about 20 years ago in the Brussels Region. Maybe we've been inspired by it. I don't know. Finally, according to what criteria have the training modules been decided for Brussels police officers? In other words, why is this not suggested in Hainaut or Liège for example? Has the training already started? If so, how many police officers have ever followed her where she exists?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u41	Mr Pivin, there are several training courses on the subject you are talking about, each with its own origins and objectives. The diversity training "My Islam, my citizenship" has thus been developed by the Polbruno area to help its members understand diversity, and is part of a broader vision of knowledge of the multicultural environment of the citizens of these communes. It is integrated into the activities of the network "internal diversity bruno@ttitude", within the framework of the internal collaboration of the federal police, and external, with Fedasil and the Centre for Equal Opportunities etc. The "Tough Questions on Islam and Islamism" training is a response to the annual survey of the needs of local police areas in the province of Antwerp. It was developed in collaboration with the Centre for Expertise and Advice on Prevention and Intervention in Radicalism and Extremism in a Prevention Approach. The formation "Introduction and approach to jihadism and radical Islamism", also developed by this centre, complements the previous formation. In both cases, the Community Policing Preventing Radicalization and Terrorism (COPPRA) training is a prerequisite. The "Introduction to Islam" training was developed in 2007 at the initiative of the deconcentrated judicial directorates of Bruges, Courtrai, Ypres and Furnes and aims to give a view of the main concepts of Islam. Finally, the training "Terrorism and radical Islamism" is intended for police officers working in the judicial field only outside it and is intended to give them the elements of understanding the complexity of the phenomenon. Each of these courses is evaluated individually as part of the offer of each school that organizes it. Participants are generally invited to express their interest and views on the usefulness of the training. With the exception of the first training, organized specifically for the needs of a police zone, the others are open to all members of the integrated police – police and civilians – with the consent of their superiors. Sessions of these trainings have been organised and/or are still planned this year in the police schools of the provinces of Antwerp, Flemish Brabant and Limburg, as well as in the schools of Brussels and the National Police Academy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u42	I thank the minister for all his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u43	Question No 17105 by Mr Pivin is irrelevant, since it is a duplicate of question No 17103. Mr Top is in the room next door, he will be here soon. Mr Demon, you have a question that has been combined with a question from Mr Vanvelthoven, but it is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u44	Mr President, I have no problem with Mr Demon's questions being dealt with first. My question was apparently a somewhat complicated one. Mr Top is not here at the moment. I have asked a question which seems not to be on the agenda, while Mr Werner Janssen Janssen is mentioned as the questioner instead of Janssens. I asked him, even though he, as a Limburger Brabant, is important, he did not ask a question about this. To sum up, let us wait for Mr Top and then we can ask the question together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u45	Mr Top has been informed. Mr Janssens, I will be very happy to give you the floor later, because you are the right questioner and not the person who is wrong on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u46	Mr President, the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007 establishing the orders of the emergency services that can be recovered and those who are free of charge lays down the tasks for which the emergency services can charge costs. Last year certain municipalities were hit by a wind storm that caused a lot of damage. Due to the many calls the fire department could not answer all the questions and the help of civil protection was called in. Now it appears that for the same tasks, for example the temporary closure of a roof, the fire department did not send an invoice, but civil protection did. It doesn't make sense for people not to be treated equally for carrying out the same task. So I have a few questions. Does civil protection, like the fire department, communicate in advance that an invoice will be charged for the task they come to perform, in this case temporarily closing a roof? Can civil protection ask the citizen directly for a fee or is it up to the relief zone to do so? How come relief services don't bill in the same way? Are you prepared to review the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007? What solutions do you see for those who received a high bill from civil protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u47	Mr President, Mr Demon, civil protection does not actively communicate in advance that an invoice will be charged for the task to be carried out. The method of action has been made public by the publication in the Belgian Official Journal and on the civil protection website of the annex to the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007 laying down the orders of the emergency services that can be recovered and those that are free of charge. On the basis of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007, the relief zones and civil protection, each for their own interventions, can bill directly to the beneficiaries of the benefits. That is the physical person or legal person in whose interest the intervention is carried out. Certain interventions are always free, while others can always be paid. For other interventions it is left to the autonomy of the government, responsible for the emergency service, to invoice them or not and if so, at what rate. This means, in concrete terms, that civil protection interventions are regulated in the Annex to the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007. Those rates apply to the whole country. In the case of assisted areas, this is regulated in each area individually by a fee regulation approved by the zoning council. This means that for the same type of intervention civil protection can be billed differently from fire brigades, but also that this may vary from rescue zone to rescue zone. This is the discretion of each zone. As has already been announced, I would be happy to review this decision, in consultation with, among other things, the firefighters' federations. Sometimes things only come up in practice and the Minister is not aware of everything in advance. In light of the facts you're raising, I'd be more than happy to review this. In the meantime, the residents concerned were informed that the roof cover intervention is indeed payable but that an error has occurred in the calculation of the invoices and that a credit note and a new invoice will follow. As I said in reply to your third question, I would like to stress that certain interventions can be freely chosen whether or not to invoice, but once this has been established, they must be invoiced under these rules. The government cannot choose by intervention whether or not to invoice. Moreover, the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007 does not provide for any derogation from the rules in individual cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u48	Minister, I have two more questions. Firstly, I know you may be able to answer that this is difficult to estimate, but can you give me a certain timing in which you would like to review this RB? Secondly, I think it would be better if these matters were free of charge for civil protection, and if the local fire zones were to charge such cases, that would be their problem. Now it's like the KB is making sure that people on the ground have to pay for things that, if the fire department had come, would have been free.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u49	I'd like to take this up with you. I believe that this should be reflected in the reform of civil protection. When it is said that civil protection will only deal with specialized tasks, this means by definition that there is no overlap with the firefighters' federations. I believe that these specialized tasks will take place in the public domain rather than in the private domain. There may always be exceptions, but it will be tasks that the local fire department does not take care of. I therefore believe that civil protection can easily charge its own rates. This should be settled by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u50	Minister, if civil protection is to help in the future in the face of a storm, for example, we will have to avoid these differences in prices. If such disasters occur, it is logical that civil protection should also help.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u51	That's right. This is also so in the terms of reference, there are also longer-term tasks for civil protection. We could possibly take over the fire department's pricing. I agree with you that there is a certain logic to be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u52	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u53	Minister, the civil protection unit in Liedekerke will have to close its doors. At least, according to the news I heard this weekend. That's confirmed by Mayor Luc Wynant. As a result, some 130 employees have to look for a new job or another job location. Liedekerke is the most central of Flanders in terms of driving times to all aid zones of Flanders and even to Wallonia. The post is also equipped with very good buildings, recently some heavy investments have been made. Minister, I would have liked to have an answer to the following questions. Can you confirm that the barracks in Liedekerke will close? Where and when was this decided? If this has not yet been decided, how do you explain Mayor Luc Wynant's statements? Based on an objective analysis, Liedekerke was ranked as the most suitable and cost-effective barracks. How do you explain the choice to close Liedekerke? Based on what criteria do you decide which other barracks may remain open? How will the closure be addressed in practice? Will an extinct scenario be worked out and what impact will this have on staff and on areas of assistance? Finally, what is going to happen to the other barracks and locations of civil protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u54	Mr President, my question is in line with Mr Top's question. In summary, it comes down to this. On 9 March, the media reported that the Civil Protection Unit should close at Liedekerke because of your reform plan. Your cabinet responded with surprise to these messages, but stated that a decision would be taken urgently. Since this is the opposite of each other, it seems appropriate to me to ask my questions directly to you. Can you give us a ruling on the closure or non-closure? What arguments do you want to use? I would like to add a few elements that pro argue the preservation of Liedekerke. First, the central location. That seems obvious to me. Secondly, the fact that Brussels, as the European capital and seat of NATO headquarters, requires presence. Thirdly, the mobility problems surrounding Antwerp. Fourthly, the proximity of Doel's nuclear power stations to Brasschaat. I do not want to think dumb, but there is a risk that in the event of a disaster civil protection would be reduced to zero. With regard to the argument of savings, there is the fact that only a few years ago new buildings were built in Liedekerke and a redevelopment becomes virtually impossible. In order for us to be able to take some further steps, would it be useful to know if there has been any consultation with the trade unions, local authorities and the province of Flemish Brabant?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have often said it here: repetitio mater studiorum est. I would like to answer all the questions, but it would be useful to save you and me time by reading previous identical questions. Then you would no longer have to submit a number of questions. Mr Janssens, there was no argument in your plea, your PR campaign pro Liedekerke, that we did not take into account our considerations. I must deny that a decision has already been made on which barracks would remain open and which would close. That has been discussed here a few times. I have always honestly said that political decision-making in this respect will take more time than I had initially estimated. However, in recent days, positions within the government have come closer together and we are in the final stage of final decision-making. It might be good to give the context why we are going for a reduction in the number of barracks. After all, that is decided: we are going to reduce the number of barracks. We haven't decided which barracks we're talking about yet. What is the context and the ratio behind it? The first new fact is the existence of assisted areas. I didn't draft that law, my predecessors did. They have advocated and politically decided to create larger areas of assistance, not to promote professionalism, but to increase professionalism within these areas of assistance, and to create economies of scale there, so that these areas of assistance are more able to cope with. Personally, I think it would be better if civil protection and urgent medical aid had been added at the same time as the fire-fighting reform, which is more than the other extreme. That would have been more coherent and better, but they did not opt for it at the time. We'll continue that work. In these new areas of assistance, which are more able to cope with, there were several thesis on what had to be done with civil protection. One thesis was: disappear. Clearly, we did not opt for that. Another thesis, which seems to me to be the right one, is to create a specific and well-defined role for civil protection in the security chain. We have defined this function for civil protection and it contains three things. Firstly, civil protection will in future be responsible for specialized tasks that the relief zones, fire-fighting zones, cannot cope with. Specialised in this context means either using specialised equipment that the relief zones cannot afford, or using specialised competences and knowledge that are not available in the relief zones. Secondly, tasks of a long-term nature. Mr Demon has just set an example of a wind storm, after which roofs have to be closed. It'll take a few days. Civil protection can support local areas for these tasks. Thirdly, everything related to CBRN, i.e. chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear protection. At political level, within the nuclear cabinet, it has already been decided that these will be the tasks of civil protection. The future of civil protection is thus guaranteed. A second element that fits in with this reform is that we will boost the status of civil security agents to the fire regulations. A statute can involve a lot of things, but certainly reward. There is a great gap in remuneration between members of civil protection and firefighters, especially since the firefighters were reformed. With the reform of civil protection, we are bringing all civil protection agents into a status similar to that of the fire department. There are some reasons for this. Firstly, if these agents carry out specialized tasks that the relief zones cannot cope with, it seems to me quite logical that they should at least be at the same level of remuneration. Secondly, I would like the flow of fire zones to civil security to be made easier in both directions. Firefighters who want to specialise more must be able to move on to civil protection. On the other hand, anyone who works in civil protection and wants to work closer to home, for example, must be able to find an open job in his area of assistance. The interaction between the two must exist. That's politically determined. In order to make this statute affordable, combined with the fact that we only talk about specialised tasks, we want to remove as much overhead as possible from civil protection. That's why we're going to less barracks. That's the logic. The last stage, the determination of the barracks that remain, will happen very quickly. The communication of the mayor of Liedekerke is not based on political decision-making and is therefore premature. I am not saying that Liedekerke will not be closed or that Liedekerke will remain open. I say that no decision has yet been taken on this issue, but it will be done in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u56	Mr Janssens, for the sake of clarity, I have heard a great deal of the interpretation of the reform from you several times and it does not deviate from the previous one. I can say that you are straightforward in expressing the government's position. The reason why I repeat this question is because civil protection workers are concerned about their future and about how the future is set out and postponed for them. You have said that you will boost the status of civil protection workers to the status of firefighters. I believe that people are asking questions about this. If I understand correctly, the number of people left in the reformed civil protection system will be reduced. The people who are still present will not all retire, not all are entitled to retirement. They will have to be given the opportunity to move to a relief zone. I think I understand from a number of people in civil protection that there are a lot of questions about this. They want to know how their status is treated, how they will be given the opportunity to take courses. The courses they have already taken are also not currently accepted or assimilated to similar training courses for firefighters. As long as these questions are not answered and there is no clarity about them, that flow will not be possible. On the other hand, there will also be no question of the exchange you mentioned, nor will there be any possibility of a flow in the opposite direction, from fire zones to civil protection for specialisation and so on. Those are hot irons that cause a lot of displeasure, misunderstanding and noise, especially among the staff. That group of civil protection people isn't that big. At present we have six barracks in our country. Looks like they're getting put in the forget corner. The reform of the fire department has progressed much faster. As you yourself say, it is a pity that this reform has not yet been implemented. If plans are made for certain staff groups, it is a good thing that clarity is created. Then I would like to say a few words about the zones themselves. You have already explained the specialization. I stand by my point of view: this is actually about something hypothetical. I hear only rumors that there would be two barracks left, namely Brasschaat, in your own municipality and Crisnée along Walloon side. They're not so far apart from each other in a bird's eye. They are both situated in the east of the country. I note that the other side of the country has a lower level of coverage. You referred to that specialization. I also want to look west of the country and then there's a specialization in Jabbeke, about coastal rescue. Liedekerke is very centrally located. I would like to express the wish that these matters should be taken into account before a final decision is taken. If there is a decision, I urge you to make sure that it is clear, so that people do not have to wait for an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u57	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Personally, I have no problem with the reasons for reducing the number of barracks. I'm not Liedekerke's PR man, just to be clear. I believe that clarity is the most important criterion for further work, especially for staff. That is why I asked this question. I stand by it, and I am also pleased that the future of civil protection is guaranteed. On the other hand, we will follow the implementation procedures very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u58	Mr President, I think this is important enough to respond to the reply. You make the comparison with the fire zones. The law on fire zones dates back to 2007 and entered into force in early 2015. We haven't been working on civil protection for that long. I am also bored that the final stage of political decision-making has taken so long. If only 425 people are involved in civil protection, they are an essential link in our security chain. Of course, we should have created clarity for those people much sooner, but I had to know which barracks to work with first. The advantage of being with so little is that we can almost work to suit those people and sit down with them at the table. That's the idea. The problem is the people who live the furthest from the barracks that remain open. It's supposed to have a fade-out scenario and not, so to speak, drive to four barracks within a month, flip the key and say it's closed from now on. The aim is to have a fade-out scenario and to offer the people close to their pension comfort. It is intended to check, for those who cannot make the long journey, whether there are vacancies in the surrounding fire zones, or whether we can facilitate this. You just mentioned practical modalities. The will and commitment is there to solve these issues, so that we can facilitate that for those people. There won't be any naked layoffs. We will see how we can resolve the situation for everyone. You may, indeed, criticize that. That period of uncertainty has taken a long time for those people, and I am aware of that. Finally, as far as Brasschaat is concerned, without prejudging the facts, it is not because I live in Brasschaat that Brasschaat should not stay open and it is not because I live in Brasschaat that Brasschaat should stay open. That must be based on an objective decision-making process. Both staying open and closing Brasschaat should not depend on the minister's place of residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u59	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly. Minister, I keep your promise to follow staff very closely in the event of a decision so that every member of staff can be given the best possible solution. After all, they're employees. You have worked with employees yourself and you know how well you need to soign them to keep motivated employees. Secondly, I would like to talk about civil protection. It is no longer part of the future task package, but I would like to refer to 22 March 2016. At the scene of the attacks, members of civil protection were the first on-site emergency services. I'd like to remind you of that. Those people did their job very well back then. That's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u60	Mr Janssens, do you have a reply? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 17230 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u62	Minister, you have made a whole series of statements that I will come back to in a forthcoming inquiry. I do not agree at all with your views on some of the guidelines you give to the fight against terrorism. We'll have the opportunity to come back, as I said, during a next inquiry. Here, I will focus on the level of threat, starting from what you said during this interview. According to your comments in the press last Friday, almost a year after the Brussels attacks, Belgium remains under the threat of terrorist attacks, but the nature of the danger has changed, as the Islamic State group is now a "source of inspiration" more than a sponsor. You say without complex and I quote you: "But we remain at level 3 of threat", on a scale of 4, "which means that we remain vigilant to what happens in our territory and in the world, because terrorism knows no borders." I would therefore like to express my concern at such statements, which seem to reflect political action at least fragile in the face of the threat to be faced. I would like to ask you the following question. By normalizing Level 3, which in practice means that the threat is possible or likely, is the scale of the threat still as relevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic621x.u63	The level of the threat is set by the OCAM, according to a specific methodology that was refined last year. I believe that neither the government we represent nor anyone else can question the relevance of the assessment and the determination of the level of threat by the OCAM. Level 3 means that there is sufficient information to consider a threat as possible and likely. This assessment shall be carried out on the basis of information from all services. These are seven support services, as I have already said on several occasions. I have never heard any of these services cast any doubt on the results of the OCAM analysis. This analysis, which has led to a level 3 for more than a year, is in no way impugned by any of these services. I am therefore reassured that this analysis is correct.
