ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u1	Question No 17293 by Mr Crusnière is transformed into a written question. Mr Calvo is coming to ask his question. Mr Flahaux will join us later to ask his question No 20768.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u2	Mr President, Minister, according to the Belgian government's 2015-2018 stability programme, approved by the Federal Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015, Belgium would achieve a structural balance by 2018. There are significant deviations on that trajectory. Madam Minister, first of all, what are the main political and economic arguments for maintaining the path? Secondly, how many additional debts in billion euros has the federal government made today compared to the route approved by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015? Thirdly, how many additional debts in billion euros will the federal government have incurred by the end of the legislature compared to the trajectory approved by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015? By the federal government, I mean entity I every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u3	Mr President, Mr Bogaert, thank you for your question. Indeed, a stability programme was submitted in 2015 but also in 2016 and 2017. The European Commission is asking for Member State governments to submit an updated version of their stability plan each year to allow them to update it. Your question therefore refers to a theoretical objective which is updated on the basis of the evolution of the economic situation and taking into account exceptional events. Since you ask me the question, I will make the theoretical calculation. In the 2015 stability programme, we expected a debt ratio of 102 % for 2018. According to the draft budgetary plan for 2018, it should amount to 102.7 % in 2018. Despite the exceptional events in our country in 2016, and taking into account the major structural reforms that have been carried out since the preparation of the 2015 Stability Plan, some of which have a short-term cost and only generate long-term profit, we have to note that the difference between the debt rate planned in 2015 and the evolution we expect for 2018 is globally limited. I have said it several times in this committee, although budgetary consolidation is essential to protect future generations, only the establishment of a dynamic economy can guarantee the long-term viability of our social protection. Without growth and job creation, a budget cannot remain in balance for long. In this context, the government has decided to add a progressive and balanced fiscal recovery policy for public finances. This policy, coupled with ambitious decisions on structural reforms, has provided the basis for our country's economic recovery, based on a new sound and solid basis for the future. In this respect, I would like to inform you that, in the draft budget plan that we sent to the European Commission yesterday for 2018, we are assuming a nominal deficit of 1.1% for the joint government. As a reminder, this nominal deficit amounted to 3,1% in 2014. The primary balance should be +1 % in 2017 and +1.2 % in 2018. This figure is significantly higher than in the years 2014/2016, which showed a much smaller surplus of the primary balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u4	Madam Secretary, I have two points of reply. The overall level of debt does not, objectively speaking, differ significantly, although 0.7 % times 4 is still 2.8 billion. I'll verify the numbers. There have also been a lot of sales during that period and I think they should be added to the delta in the debt. Secondly, as far as the deficit itself is concerned. I am in favour of the contractual view of the coalition agreement. I mean that at some point the government concludes a contract with Parliament. If there are significant deviations from the coalition agreement, then we need to seek greater contact with Parliament in order to see how the coalition agreement can be renegotiated in one way or another. You know that the budgetary balance by 2018 was one of the key elements of that coalition agreement. The term progressive policy is now deviating from that. I believe that for some time now there has been a South European budgetary policy rather than a North European one. I am neither intellectual nor politically agreed to depart from that. You are right that other important reforms have been implemented since then and that everything needs to be balanced. However, I do not agree that we can simply change to a new term and say that a progressive policy is now being pursued. In other European countries, too, the improvement of public finances can be combined with an important growth in the economy. So one doesn't rule out the other. Therefore, I do not think this argument is correct in itself. Anyway, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u5	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to Belgium's 2015-2018 stability programme, approved by the Federal Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015, Belgium will achieve a structural balance by 2018. Today there are important deviations on this route. Are there any other euro area countries that also have significant deviations from their submitted stability programmes? Where do we get in the ranking of deviation from those other countries? What is the motivation of these countries and how does it relate to the arguments used by the federal government in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u6	Mr President, Mr Bogaert, the European regulations provide for Member States to update their stability programme annually, as has just been said in response to your previous question. The purpose of the update is to implicitly take into account any change in the economic context, in line with the Commission's recommendations to draw up the stability programme on the basis of the most plausible macroeconomic outlook. This update may lead to a review of the stability programme and its trajectory over the years. This is true not only for Belgium but also for other EU countries. Within the euro area, there are also other countries that have significant deviations from their stability programme. Indeed, Belgium had foreseen a structural balance in the 2015-2018 stability programme of April 2015. In the current stability programme covering the period 2017-2020, the objective for the structural balance is.0.4% of GDP. This means that there is a deviation of 0.4 % of GDP on the path submitted in 2015 which is theoretical. Within the euro area, Belgium is ranked sixth in seventeen countries. Greece and Cyprus were subject to a macroeconomic adjustment programme in 2015 and did not submit a stability programme. The countries with a larger deviation for the year 2018 between the 2015 and 2017 stability programmes are, by order of derogation: Spain 1.6 % GDP, Italy 1.3 % GDP, Estonia and Luxembourg both 1 % GDP, Latvia 0.5 % GDP. However, this purely arithmetic comparison is incorrect and biased because it does not allow the figures to be placed in the context of the structural policy pursued in the various countries and of the nature of the scale of the reform implemented, as is the case in Belgium. A complete comparison requires a list and a description of the whole reform carried out in each country so that a clear picture can be obtained. I would draw your attention to the fact that this information is the result of an analysis of my administration on the basis of the data available on the European Commission's website. For a more precise and formal analysis, please contact the European Commission. For Belgium, the derogation is partly explained by the costs of asylum and migration and the rising security costs. We have also had to deal with the macroeconomic consequences of the attacks that have had a greater impact on our economic dynamism than merely its direct budgetary costs. The federal government, like other European countries, has chosen not to hinder growth and to ensure that growth is not driven by too strict a reorganisation policy. As a result, the original route of 2015 has been adapted to a limited extent. It is also important to stress that the management of budgetary policy fits into a dialectic with the economic policy pursued by the government, which in turn fits in with a dynamic aimed at supporting and consolidating the economic recovery, and which has been in place since the current government took office, while also taking care to implement the structural policies necessary for the revival of our country. This revival will enable our economy to be anchored in a sustainable and robust way so that we can meet future challenges while safeguarding our social protection system. This balance between budgetary consolidation and recovery-oriented policies is bearing fruit, as shown by the latest forecasts of the Federal Planning Office. They show an increase in economic activities of 1.7 % in 2017 and 1.7 % in 2018. In addition, more than 133 000 jobs were created between the last quarter of 2014 and the second semester of 2017. During the period 2015-2018, the latest forecasts of the Federal Planning Office suggest that a total of 205 000 jobs should be created. The budget shall be updated annually in order to maintain that correct balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u7	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. I didn't get one point right. Are we in sixth place in seventeen places with the least deviation or with the most deviation of seventeen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u8	On the previous question, I noticed that I had asked how much extra debt in billions of euro the federal government has made to date. Your answer was in percentages, which, of course, could be something else. So I would also like to have the answer in billions of euros, if that is possible. This is politically important, because the ratio will be lower as a percentage, for example, of possible high inflation, which has certainly been the case in Belgium. I had asked for additional debt in billions of euros. I don't know if you can give that answer right now. Otherwise, I'll ask that question next time without any problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u9	In my view, the only relevant factor is as a percentage of gross domestic product. GDP changes every year. It is the percentage of GDP that is important. The answer given is the most appropriate one we can give.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u10	I don't agree with that. I ask for the answer in billions of euros. I also explain why I am asking this in euros. I understand that the percentage may also be important. However, I would urge a response in euro. That is what I, in my capacity as a Member of Parliament, am asking for the answer to be given in euro.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u11	I have just read the draft programme for Europe. It says that in 2018, I believe, it is slightly more than 102 %. There is also an absolute amount, about EUR 442 billion. That figure can easily be verified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u12	Mr President, I must insist that I receive the requested answer in my capacity as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u13	It's 102 %. It was 106 and 104, now 102.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u14	Mr President, that is 1.7 %. I don't need the answer right now. I will come back next time to know the amount in euro. It's important that I get the figure officially and not from a document.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u15	Madam Secretary, perhaps you can deliver it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u16	The debt is always expressed as a percentage of GDP. Speaking in absolute figures has no economic value for the real economy of our country. That's why I said so. Mr Bogaert, if you want absolute figures, you have to choose which GDP you are taking, 2014 GDP, 2018 GDP, or today's. For this you will have different figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u17	You shouldn't get angry, but I don't agree with you politically. I ask you, as a Member of Parliament, to reply in euro. I do not agree that the percentage is the only relevant one. The reason is that every euro has to be repaid. The absolute figures have therefore a socio-political and economic relevance to know how much euro debt has been added. My question was how much euro debt has been added in relation to the path promised to Parliament, regardless of Europe. I believe that Parliament is also relevant. That is why I urge you to know these figures in euro. If you don't give it to me today, it won't be a problem, but I'm gonna keep asking them until I get them officially. It is not up to the government politically to modulate what I ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, as part of the process that began with the publication of the discussion paper on the future of the European Union's finances, on 25 September the Commission organised a conference on the challenges facing the European Union's budget and ways to address them. Commissioners Günther Oettinger, responsible for Budget and Human Resources, Corina Cretu, responsible for Regional Policy, and Mariya Gabriel, responsible for Digital Economy, contributed to the conference. Minister Corine Cretu and Günther Oettinger met with stakeholders. What were the results of these meetings for Belgium? What is the Belgian contribution to the work of the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF)? What are Belgium's possible remarks so that the next MFF best meets the expectations of contributors to the EU budget? At this stage of work, can you already tell us the main axes of the future EU budgetary policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u19	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, a conference was indeed organised on 25 September by Commissioners Cretu and Oettinger with the theme "The future of the European Union's finances". This conference provided an opportunity to discuss, among other things, the current and future challenges facing the European Union budget. At this stage, however, it was not for the Member States to put forward an official position. Such a position would be premature, since we are at an early stage in the negotiations, since the Commission's proposals themselves still need to be clarified. The Commission's concrete proposals are indeed expected by May 2018. However, we are convinced that we must not wait until the proposals are on the table to take an attitude. We believe that it is important to influence the negotiations upstream by putting forward certain points of view. To this end, several meetings have already been organised by the Directorate of European Affairs of the FPS Foreign Affairs in a format that brings together representatives of the federal government and federated entities. These have led to the initiation of new reflections and the identification of certain priority areas. As part of a bilateral meeting between Commissioner Oettinger and the Belgian authorities at the end of September, Belgium reiterated its willingness to contribute actively and proactively to the ongoing reflection in order to make Europe more responsive to the challenges on the one hand and to the expectations of citizens on the other. As regards the own resources to which you refer, it has been agreed at Belgian level to continue the reflection on this subject, which is becoming important in a budgetary context marked by the exit of Britain from the European Union and the budgetary constraints that we are facing. These two elements can impact the overall volume of the European budget. As you have understood, we intend to take an active part in the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework for the European Union. In this context, the coordination work of the Belgian positions, initiated at the start of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will continue and intensify in the coming months with the participation of all the departments concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I suspect that Brexit and its implications for Britain's financial intervention will have a lot of influence. It would have been expected that Germany, in coordination with France, would facilitate progress. Angela Merkel being entangled in the constitution of a government, things will not be facilitated. In any event, I take note of your resolution to ensure that Belgium remains a strong advocate of European unity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u21	Minister, it appears that the federal government has decided to choose parameters different from those determined by the National Bank and the Federal Office of the Plan, which are those of the Institute of National Accounts, for the preparation of its 2018 budget. This takes place in disrespect of the law, which provides that the parameters of the Institute of National Accounts must be chosen. This is, to say the least, strange, especially as it appears that these figures are also those proposed by the FEB and IRES. I have no doubt about the qualities of IRES, but the Institute itself asserts that it does not have the same technical means of macroeconomic evaluation as the National Bank or the Plan Office. I don't think these two problems are annoyed. In addition, the Government uses different revenue and expenditure figures for transfers to federated entities, i.e. 1.8 per cent for economic growth and 1.7 per cent (the growth rate estimated by the Federal Planning Office) for expenditure to federated entities. With this process, which seems quite unique to me, the federal government manages to flatter its budget. However, the Special Financing Act provides that the rate of growth to be taken into account in the calculation of allocations to federated entities is the rate estimated by the Federal Planning Office and cannot be derogated from. Of course, the 2018 budget will be subject to one or more adjustments depending on various variations, including those related to macroeconomic parameters. If growth is revised upwards to 1.8 per cent in the course of the year by the Federal Planning Office, the question is whether the federal government, which has already taken this increased growth into account in calculating its revenues, will still have the means to adjust its spending to the federated entities, as provided for in the Special Financing Act. Have you made or planned to make a provision to cover increases in endowments related to this increased growth? This seems essential, since the government will not be able to count on any additional revenue if growth increases by 0.1 per cent, as it seems to assume. Are there any ongoing consultations with the budget ministers of the federated entities on this issue? You will understand that we were very surprised to see you consider 1.8% growth while the Plan Office and the National Bank gave you the figure of 1.7%. This seems completely unexpected and irresponsible to me. There is nothing to say that we will indeed see 1.8% growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u22	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, at the outset, I would like to point out to you that it is normal for the growth parameters used by the government to differ from those published by the National Bank of Belgium, since the law requires the government to rely effectively on the economic budget established by the Federal Planning Office. On this point, the government has prepared its budget well on the basis of the June forecast by the Federal Planning Office, the most recent forecast at the time of the July budget work. In this regard, it is important to remind you that the government, in order to be able to send the draft budget plan to the European Commission in a timely manner, but above all to table the 2018 budget in Parliament as soon as possible, chose to close its budget work in July. An update of all revenue and expenditure on the basis of the September economic budget would have seriously undermined this dual objective. This approach implies that in the Ways and Means budget and the general expenditure budget, with the exception of the items concerned by the transfers, were calculated on the basis of the growth parameters established in June by the Federal Office of the Plan, i.e. an economic growth of 1.6% in 2017 and 1.6% in 2018. Nevertheless, in July, the government did indeed target an upward revision of the growth parameters, which was reflected in the new projections prepared by the Federal Office of the Plan in September. This anticipation of a revision of the growth parameters and its net effect on the deficit are taken into account by means of an aggregate ESA correction used in the final calculation of the nominal deficit of entity I. This ESA correction is therefore not broken down at the level of revenue or expenditure. Only at the beginning of the year can all revenue and expenditure be updated, taking into account the exact impact of the upward revision of the growth parameters. To the extent that we take account of a net effect, there is therefore no need for a possible provision to deal with the impact on expenditure, in particular on possible transfers to the Communities and Regions. As far as transfers are concerned, I should like to point out that, since the budgetary work of the Communities and Regions began after the publication of the September economic budget, the Federal Government has directly adjusted the estimate of transfers to the Communities and Regions on the basis of the growth parameters of September. This has enabled the Communities and Regions to have the most up-to-date information compatible with their approach. A working group was organised with the administrations and also the offices of the Communities and Regions to discuss new transfer estimates. As you recall, the calculated transfer amount is not frozen for 2018. It will be updated during the first budgetary control in 2018 and during the other controls planned during the year. The final amounts received by the Communities and Regions will only reflect the reality of the economic development of 2018. Corrections will therefore have to be made when counting. As far as macroeconomic forecasts are concerned, I would remind you that they are regularly reviewed during the course of the year. For example, the 2017 forecast prepared by the Federal Office of the Plan was revised four times between September 2016 and September 2017, from 1.2 to 1.7%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u23	Mr. President, of which act! But, minister, I do not understand what allowed you to take 1.8%, while the Institute of National Accounts asked to take 1.7%. For the rest, how do you explain that your Walloon counterpart, Mr. Crocke, set his budget on 1.7% and not 1.8%? How are you going to deal with cacophony in your relations with the European Commission? How are you going to present your trajectory to him? She's probably gonna say your problems with federated entities aren't looking at her. But when you are going to have to divide efforts between federated entities and entity I, how are you going to do it, since your budgets have not been drawn up on the same macroeconomic basis? I wonder where you're going. I'm not convinced by your explanations. There will obviously be adjustments in 2018; perhaps even in 2017 for the 2018 budget. But before that, you will have to look to the European Union. What coordination will you have, within the framework of well-understood interests, with entities that have adopted different parameters? There's something out of my mind!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic748x.u24	This brings us to the end of our work. Next Tuesday there will be a meeting of the Panama Papers Committee all day. On Wednesday morning, the Federal Ombudsman comes by and on Wednesday afternoon, a plenary session with the report of the Committee of Inquiry is in charge of investigating the terrorist attacks.
