ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u2	By letter dated 26 September 2017, the PS Group of the Chamber informed me that Mr Ahmed Laaouej was appointed as group chairman. By letter dated 26 September 2017, the PS Group of the House informed me of the appointment of Mr.Ahmed Laaouej as group chair. We congratulate him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u3	By letter dated 20 September 2017, the Council of the Flemish Community Commission informed us that it had been declared legal and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 20 September 2017, the "Raad van de Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie" announced that it had formed in its session today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u4	By letter of 20 September 2017, the Assemblée de la Commission EGF informed us that it had been declared legal and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 20 September 2017, the Assembly of the French Community Commission announced that it had formed itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u5	By letter of 20 September 2017, the Walloon Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 20 September 2017, the Walloon Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u6	By letter of 21 September 2017, the Parliament of the French Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 21 September 2017, the Parliament of the French Community announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u7	At the request of the applicant, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck) amending the law of 19 August 1948 on the performance of general interest in peace time, in order to ensure, in the event of strikes by the government, that certain benefits of federal public interest are carried out, No. 1907/1, to be referred to the Commission on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises in order to add it to the draft law on the continuity of services relating to rail passenger transport in the event of a strike, No. 2650/1. At the author's request, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises the proposed law (Ms. Catherine Fonck) amending the Law of 19 August 1948 on peacetime public service benefits, aimed at guaranteeing the performance of certain federal public service benefits in the event of a strike in the public service, No. 1907/1, in order to attach it to the draft law on the continuity of the service of railway transport of persons in the event of a strike, No. 2650/1. This bill was previously sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration. This bill had previously been referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u8	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the war on drugs announced by your mayor and party chairman in Antwerp does not really seem to be heading for a great success. There is a mix-up of drugs in Antwerp, but it has become a mess between different ethnic criminal gangs who trade drugs. In 2013, five tons of drugs were seized in Antwerp, 30 tons last year, which is a sixfold increase. You could say that this increased catch is a great success for the security services, but that is not true, because the massive seizure of drugs has nothing to do with the amount of drugs offered on the streets of Antwerp. The price of cocaine, for example, has never been as low as it is now. This indicates that the supply of drugs is so large that the Antwerp users do not even get it sniffed up anymore. That is the current reality in Antwerp. In addition, the gang violence comes with 18 incidents between different clans and gangs in the past few months, including shootings and molotov cocktails, all over the place. Antwerp looks like a kind of Chicago on the Scheldt. The federal government is now unpacking a Power Plan following a federal police report. That is many years too late, because already in 2007 the International Narcotics Control Strategy Report of the U.S. State Department stated that 50-60 tonnes of cocaine were imported into Antwerp. The federal police laughed at that then, wondering in the newspapers where those figures would come from. Today it appears that those figures were even an understatement, with all possible consequences. Antwerp is the transit port for northern Europe for drugs, coming from different continents, not least from South America. The Stream Plan must be more than just another symbolic plan for the citizens and voters of Antwerp to take place in one year's time, and to give the impression that action is being taken. I hope this will be the case. Let me give just one example, Mr President, and close. On the theoretical framework of the Antwerp federal judicial police of 550 there is a shortage of 150. This speaks volumes. Terrorism is being waged, and that's good. However, the problem of drugs, which is really spreading in Antwerp, must also be combated. Please explain your Power Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u9	Mr Dewinter, the municipal elections are clearly on their way. Whatever brings you to the city council in Antwerp will take you to the federal Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u11	Then, of course, there is always a Calvo who supports you, Mr Dewinter; that is quite clear. [[Muzzle]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u12	Let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u13	Mr President, we have time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u14	Colleagues, may I ask you to listen to the Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u15	Mr Dewinter, I must contradict you with regard to the results of the policy of local government in Antwerp and, above all, with regard to police action. Incredible successes are being achieved there. Mr De Wever has given you the figures in the city council of Antwerp. It is true, however, that it is a third battle, that is true. It is also true that it is often seen in crime phenomena that the modus operandi changes when one is strongly engaged on a particular phenomenon. In that sense, I believe that the Mayor of Antwerp has done well to ring the bell and also to bring everyone around the table at federal level and, together with my colleague Mr Geens and Mr Van Overtveldt, to look at myself and all our services to see how we can work together in the terrible fight against this terrible phenomenon of drugs. We have a good example at federal level, the Channel Plan. That has paid off. The battle has not yet been fought and continues for a long time, but results are being achieved on the ground, so good results even that other municipalities from Brussels are coming to ask to join the Channel Plan. We will also apply the same model of the Channel Plan in Antwerp for the war on drugs. Increasing police capacity is the most obvious, but what is at stake is a joint approach with all the players in the field: customs authorities, the federal police, evidently the local police, the local police, and the courts. They have to beat the shit out of each other to win the third fight against drugs. The plan originated and matured there. It hasn't worked out in detail yet. That will be the case in the near future, and the discussions are under way. I will give you, at the appropriate time, a text and an explanation of the concrete implementation of that plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u16	Mr President, Minister, let me say that your answer is very poor. You will give text and explanation to the Power Plan at the appropriate time. My suspicions appear to be correct. The Streamplan is mainly a cloth for bleeding, is mainly a plaster on a wooden leg, a symbolic plan that apparently has not yet taken shape and that should serve to appease and reassure the Antwerpian. As far as the war on drugs in the streets of Antwerp are concerned, the little ones are indeed being caught. The small drug dealer is taken off the street and the nuisance it causes disappears, but the big boys are let go. There has never been so much cocaine and drugs traffic in Antwerp as is the case today. The war on drugs has turned into a drug war between criminal ethnic gangs with dozens of shootings, burnt-out car wrecks and molotov cocktails to homes. A war on drugs means not only cutting the branches of the tree, but tackling the roots. The objective cannot be to eliminate the nuisance, the objective must be to ensure in a city like Antwerp that drugs are out of the question, as far as possible in this society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u17	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks more and more refugees have been reported along our motorways and on the parkings along the highways. We know that the Flemish Government and Minister Ben Weyts have decided to reduce the number of private people guarding these motorway parkings. We also note that smugglers are becoming more and more active. Our police forces have different core tasks. One of these core tasks is certainly to ensure that the refugees who want to go to England, and who are climbing in trucks in car parks, can be picked up. However, there is a lot of time in that. We have road police, but they have to ask for a lot of help from the local police. When they arrive at the scene, we see that the refugees and also the smugglers are gone. Yesterday, Brug's Attorney Frank Demeester, who deals with human trafficking in West Flanders, said that the police forces involved are basically on the ground, they don't remember where they jumped first. If we know that, in the current migration crisis, smugglers are increasingly focusing on human trafficking, I think it would be justified for more resources and manpower to go into this problem. Both the federal judicial police and the shipping police have special units, which are used specifically for human trafficking. I would therefore like to call for these units to be strengthened. Mr Minister, is the decision of your colleague Mr Weyts to stop the private car parks from being monitored by the private sector, or to stop private car surveillance, taken by mutual agreement? What opportunities do you see to take coordinated measures, local, Flemish and federal, so that the freeway parking facilities do not become another attraction for refugees? Finally, what opportunities do you see to strengthen the police in its mission against human trafficking?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u18	Mr Demon, I admire the perseverance with which you raise the local problems with you at regular intervals, which indeed has national repercussions. You're right to do that. As you know, I have said on several occasions here that the fight against human trafficking is one of my priorities, which is also included in the National Security Plan. The Integrated Security Framework Paper is one of the priorities and lists 39 actions specifically aimed at the smuggling and attracting of refugees. The Flemish Region uses funds from the Traffic Fund and, if I am not mistaken, the Court of Auditors has a problem with this. The current contract runs until October 12th and then ends. That is not a decision of the Flemish Region as such, but it has been imposed. In the meantime, we have entered into consultations with the Flemish Region, with Minister Weyts' cabinet, to see how we will deal with this. It's still my goal to eradicate those human trafficking with root and branch. Depending on the consultations, we will invest additional resources in the federal police, because if we set priorities, we must also put resources in place. This is still in consultation with the Flemish Region and will be completed before 12 October. I will in no way allow this to deepen. The resources needed for this are both people and technology. At the appropriate time, these resources will be put forward, because we want to win the fight against serious crime too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u19	Mr Minister, I am pleased to hear my colleague speaking of extra people in Antwerp, that you are releasing resources and troops for West Flanders. Let us look ahead to 12 October and then see if this is enough. I'm already optimistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u20	Mr President, Minister, our group believes that expulsion is too important and too sensitive a matter for decisions to be taken only by a State Secretary. Minister, I have three questions for you. Firstly, is there or is there not a general framework of agreements within this government which aims to ensure that, before expulsion decisions are taken, consultations are held with your Department of Foreign Affairs? Secondly, last week we were talking about expulsions to Sudan. The Prime Minister said that this was not at the Council of Ministers. Well, has there been any consultation with your department prior to the Secretary of State's démarche? If you have given your consent in advance, in contrast to Karel De Gucht and Hervé Hasquin, a renowned MR politician and historian, who greatly lift the agreements made with the Sudanese regime, then I would like to know what you did on the basis of what you did? Thirdly, today we read in De Morgen that the Secretary of State had advanced plans to send South Sudan to South Sudan. Were you consulted on this in advance? If so, I hope you will take into account the advice of your ambassador, who is the best knower of the situation on the ground. I hope I do not have to hear today that this government goes beyond Trump. The US administration decided on 18 September that there would be no expulsions from the US towards South Sudan. If the information is correct in De Morgen, it appears that Secretary of State Francken wished to go even further than the Trump administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u21	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, in general, our embassies do not play a specific role in the expulsion of illegal immigrants. The contacts are between the police forces. That's always been the case. As far as Sudan is concerned, I refer to the Prime Minister's reply. There was no agreement within the government or between the Secretary of State and my department. I have just said that we do not play a specific role in the expulsion procedure. As far as South Sudan is concerned, I can give you a very clear answer. Secretary of State Francken has confirmed that there are no expulsions from South Sudan to their country. So I have read with great interest the 'I quote 'unsolicited advice' from our ambassador in Kampala, but there is no question of expulsions to South Sudan. You may read De Morgen, so may I, but there are no expulsions to South Sudan. The question is different.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u22	Mr Minister, the report in De Morgen is clear, in the sense that a question has come to the ambassador in Kampala from the Interior, just to inform whether the escorts returning to the South Sudan would be safe. Last week, and earlier this week, we heard from the Prime Minister that a review of the ECHR is a cardinal issue for the government. It is clear that there is not even the effort to consult those people in Belgian public service who know the situation best in South Sudan on the safety of the people who are being sent back. You must not deny that there are plans. Over the past 50 years, human rights have always been at the heart of our foreign policy, whether under central left or centre right governments. Our country had a good reputation in terms of human rights. This right-wing government is tearing that reputation apart. First she voted Saudi Arabia on the UN Women's Commission. Last week, she wanted to point people out to Sudan. Afterwards, a secretary of state had plans to go beyond Trump and point out people to South Sudan. That's outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u23	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, recent years have not been an obvious time for the European Union. There was the debt crisis, there was the migration crisis, and there was the UK's decision to leave the Union. Every time there are national elections, we look forward to seeing whether, let us be honest, the democratic parties can stand up. I refer to the Netherlands, France and Germany. I don't think there can be any business as usual right now. I believe that the time has come to think very carefully about the future of the European Union. I believe that Commission President Juncker put the right questions in his White Paper and that the French President Macron has come up with real answers. He's very ambitious. He has the firm political will to move forward with the European Union and he has launched a number of ideas that my group has long advocated, such as: strong European defence, far-reaching police and intelligence cooperation, transnational electoral lists for the European Parliament and, last but not least, a unified European asylum and migration policy. I believe that the latter is a very important element in the discussions of the last few weeks, days, and even minutes. This discussion shows that we really need it. It is only with unified procedures, with border controls at the Union's external borders and with the application of European agreements such as those in Dublin that we can pursue a serious migration policy. Hence my questions to you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. It is my firm belief that Belgium must play its historic role as a tractor. How will our country stand up to President Macron's statements? What opportunities does the European agenda offer in the coming weeks and months? Finally, how do you estimate the result of the German election? After all, only if the German-French axis and Benelux work well can Europe progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u24	Mr President, Mr Dewael, you know that we have been working in a number of areas for a number of years to reform policy at European level. With the six founding countries we have tried to put a new idea on the table. Last year, I had a conversation with Emmanuel Macron about this. He wasn't elected president at the time. At that time, I suggested the same idea of real reform. In my view, there is no need for a new treaty, but for concrete decisions on defence and security. We have already made some progress in this area. In addition, there must also be a genuine socio-economic policy in the 27 Member States, or within the euro area. If this is not possible, an initiative should be taken with a smaller number of countries. In the field of external relations, a common policy must be pursued with a stronger voice from Europe in the world. I am thinking, for example, of climate policy following the decision of the new US administration. I also think it is possible to make some progress in the area of migration. We need better control of our external borders and better contacts with African countries. A decision on asylum policy must also be taken. There are a number of different views within the European Union on this matter. We will work with our French and German colleagues. The elections in Germany were also a signal in this respect. A new programme for Europe needs to be developed with my friends from the Liberal Group. This will happen in the Benelux anyway. I believe that Belgium should play a role in this context, in cooperation with Germany and France. Over the next few weeks and months, we will be working on such a programme. The Commission has proposed a calendar. The Commission intends to organise an extraordinary European Council on the future of Europe in March 2019. Mr President, I think it would be very useful to hold a debate in this hemisphere on the future of Europe. It seems important to me to be able to propose very concrete reforms rather than a new institutional debate on a new treaty. You know that we think in many respects in the same direction as Mr Macron. As you know, for many years now, in my personal capacity, I have been calling for a joint constituency, not only at European level, but also in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u25	Mr President, we agree on that last point, but that was not the subject of my question. I am pleased with the answer given by the Deputy Prime Minister. As far as migration and asylum are concerned, I would like to make another appeal. The Member States of the European Union can all put their own measures first. This issue is of major concern to the people throughout the European Union. You know the necklace is only as strong as its weakest link. It is my firm belief that a uniform asylum policy with the defence of the external borders and with short procedures can provide the answers to the questions that arise. This cannot come from the individual Member States, but must be based on the Union itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u26	Mr President, Minister, it seems that detainees are being recruited in Belgian prisons. And the recruiter is not just anyone, since it is the Islamic State. In any case, it is the information that has recently been disclosed in a major daily newspaper in the capital and that would have been confirmed by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. A mail was said to have slipped under the door of a cell. It contained a proposal for recruitment by the Islamic State by setting out conditions, it seems, very advantageous, since the detainee was promised to restore meaning to his life, as well as offering him a piece of land, excellent weapons and a way of using it to leave the territory. This information is obviously very worrying. Indeed, we know that prisons are a veritable crucible for radicalism and that it is even possible to foment attacks there. In the light of our country's recent history, it is extremely worrying to learn that it is still possible to send such a letter to a prisoner. Minister, do you confirm this news? If so, when did this message arrive? Why was it addressed to this particular person? Has a real recruitment campaign been launched? Has this individual been targeted due to specific characteristics? Who sent that mail? It seems that this recruitment office offered hours and opening days to be contacted - like any hiring agency. Is this a particular risk? How is it that the surveillance devices, which must prevail in prison, did not work? How did this mail arrive in prison? Have any specific measures been taken on your part since it is known that external contacts with ordinary detainees can radicalize them and lead them to terrorism? Do you intend to take special steps to remedy this, particularly in the light of this new information?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u27	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, we have been familiar with the matter of this letter for some time now. An in-depth investigation into its origin, content and destination was conducted. The security and intelligence services have obviously been informed of its existence. After investigation, the services concluded that this was purely a joke. It is important to note that this investigation reveals that the letter was not sent from outside the prison but that the author recovered an envelope that was already in his possession in order to insert the recruitment letter. So the envelope was one day handled by the prison services but with another content. It was therefore materially impossible for the prison to know the contents of the letter before it was revealed by the detainee in question, since it circulated only among the detainees. However, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to existing legislation on the exchange of letters for prisoners. Article 55(1) of the 2005 Law of Principles provides that "letters sent to detainees may, prior to delivery, be subject to the supervision of the director or staff member designated by him. For the purpose of maintaining order or security, this control shall relate to the presence of substances or objects other than correspondence. This check does not allow the letter to be read unless there are customized indications that this reading is necessary in the interests of order and security. Reading the letter may, if necessary, take place in the absence of the detainees." The detainee who received the letter was not at all known for acts related to radicalism, extremism or terrorism. Within the prison, there was no problem with his behaviour and he was in no way subject to individualized indications requiring thorough control, at least at the time of receipt of the letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u28	Minister, I understand that this is a bad joke. I had information that the prosecution confirmed the investigation and the existence of this letter. I think this should be an opportunity to check that the mechanisms to avoid radicalisation in prison and the recruitment of certain people are operational. Belgian terrorism news remains extremely important: arrests, searches, charges. We also learn that some people who are supposed to have died are not. They returned to Belgium, in particular to Verviers. That indeed deserves our full vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u29	Mr President, my question is addressed to the Secretary of State. Madam Secretary of State, before, when we were in school, on weekends, we held the cash register at the local grocery store or we distributed the newspapers. Today, we're prostitutes. I hope that, like me, you were shocked by the advertising made by the RichMeetBeautiful.com dating site. As you probably know, these are big billboards that encourage young students to register on this website to improve their lifestyle. This site, which presents itself as a classic dating site, is nothing but disguised prostitution. Far be it from me to advertise these kinds of sites, or to judge the young girls who have decided to sign up for them. What brings me to speak today and to question you are the reasons why these students sell their charms. When asked, they clearly tell you that they can no longer pay for their education, that they have more and more difficulty in paying their bills, their housing, their minerval, and that they must also eat and clothe themselves. The root of the problem, and what we are concerned about, is the growing precariousness in which our students live. Not to mention that this lifestyle also leads to great insecurity. These women may find themselves in potentially dangerous situations. We can't close our eyes and pretend nothing happened. As a young woman, I feel more than concerned. What future and dignity do you offer these young women? Several ministers of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation have assumed their responsibilities as civil parties to criminal proceedings for incitement to debauchery and prostitution. Townmasters have banned such advertising on their territory. On the other hand, on your part, I didn't see any reaction. Nothing. You are Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, but also for the Fight against Poverty. As I said, this is the real problem here. You have an essential role to play. However, since you took office, your work in these areas seems to be non-existent. Madam Secretary of State, I have only one question to ask you: will you also take your responsibilities in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u30	Mr President, Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, as has been said, the Sugardating advertising campaign launched at the beginning of the week on the outskirts of the Free University of Brussels shocked public opinion as its principle is disgusting or even insidious. As my colleague has already mentioned, the portal is aimed directly at students and offers them to improve their daily lives by seeing an older and financially easier man. In addition to the gender stereotypes and caricatures of the campaign, it is clearly an operation to promote disguised prostitution. It is true that, very quickly, ministers of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, joined by associations such as the Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique or the Union des étudiants de la Communauté française, filed a criminal complaint. The Jury of Advertising Ethics was also seized. On the local side, a number of municipalities – I am thinking here in Ixelles, Brussels City or Watermael-Boitsfort – have also issued a number of ban orders. As a result, the minister-president, in turn, issued an order at the level of the Brussels Region and turned to the prosecutor's office to consider possible follow-up. A few hours ago, it was reported that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office had summoned the site manager to come and explain himself. Minister, while it is true that the law does not prohibit prostitution, the acts of soliciting and procuring are illegal. Article 380, § 1, paragraph 4, of the Criminal Code states: "Any person who, in any way, exploits the debauchery or prostitution of another person shall be punished by imprisonment from one year to five years and a fine from five hundred euros to twenty-five thousand euros." Minister, Madam Secretary of State, notwithstanding respect for the principle of separation of powers, have you decided to seize your services to examine the legality of this advertising campaign? What are the means now available to the government to combat this type of activity? More specifically for you, Madam Secretary of State, in the context of the Government's action to promote equal opportunities, what can be done to prevent this kind of drift in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, Mr Calomne, the Brussels Prosecutor's Office has confirmed that an investigation is under way. He sent a press release yesterday. I quote: "On the initiative of the Prosecutor of the King of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Brussels, a report was drawn up by X for incitement to the debauchery of a major person in a public place (Article 380a). An investigation is under way to determine whether the Rich Meet Beautiful advertising campaign results in a criminal offence. As part of this investigation, the police services of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area actively sought the car and trailer on which the advertisement is posted. During the evening and at night, the vehicle and trailer were intercepted by the police of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area. The driver and his companion have been identified. They are not known to the judiciary and have collaborated with the police. The investigation continues in order to determine who is exactly responsible for the advertising campaign concerned. The advertising tarpaulin has been seized and will be filed with the Correctional Registry." In addition to criminal qualifications, there is obviously a need to examine ethically, such publicity campaigns and practices. I can only deplore them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, I will not mention the name of the initiator of this story. He didn't show up yesterday at the meeting. On the other hand, it is not necessary to offer it an additional promotion for its concept. The media and politicians are walking on their feet to advertise their website. Yesterday, the Secretary of State of Brussels was present. My honourable colleague Els Van Hoof even insinuated that my chairman felt that fornication was normal because Mrs Homans and I did not want to take the slogan against the sugardaddy campaign. I still don't want to, let me be very clear about this. What we've seen in the last few days is the best marketing this man could imagine. The song against the campaign was the campaign. I will be very brief about this: websites like this, advertisements that offer sex for payment, dubious dating sites, they have been around for a long time. Mrs Ben Hamou, today even in The Last Hour, you can read: "Complete erotic service in Ixelles", "Secret garden opens its doors", "They make the total". Every day, you find these kinds of ads in the press. That exists... [[Objection and noise]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u33	Colleagues, stay calm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u34	That exists and occurs, every day, without me noticing a collective political outrage. They are daily in the newspapers, these girls, and new ones are constantly being sought, silently. The only big difference is perhaps that the sugardaddy campaign is aimed at young students, young women, who I assume are stronger and more powerful than foreign and often underprivileged women in the newspaper ads and behind the windows. To protect the students, a call was launched to ban the posters, as my colleague Debaets announced, but for the more regular prostitutes is advocated for the construction of a megabordeel. I find that selective indignation in favour of dubious couplers. I'm more concerned about high school students falling into the hands of loverboys. Our government, Mr Geens and I, are making money available to organizations like Payoke. As a politician, I want to be clear: this advertising campaign is in bad taste! The only question is what is legally permitted. Mr None has replied to that and that is also being investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, your answers are unworthy of a Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Poverty! As I said – but maybe you didn't listen? –, it is not about advertising for this kind of business. The essence of the problem is the precariousness of these young people. Obviously, you have nothing to do with it and you have decided to close your eyes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u36	Minister, thank you for your clear answers. I think the people's emotion deserved an answer to the question. In this regard, the strong mobilization of authorities and citizens was important. On the symbolic level, we had to position ourselves. In addition to the legal issues this raises, it is also a sensitive subject that refers to social, moral and ethical considerations. It is the responsibility of the Government to act, especially when, in addition to the promotion of sexist stereotypes, it is a barely veiled incitement to debauchery and prostitution carried out by abusing, in addition, the weakness and fragility of young girls.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u37	Mr President, I find it striking that this advertising is banned in all university cities, except in Antwerp. My reasoning is that there is no genuine indignation on the part of the Minister for Equal Opportunities at Flemish level, nor on the part of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities at federal level, while both the Criminal Code and the anti-sexism law clearly state that this is a degrading treatment of young women. I think it is the mandate of the Flemish Minister and the Federal Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities to act against it. [[Applause on the banks of the opposition, MR and CD&V]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u38	Colleagues, the volume of sound is quite high. May I ask you to listen to the questioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of CD&V, the temptation to shoot at CD&V is great again today, as unfortunately we have to do for a few years, because CD&V always calls for added value taxes, securities taxes and fair taxes to be introduced. You realize you've been sent into the reed again with a brat, so I won't throw oil on the fire. The dork of the class is well known. I would like to talk about the role of the Minister of Finance in this dossier. You all remember triumphalism on all government banks halfway this summer, at the end of July. The ministers were standing in front of the camera to bring the good news show. I have a few quotes from the Minister of Finance on the tax on securities accounts. The Summer Agreement is not a budgetary fiction. All the claims we make, whether they be securities accounts or corporate tax, are backed up by the necessary figures. The Minister of Finance is also convinced of the estimate of EUR 245 million to be charged on the securities account. Crazy language. Until last week. Last week, you said something completely different. Last week, you said suddenly, out of nowhere, that the securities tax will not stand the test of the Council of State and that this means that the yield of EUR 245 million will not be met. So you say. My first question is which Johan Van Overtveldt should we believe? Which of them is the serious finance minister we are expecting here? Is that the July one that said the 245 million will be there, or is that the one from a week and a half ago who said they won't be there? What is the serious Finance Minister who has spoken? I understand that the summit ministers met today. As far as the securities tax is concerned, they say the same thing as at the end of July. Minister, you are already a little uncomfortable, because you have already said in the press that the estimate of income is not from you, but from others. You already feel the wetness. My second question is whether you still have sufficient support within this government? You weren't supposed to be there when it came to your jurisdiction in July. You can't be here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u41	You were there today, weren't you? That surprises me even more. Today, the government says the same thing as in July. In other words, you did not listen to what you said a week and a half ago. I would like to make that clear to you, because it is incomprehensible that a finance minister should change his mind in a month and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u42	Minister, over the last few weeks there seemed to be a competition going on between the federal government and Ghent University: as much chaos as possible and as difficult to decide as possible. After nine rounds, Ghent University has elected a rector, but two months after the Summer Agreement there are still many loose ends in the federal government. That is not really a serious way of deciding on such sensitive issues. It's been two months now whether CD&V wins, or N-VA wins, or is it a tie? Our group does not care at all, the only thing that interests us is who wins and loses in society with the Summer Agreement. It is true that Johan Van Overtveldt is absolutely not the loyal minister one should expect, but that is not even the biggest problem with the Minister of Finance. The biggest problem, ladies and gentlemen, with this Minister of Finance, is that everything that still smells of fiscal justice is being sabotaged by him, even this tax on securities accounts, a mini-measures. After all, we are talking about a load of 0.15 %! It is not a tax on the middle class but a tax that is only paid if you have more than half a million euros in a securities account! If you think this is the middle class, I invite you to come out and talk to the people, because that's not the middle class. They're people with strong abilities. Mr. Secretary, when will you stop sabotaging this place? When will you do what can be expected of a finance minister, in particular to implement agreements? Finally, on the real problem, when will you finally give up your veto against fiscal justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u43	Mr President, Mr. Minister of Finance, I had originally asked the Prime Minister my question because, beyond the flouting of this security account measure, it seemed obvious to me that there was a cohesion problem in the majority. This was again noted on another subject. On all major tax files, disagreements are accumulating. This problem is becoming systematic. We have seen this very recently in the Panama Papers Committee, where one member of the majority welcomes the lifting of bank secrecy in the majority's recommendations and another immediately denies it. Comprehensive who can! It's impossible to know who's telling the truth and who's telling the wrong thing. However, they signed the same text. We see this double language, this step forward and these two steps backwards, on all subjects (the tax on financial transaction, the tax on speculation, the Cayman tax, etc.). and this is again the same scenario here with regard to the tax on securities accounts. Minister of Finance, I don't know if you were in Tomorrowland, but in any case, in the middle of the summer, you endorsed the government's agreement, when the Prime Minister took this rabbit out of his hat to hide disagreements within the majority over the idea of a capital gains tax. After approving it, you have very recently expressed doubts about this measure. You found it discriminatory with respect to the EUR 500,000 threshold and you were very dubious with respect to its performance, not ensuring the government's budget figures. And, in a few moments, you will certainly be back in line and will confirm the agreement reached this morning within the government, which reactivates the July agreement. Thus, you will give us a new illustration of this double permanent discourse where one thing is said and its opposite. The question that I want to ask you, minister, is ultimately not so much about whether there is an agreement in the government. We know that this will necessarily be a false appearance, a facade agreement. The question I want to ask you is whether, as Minister of Finance, you are taking responsibility for this mechanism. Do you confirm here before the Assembly that the measure you are preparing is indeed non-discriminatory with regard to the requirements of the Council of State and the Constitutional Court? Do you confirm that the return of 254 million euros will be achieved? This represents a quarter of the new initiatives, of the measures contained in Budget 2018. It's not nothing! Do you assume this responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u44	Mr. President, Minister, in reading the news sites, today the government is proud to have reached an agreement on the taxation of securities accounts. However, when we read the report, we feel that the mystery is getting thicker and that no real solution has been put forward by the government. First, we witnessed the polemic of the summer - one more! We know, anyway, that you are the government of polemics, supposedly the manager of public finances far more rigorous than others. That said, we begin to relativize when we discover the reality of the yield of the Cayman tax, of the tax regularizations and of so many other financial means and revenues that have been announced. We even see that the latter evaporate. You build your budget tirelessly on sand. Today, the information relates to the taxation of securities accounts. You have cast doubt, Minister, on the feasibility of the project. I would first like to know what the actual taxable basis is and how you will legally justify the amount chosen. This summer, you suggested that if we were located just below 500 000 euros, we were not subject to the tax, but we were subject to the tax from an extra euro. I await your explanation of the discriminatory aspect of this amount, because I would like to understand your legal reasoning. It also seems, according to what was announced by the website, that you only hold certain financial vehicles. Again, I would like to take your legal justification. And, above all, like many other colleagues, I would like to understand the tax's return: 250 million, according to your budget tables; 0.15% on securities accounts of more than 500 000 euros. Do me the math and it's just a rule of three. I am waiting for your answer to see if you have correctly calculated the total amount of the taxable base. It's not very complicated to realize. You will tell me if the figure indicated can justify the 254 million expected revenues. Moreover, tax tricks will probably be developed by the most inspired, in order to escape taxation. In short, it is all about improvisation and amateurism. You're just throwing powder into your eyes. Mr Minister, perhaps it is time for you to put forward serious proposals on taxation and, in particular, on tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u45	Mr President, Minister, what about the taxation of securities accounts? It is reported that agreement has been reached on the modalities in the Council of Ministers. An opinion will then be requested from the Council of State. You're saying it's probably not feasible. It wouldn't include registered shares. You yourself indicated that it might be an escape route. The question is then whether you will reach the agreed sum of 254 million. I ask this question because yesterday I heard Minister Peeters say that the Summer Agreement is one and indivisible. I therefore wonder whether the reform of our corporate tax system is at risk. After the Summer Agreement, the ministers went to Tomorrowland to celebrate. I don't know what you were celebrating, because I don't know anything about the Summer chord; I only see autumn bickering. What I see is that tomorrow isn't prepared. There's nothing at all. And where is the principle of fair taxation? That too is far from being the case. Yesterday we heard that EUR 62 billion is being secreted through Dubai. No problem at all. Your reaction to this is that this is the result of a treaty concluded under purple. Who, however, is the Minister of Finance? I thought you were. You can make a change. Will you take steps? Then there is the tax burden. The tax burden must be reduced, as you yourself admit. The World Economic Forum puts us back in the top 10 of 130 countries. You know as well as I do that the current system is unfair because it causes social disruption. After all, on the one hand, there are the evaders and on the other hand, the honest taxpayers who often pay more than 50% of their taxes. It is clear to us that those who do not want to pay taxes here must move elsewhere and those who do pay taxes must get value for money and see that everyone contributes. Minister, do you think the modalities are feasible? Do you see a danger to the reform of your corporate tax system because the agreement is one and indivisible? What steps will you take for fair taxes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u46	Mr President, Minister, I agree with you that this tax on securities accounts is badly paid. Unlike you, I share the objective of making more contributions to the holders of capital, to the annuitants, to those who have securities accounts. This is important in fiscal balance and tax justice. But I consider with you that the government's agreement is not very good. Why limit the payment of this tax to those who hold more than 500,000 euros? Why not a higher and more progressive rate to avoid threshold effects? How are you going to control, without cadastre of fortunes, who has to pay the tax? These are the questions I'm asking myself. The difference between you and me, minister, is that the minister is you! Minister, if you did not agree, why did you accept this tax on securities accounts in July to criticize it today? I guess when you give a deal, it's informed. Above all, Minister, what alternative do you propose to this 254 million euro recipe, as announced at the federal government's triumphant press conference at the end of July? Otherwise, the federal government's budget would once again be like Cinderella's carriage, which, at midnight, turns into a pumpkin. Mr. Minister of Finance, it is definitely too easy to say yes inside and then criticize outside and sabotage the decisions you have accepted. It is decidedly too easy to always find excuses for not moving towards more tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last summer the government concluded an important agreement which contains important measures to improve the competitiveness of the Belgian economy in various areas. At the same time, with a few interventions, we are strengthening social protection. In addition, we have reached agreement on the budget for next year. In order to further limit the budget deficit, measures have been taken in terms of expenditure and revenue. It is in this context that the tax on securities accounts is included. The principles were laid down last summer and the government agreed this morning on the precise modalities to be incorporated into the programme law. In doing so, we remain faithful to the principles set out and agreed this summer, and we are also trying to assess as much as possible the impact on the socio-economic fabric and certainly on SMEs. A first important principle is that the tax will apply only to securities held in a securities account. These are cashiers, funds, all bonds, listed shares and warrants. The unlisted shares are therefore excluded. A second important principle is that anyone who has more than EUR 500 000 in a securities account will pay 0.15 % on the whole sum. The government has also made decisions on more technical enforcement arrangements. The guiding principle is that the collection of this complex tax must be carried out as easily as possible for the taxpayer. As the tax is released, the taxpayer may, for example, entrust the entire collection to the bank. Agreements have been reached on other aspects, such as usufruct-related construction, nude ownership, indivisions or legal constructions. There will be consultation on this with colleagues and the industry to ensure that the tax is collected effectively, while insisting – I repeat – on simplicity for the taxpayer. This morning, the government confirmed the inclusion of €254 million in the 2018 budget for the implementation of this measure. As with other budget decisions, this return will be monitored on a permanent basis. The texts will be sent to the Council of State. This is, of course, an important test in which it is possible to assess the legal and technical difficulties that may still have to be tackled. The Summer Agreement is a very strong and balanced agreement which all the parties have approved. Therefore, I have no doubt that all the elements of the Summer Agreement must and will be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u48	You cannot possibly take yourself seriously, Minister. Your last sentences are almost the opposite of what you said a week and a half ago. Then you said that the 245 million euro revenue was highly dubious and the scheme itself discriminated against. Today, you and the rest of the government seem to have decided that all this was bullshit. In other words, you need to think about what you say as Minister of Finance, because in the future we will all have to take this with a grain of salt. You have managed, to the great regret of my group, in the meantime to succeed brilliantly in becoming the minister of fiscal injustice. Every fiscal measure over the last three years, which was intended to make the assets contribute slightly more, has brought EUR 0.0 to this day. This also applies to this measure!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I wonder why all this cinema and all this uncertainty of the past were necessary. The problem is that we see it over and over again. Everything that smells of justice is questioned and sabotaged by you. Every time, from day one to the last day, it is frighteningly clear that there will be savings in health care, savings in pensions, savings in employees. That will then be decided with one draw of pens. And then the N-VA says that it doesn't go far enough, that it has to go even further. That's the way it goes over and over. Again and again, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to savings in social security, the N-VA wants to kick down the accelerator, more, more and more. When it comes to fiscal justice, they lift the hand brake, then it is less, less and less. That's the way it goes every time. This leads to unjust agreements and to a great deal of chaos and uncertainty. You are doing everything you can, with ill-designed measures, to undermine the basis for fiscal justice. Minister of Finance, I tell you that 84 percent of the Flemings want fair contributions from the greatest assets. Either that happens before the elections or after, but in any case, the call for fiscal justice, dear colleagues of the N-VA, will not disappear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u50	Mr. Minister of Finance, I do not want to overwhelm you, because in essence, I complain to you. You have come, forced and forced, to present to us the principles and modalities of an agreement reached in the summer, and which you have in the meantime criticized. Now, you confirm that you're in line. You don't seem to be convinced of what you're saying. I do not feel that you are reassured; personally, I am not reassured at all. You were right to question the discriminatory nature of this measure, and the random nature of its performance. The rest will unfortunately confirm these fears; this tax on securities accounts will be another hole in the 2018 budget cruyère.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u51	Minister, there is a constant: you never answer the questions you are asked. In short, you could have read us your kind of press release without even holding a debate, since you knew in advance that you would not answer the questions. You do not answer specific questions about the discriminatory nature of the measures, the choice of financial vehicles to be taxed, or the performance. You don't give a single word of explanation about how you get to the 254 million. In short, it is always the same method with you: the vacuum, the vacuum, but also, at some point, the emptiness as to the seriousness of the budget you present!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I suspect you're quietly hoping that the Council of State will shoot your proposal. But then I am not entirely sure whether the Summer Agreement will be implemented. I see three problems in your policy, Minister. First of all, you often take measures, especially those of the Flemings. Just think of the increase in withholding tax to 30%, think of the fuel cards and the new policy on commercial vehicles. The Flemings and the Flemish SMEs are the victims. Secondly, it is striking that the measures to be paid by the common man exceed their purpose. They bring more money into the drawer than planned. Think of the VAT, think of the excise duties. The common man is the victim. Thirdly, also in the case of measures to prevent avoidance and evasion, we see gross overestimates of revenue, which need to be seriously adjusted afterwards. The same fate will befall this tax, I believe. Here, too, the honest taxpayer is the victim. Please, Minister, bet on a simple system, with fair taxes. Everyone has to do their part. Please let us make sure that the Flemish SMEs can make it, because they form the economic fabric of Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u53	Mr Minister, let us be clear: this is not a budget agreement! On the one hand, we do not see how, by changing one of the essential variables, you will arrive at this recipe of 254 million euros. On the other hand, you are very clearly relying on the advice of the Council of State to make a child back to the rest of the government again. It's not an agreement and it's serious! This is a new sign of your disloyalty and of your party's disloyalty towards other members of the government. This isn't the first time! The tax fight is not organised. The Cayman tax is full of loopholes and is impossible to assess. The agreement for the co-operators of ARCO is the Arlesian of this government. You practice disloyalty on a permanent basis and I do not understand the other members of the government, the MR, the CD&V, the Open Vld. What motivates them to accept this except the will to remain in power? The consequence is a poorly governed country and an uncontrolled budget, to the detriment of future generations, to the detriment of tax justice. Minister, behind your wise outsides, you are a dangerous arsonist! There's an urgent need for you to move forward in the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u54	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the debate on the tax treaties with the United Arab Emirates. I will not talk about the securities tax: the questions have been asked. My group has always considered that what was agreed in July should be implemented. I am pleased that this morning the government stated that the various elements of the agreement will be implemented. It is up to Parliament to continue to hold a parliamentary discussion on what type of shares are included, or, for example, those which are not listed. For the proceeds, EUR 250 million, we will use all kinds of agencies to do this. This morning's agreement confirms what happened in July, and I should not talk about that anymore. I regret the vote that has taken place around it. My question concerns a discussion that we have been having for a long time, including in the Panama Commission. It bothers me a little bit. In the press it is said that EUR 82 billion from Belgian companies have flowed abroad, of which EUR 62 billion to the United Arab Emirates. The tax treaty has existed since 1996, for 20 years. Minister, is this information correct? We are talking about the diamond sector and the dredging sector, and even about one company that would be responsible for 62 billion. Those are huge amounts. We have made a number of recommendations in the Panama Commission, including compliance with the anti-abuse standards provided for in the BETOs. We have asked for a thorough and independent impact assessment of these conventions. The double non-tax treaties are actually a disgrace. We should be dealing with them internationally. How does the government view that? What does she think about the recommendations of the Panama Commission, which we hope will be unanimously adopted next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u55	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, first of all allow me to clarify that the amounts you have correctly mentioned are about financial flows, and certainly not about profits, let alone taxable profits. Furthermore, I can tell you that the tax authorities are following these flows very closely to determine whether or not there are fiscal implications or tax problems. With the United Arab Emirates, Belgium has a double tax treaty, on which you have alluded, which dates back to 2003. That treaty offers Belgium little or no chance of effectively taxing profits that are low or not taxed on the spot. For the record, the Emirates, Dubai, have no corporate tax except for banks and oil companies. In the technical jargon this problem is referred to by the CFC scheme, which stands for controlled foreign company. However, all this does not alter the fact that in the meantime work is being done to give a meaningful outcome to these tax treaties through certain adjustments. This is particularly the case in the corporate tax reform, which we assume, in the context of international agreements, that entities which are subject to a very low tax of 12,5 % or less will still be able to be taxed from there. That aspect, the CFC reform, which is an international one, is therefore part of the corporate tax reform. However, I continue to strongly urge that we continue to deal with this issue at international level. This can, of course, best be done through European initiatives, in which Belgium has already been a precursor in a number of areas, or through the OECD. The problem of taxing or not being taxed remains an international one, and we must therefore tackle it at that level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Next week we will have the recommendations of the Panama Commission. Texts have been tabled by the majority and we also have a report from the experts. There are important paragraphs that are similar. I believe that it is Parliament's will that international initiatives should be taken in order to combat significantly the avoidance of tax fraud. Of course, we are not talking about 62 billion as in the financial flows, but we are talking about very important amounts. Hopefully we will be able to reach a consensus in committee next week on the recommendations for government implementation. We must always be optimistic and hope. I do not think there is really any discussion in Parliament in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u57	Mr President, Minister, my question will be somewhat different in substance from the question I gave you in committee and for which you will give me a written answer. The question was actually addressed to Minister Kris Peeters, who sent you here. Nevertheless, I thank you for being here. Minister, in the European press, the last few days have again been very much about the compulsory indication of origin. If a country wishes to introduce the relevant system, it must fulfil three conditions. The European Commission shall assess this matter and may or may not give its consent thereafter. This must have a positive impact on public health. The regulation must be good for the consumer or it must combat fraud. If this is not the case, the European Commission cannot give its consent. After all, this is a very protectionist measure, which is very detrimental to other countries or our country. That's the theory. What happens in practice? In the run-up to the national elections and in an attempt to spawn its dairy farmers, the French Government decided to introduce a compulsory indication of origin for its own milk products, hoping that the French would buy and consume more of their own products and that production would increase among French farmers. However, the two most powerful departments of the European Commission, which are Internal Market and Competition, therefore I also asked my questions to Kris Peeters, who disagreed with that decision. They declared the French labels illegal. Labels would also jeopardise the internal market. These are fundamental objections. Nevertheless, France got its way. The European Commission gave its approval and gave the green light to this preferential treatment. According to the European Treaties, is it not the responsibility of the European Commission to ensure that European law is observed? She's actually violating her own treaties. This is, first and foremost, very damaging for our dairy farmers. Our exports to France decreased by 17% in 2016 compared to 2015. Your predecessor, Minister Borsus, requested an impact study on this. It is clear that the problem transcends agriculture. It is a dangerous precedent in favour of the re-location of the European internal market. If the Commission were to approve the scheme, who would stop other countries from applying for the same scheme? In the meantime, Spain, Portugal and Lithuania are also asking parties. This will not help an open, small economy like ours. Your predecessor was very aware of that. This is damaging to our country, our entrepreneurs and our farmers. Minister, what further steps are you going to take? Is there a result of the impact study yet? What about the European Commission's liability? How do we stop the downward spiral of our dairy exports?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Gantois, the national systems for compulsory labelling of food origin have for several years been causing a deep gap at the table of the European Council. Some Member States, including France, have received the tacit agreement of the European Commission to introduce mandatory origin labelling since 1 January 2017. Our National Bank's first figures indicate a sharp decline in exports of some products to France since this summer. This is particularly the case for milk and dairy products. The Belgian milk sector also saw a decrease in its commercial transactions to 17%. Belgium is therefore concerned that the many national initiatives have a negative impact on the internal market. That is why my predecessor placed this item on the agenda of the European Agriculture Council on 17 July last. The European Commission was asked to assess the impact of this type of measure on the internal markets and on prices paid by consumers. At that Council, Belgium recalled that it called for the retention of voluntary labelling of the origin of products in order to avoid disruption of the internal market. The Belgian position was supported by several Member States, including Luxembourg, Germany, Denmark and the Czech Republic. In conclusion, the European Commissioner for Food Safety stated that Andriukaitis was open to that evaluation. He wanted to wait for the introduction of the new national legislation which will be adopted by other Member States and which will be similar to French legislation. Mrs Gantois, I will be particularly attentive to the follow-up. I also confirm that I will take the same position in this matter as my predecessor. I intend to ask the Commissioner about the deadlines he needs to submit that report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u59	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I think we're on the same page. We are indeed waiting for the results of the impact study. This issue must be addressed at European level on a permanent basis. Europe is and is there for all its Member States. Regulation à la tête du client is not on the agenda. You said that other countries share our position. I will ask Minister Peeters about this, because this problem affects our entire economy. We believe that the European Commission has overplayed its hand. Her liability is compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Franken, you have taken the initiative to organise the arrival on our territory of a migrant identification mission, composed of Sudanese officials who have come specifically from this torturer country to screen their compatriots who are fleeing the same dictatorship. You are supported by your entire government. The Prime Minister shouted loud and clear on Tuesday in committee. Mr Franken, in addition to your nauseating verbal provocations, comes this collaboration. After quoting Hervé Hasquin last week, allow me today to greet my colleague Van Rompuy. Finally, there are voices that rise in this majority to condemn your disgusting words but also against your presence in this government. I agree with you, Mr Van Rompuy, how long will this man be tolerated in this delicate and humanitarian role in this government? Mr Franken, I said it on behalf of the PS last week in your absence and I would like to repeat it to you today, if you look at me anyway. You don't have any more responsibility. You no longer have the dignity to be in a government! Mr Franken, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, as we know, the situation is extremely complicated. You don't want a Calais bis, either. But stop making it seem that on the one hand, there are lax leftists, right-of-the-hommists and on the other hand, a responsible and humane government! Your immigration policy is not human and is even less legal. Since last week, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior have been hearing that all procedures are respected, that there is no violation of international conventions, that we respect the law, just the law! Here again, I would like to welcome a colleague from the majority who courageously opposes this government's policy and reminds her that asylum seekers are not being sent back to a country such as Sudan. Mrs Lanjri, thank you for reminding us of this fact and for pleading for an exception in Dublin! But Mr Franken, there are not only some members of your majority who deconstruct your arguments and your human policy and firm and law-abiding, since an urgent ruling by the Council for the Litigation of Foreigners (CCE) on a Sudanese case denounces the lightness with which our country dared to deal with such a case. So here are my two questions. The CEC ruling shows that the guarantees advanced are not applied with the necessary rigour when dealing with a regime whose President is being prosecuted by the International Criminal Court. Do you think that the circumstances are likely to create trust between migrants and the authorities in the search for humane and balanced solutions? What is the content of the September 22 note? For the same purpose, do you not think that the suspension of Dublin referrals to France and Italy would be a constructive measure for the management of Sudanese cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez, in fact, the Council for the Litigation of Foreigners (CCE) suspended an order to leave the territory which was issued to one of the Sudanese arrested at Maximilian Park. I want to clarify that this is a person who applied for asylum in France before coming to Belgium, which she left without waiting for the answer to her request. Despite the assistance of a pro deo lawyer in the closed centre, this person declined the introduction of a new asylum application in Belgium. The intention of my administration was therefore to move this person, not to Sudan but to France, of course, the country responsible for examining his asylum application under the Dublin Regulation. I would like to stress here before you that my administration will always respect our commitments under the Refugee Convention as well as under the European Convention on Human Rights. This implies that no one who has an asylum procedure in progress, either in Belgium or in another Member State of the European Union, will be repatriated to his country of origin. Never! With regard to the repatriation of illegals to the Sudan, we will continue to organise repatriations, as is already the case for 13 other EU Member States. Sweden, for example, a country with a red-green government, has already repatriated fifteen Sudanese last year. From 2014 to 2016, France, under the PS, repatriated more than 200 Sudanese. Each of these repatriations was carried out with the collaboration of the Sudanese authorities, which also implies the identification in France of the persons concerned by Sudanese officials. Under the PS! Ladies and gentlemen, our neighbouring countries are taking on their responsibilities in this regard. We have to take ours. I repeat once and for all, our country will not become a refuge for those who despise our laws and opt for an illegal stay! Persons without the right of residence who do not want to apply for asylum in Belgium or who have been refused their application must return: voluntary return if possible but forced if necessary. Final point!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u62	Mr President, Mr Franken, I know that you are bored, but I am a Belgian parliamentarian and, although I am interested in what is happening elsewhere, today I am asking a member of the Belgian Government, just as I questioned the Prime Minister on Tuesday. I am given information on practices in other countries, but that is not the answer I wanted to hear. Again, the message is launched, that is, "circle, there is nothing to see and everything is fine"! I recall that you have taken the initiative to bring in people who have blood on their hands, torture, murder, torture and murder. We are told that the procedures are being followed. Yet the EAC tells us the opposite. I will conclude my speech by quoting a sentence from the German writer Caroline Hemtt: "Hate is what makes man invisible to man." I am sad to see that because of you, we are still a little more transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u63	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the transport sector is a very sensitive sector of fraud, with a lot of cross-border social fraud, which is difficult to control. Yesterday, in the newspaper, you launched your idea of data from ANPR cameras in and to link the port of Antwerp to the dates of the mileage tax, in order to achieve more targeted controls and a more targeted fight against social fraud. This seems to me to be a very interesting piste, but I cannot get rid of the impression, if I am mistaken, you will tell me in a moment that there are still some angels to this story. There are still some pitfalls on the path. First of all, Mr Secretary of State, the project we were able to read yesterday is limited to the Antwerp context. If it is positively evolved, this project can be rolled out throughout the territory. In that case, I believe, a number of possible obstacles need to be taken into account. If I am not mistaken, the data of the ANPR cameras are managed by several administrators. We will therefore have to link the data. Have you thought about that? Probably. Have you already taken steps to find out whether it is feasible to link the data to the dates of the mileage charge? Can this be dealt with purely at federal level? Has there been any consultation with the region's regions on this issue, if necessary? If so, what is the result? Is it necessary to amend federal or regional legislation, or at both levels? Is this link possible, given that there is still a need to consider the privacy of the mileage tax data? Quid with European legislation in this area? Finally, quid with the timing of the Antwerp project and the possible rollout in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u64	Mr President, Mr Raskin, you know that we have drawn up a plan for fair competition for the transport sector, which literally states that we in the regions will test the extent to which new technologies such as ANPR cameras and the taking into account of ViaPass can be used to detect social dumping. At the time of my arrival I immediately contacted Ministers Jambon and Weyts to consult and see how this could be put into practice. Of course, my second cap, namely that of privacy, must also be taken into account. In this area, too, we must ensure the right legal framework for retention periods, finality and access modalities. The moment I read that a new camera network was rolled out around the port in Antwerp, which is important to guarantee the security of the port of Antwerp, I thought it would be useful to see how these data could be linked. Quite a few trucks from abroad stop or leave in our ports. It is therefore important to be able to use that data. With this data, we can also be much more focused and use our resources much more focused. In this way we can tackle the serious problems you rightly point out, namely social dumping in the transport sector. Your partymates Jambon and Weyts are in favour. So all noses are in the same direction. It is now time to act and take action. I am counting on them to do so in no time, so that together we can tackle social dumping in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, this is a clear answer. You once again outline the context with the plan for fair competition. Apparently, we've already had a meeting. You have an eye for the use of new technologies. This is also an important balancing exercise in the field of privacy that you will follow as competent Secretary of State. The ANPR cameras are already being used today to prevent different forms of fraud. I am thinking of driving with uninsured vehicles or unpaid traffic taxes. I think it might be interesting to use this technique in the fight against social fraud. Once all the angels have been removed, this seems absolutely an interesting slope in a more efficient control of social fraud. We will follow this story, along with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u66	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, many falsehoods are told by the opponents about the flexi-jobs. That's why it might be important to do four factchecks on the flexi-jobs. First of all, anyone who works four-fifths can earn free of tax in the catering industry. They're not mini-jobs. Secondly, the system is very successful. More than 25 000 people have flexi jobs in the catering industry. Blackwork turned white. Thirdly, it is not an undermining of social security. The employer pays employers' contributions at 25% and the employee builds up social rights. Fourthly, it is constitutional, to the regret of whom it envies. That constitutionality makes the gate open to its expansion. So can you give us an update, Mr Secretary of State? Can you also tell me when the federal government will come to Parliament to extend enlargement to other sectors, but also to pensioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u67	Mrs Lijnen, there is a happy man before you, because we have indeed been informed that the Constitutional Court has wiped out all the objections that trade unions had to the flexi-jobs. This means that the flexi jobs have legal certainty, that the more than 28 000 people who are doing a flexi job today can sleep on their two ears and continue to work. So the catering people who employ flexi-jobbers can continue quietly. You are also right to say that it opens the door to enlargement. I have always advocated enlargement for pensioners. The problems with teachers had to be addressed. We can now expand to new sectors. The retail trade, the bakers, the butchers, the department stores, the hairdressers can now also use the flexi-jobs, as the government gave the green light this morning to allow the expansion from 1 January 2018. I think this is only good news for people who do a flexi job, for people who like to earn something extra, to pay off their house faster, to go on vacation. That is very good news, also for traders who can better absorb peaks and valleys. Today in the catering industry, soon in many other sectors. We can only be happy about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u68	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I do believe that this security was very important for the hospitality sector. We cannot wait for enlargement to be dealt with in Parliament. We look forward to 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u69	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in March – a little more than six months ago – you pointed out in plenary session the serious malfunctions in the software of the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities, which had caused very serious delays in the administration. You insisted on the absolute priority of this case. I have a disabled brother, and my experience shows how the backlog continues to increase the efficiency of the service. This concerns requests from the public, parking cards, payments, etc. However, I know that you have given a big necklace since you have strengthened the personnel service (10 people at the time and we are talking about 38 people today). I know that helping people with disabilities is a complex matter, but they are vulnerable people who really need this support service. Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of the delay? How will you absorb it, if it is not yet done, and within what time frame? How much do you estimate the cost of this malfunction since we had to hire additional staff? Do you have a plan to ensure that services are effective for users when the cruising pace is reached? You pointed out that the company Capgemini was the designer of this new software. Are you considering measures to pass a portion of the cost on to this company?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u70	Madam de Coster, I fully share your concern. I can assure you that I am making every effort, in collaboration with the Disability Branch, to restore the processing of applications as quickly as possible. Due to the problems with the software Curam from Capgemini, which Mrs Onkelinx had still ordered, there were very long waiting times for new applications. That's why I decided to go back to the old Tetra system. I have done so for the four years to come, for an amount of EUR 4.5 million. As you know, there were no calls from the DG Persons with Disabilities in March. That is the case now. The average maturity is declining. I have also made funds available to recruit 38 new staff, 23 of whom have already been recruited. The remaining persons are still to be recruited. An increase in the number of answered calls and files can therefore be expected in the following months. As for the software developer Capgemini, I have ordered an independent audit, which will investigate whether mistakes have been made. I will get the audit conclusions at the end of December and then I will take the necessary measures to see how we can recover the money from Capgemini.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u71	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to know that you have taken steps. Indeed, this situation will leave important traces, and especially a loss of confidence on the part of users. Every effort must be made to ensure that this department is effective. I will continue to be interested in the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u72	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u73	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2017, I also propose that you consider the legislative proposal (Mrs Anne Dedry, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Evita Willaert) to prohibit any discrimination in relation to breast-feeding, No. 2678/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u74	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2017, I also propose that you take into consideration: the bill (Ms Anne Dedry, Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert) to prohibit any discrimination related to breastfeeding, No. 2678/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u75	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-28-54-plenair-ip185x.u76	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 5 October 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 5 October 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 5 October 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 5 October 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
