ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u1	I suggest we start our auditions. Normally, six people were being considered today for this burn out hearing. Unfortunately, we only have two interlocutors because four people have quit. Mrs Van Gramberen and Mrs Smet, I do not know which of you two wishes to begin. Madame Van Grammberen? Please, you have the floor, ma'am. And thank you again for your presence here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the invitation. It is certainly a pleasure to go into that. I would like to ask if the slides can be projected, because there is also a video attached to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u3	This is what we are trying to do at the moment, but obviously there is a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u4	Can the slides be printed so that the committee members can follow more easily?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u5	If you have them, we can make photocopies and distribute them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u6	I only have them on stick. There's a lot of numbers on those slides, too. I wasn't going to explain all those numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u7	Or we'll suspend ten minutes, so long as we can do it. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u8	Yes. That'll make it a little more enjoyable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u9	Does it suit everyone that we suspend ten minutes, which makes it possible to make copies of the different slides and that each of the members present has the numbers? I assume that the most important thing is the comments of the figures and therefore having them in front of me seems important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u10	Yeah, that's a lot better already. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u11	We're hanging for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u12	That's it. I'm sorry about that little setback. Mrs Van Gramberen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am glad that the technical side of the matter is in order, because that is going to make things easier. I understand we've accepted your invitation with two of us for the time being. As an intro, I took the liberty of showing some evolutions regarding burn-out and psychic stress. Who are we? We are Flanders Synergy, an innovation platform. We are a bridge between science and practice. By looking at work content and work organisation in a creative, innovative way, we are trying to create imaginative examples, examples of meaningful work, in resilient, high-performance organisations. Several members of the committee - I think one and a half years ago - have been introduced to some of the examples we created. I think there is a clear link between the debate today and the debate on burn-out. That link or that key is in a very clever job. We dream that meaningful work on a very large scale, in very different sectors and for everyone is within reach. What's meaningful work? For us, this is meaningful work and active work. When we say "active work" we are immediately at an important building block: insight into the work stress/burn-out problem. Active work is not something we have invented, as "synergists," as "synergists." It's not a new insight. It is Professor Karasek, who in 1979 added an important insight to the emergence of stress and burn-out. It's called the Job Demand Control Model. You could say that, if the mathematicians have Pythagoras's theorem for inspiration, we then have Professor Karasek and his Job Demand-Control Model as inspiration for that meaningful, active work. What does the Job Demand Control Model say? That's actually relatively simple. The task requirements must be in balance with the possibilities of regulation. If these task requirements and possibilities of regulation are in balance, then jobs are created in which they are taught. Then there are also jobs in which work stress risks are manageable. How are you supposed to imagine that? Task requirements relate to the complexity and unpredictability of jobs, as well as the extent to which they are emotionally burdensome. That's one side. On the other hand, there are possibilities for regulation, which must enable people to cope with these job demands. These possibilities of regulation can be different: they can be autonomy, support from colleagues, but also support from executives. That may seem very simple. On the basis of two examples, I will also show some of the complexity. In the debate on burn-out, people are soon told to gain more autonomy. Yes, autonomy is a useful resource, but not the only one. For example, a care professional who works in a palliative department will come into contact with people who die. That's emotionally very incriminating work. In that case, autonomy is not a resource. In that case, however, we need the support of fellow Members. In other words, resources must be related to the job requirements of a particular type of job. So we really need to find a proper balance in this. That's a balancing exercise. In the examples I will quote, this will all become a little more concrete and you will find that these resources will sometimes not be enough. Even if all these resources are present, we can come to the conclusion that the task requirements are too high, in other words that we need to make them less complex. So that's how we're gonna get to work on that. I'm going to try to point out an important insight of Karasek by means of an equation. The social debate often asks the following question: Is burn-out related to an individual, i.e. a personal characteristic, or to bring it back to the company and the work organisation of that company? I would like to make the analogy between this model and road safety. When it comes to road safety, we agree that roads can really be studied and that roads are safe or unsafe. That is also why the Flemish government, for example, has invested heavily in the analysis of roads. Are they safe or not? This can be derived from road accidents and the like. Then there is investment in safe roads. Does that mean that there will be no more accidents, that there will be no more casualties on those safe roads? No, it is not, but the risk derivatives were significantly reduced. In the same way, we should look at this model. So if we get to work on this, it does not mean that there will be no more stress or burn-out in these corporate contexts, but we will have reduced the risk considerably. We are also able to predict, based on that model and those insights, when there is an increased risk of stress. That's basic insight. First, I'm gonna take you into some numbers and definitions, in this case about what Karasek calls stress and burn-out. In this respect, I found the work of the Innovation and Labour Foundation interesting, which has done an analysis of people who are still at work, who, for the sake of clarity, do not yet burn-out, but indicate that they are psychologically tired, either acute or simply psychologically tired. I think this continuum shows that work stress can be good, but also that good, healthy stress can turn into something unhealthy. That's what happens when people don't recover from it, when they don't recover from it anymore. That is a continuum, that is not a button that is turned on and off. This is a continuum that will be built over a longer period of time. I'm just giving this to you for information, because I find this interesting myself. I will not go into it further, because we are not experts in burn-out for the sake of clarity. Above all, we are trying to reduce stress in company contexts. However, I wanted to give this definition, because it seemed rather clear to me. The KU Leuven has conducted a study to adapt the view on burn-out to the most recent insights. It concludes that burn-out is an overload at work, but often accompanied by personal vulnerability. Burn-out is, in that case, a form of exhaustion, a loss of control, which is often accompanied by a form of depressive mood, as it is called. I give this definition because you see at the bottom what the link is to what we do. Stress is actually often seen as a symptom, as a predictor, also of a burn-out. Stress is not necessarily unhealthy, but it can become unhealthy if people do not recover from it. So that's the link. That's why I'm happy to give you those references. Then I'm going to take a look at the evolution of stress and mental fatigue in work contexts. The Flemish social partners have invested in a so-called definition of workable work. I'm just gonna go back there and take you guys a little bit on that path, too. Figures from January 2017, so fresh from the press, show that the quality of the work has decreased slightly in Flanders. At present 51% of people say that their work is workable. The social partners themselves say that there are four elements that make work workable. If you are not mentally tired, if you feel involved, if you have a good combination of work and family and if you have learning opportunities, you have workable work. One in two Flemings has workable work. The critical note is that we have fallen back to the level before 2004. We were slowly building up workable work, but the latest measurement shows a sharp decrease that is actually significant compared to 2004. I give these figures because the reason why we see this decline is related to today's theme. This has to do with the fact that employees in Flanders say significantly more to be psychologically tired at the last measurement: 34.2 % is psychologically tired. This is significantly more than in 2013 and significantly more than in 2004. The group that is psychologically acutely problematically tired is also growing. According to the foundation, these are people who actually say of themselves: "I still work, I'm not at home, but I actually don't function properly." I can't concentrate either on work or outside. I do not therefore function in the way I would like it to be. This acute, problematic fatigue is increasing. One thing is beyond me. I think it is also one of the reasons why this Federal Parliamentary Committee is taking this initiative. For the sake of clarity, this is Flemish figures, but should they be translated into Belgium, 12.3% would be equivalent to nearly 550 000 people who are acutely problematically tired. They're in a danger zone. Their numbers are increasing. That's not a good move. The fact that this committee pays attention to this will, in my view, also greatly appreciate the outside world. I wanted to show you these numbers, but I'm not going to go over them in detail. I just attached them so you can take a look at them quietly. We can already see that there is no difference between mental fatigue in men and women. However, there is some difference according to age and the profession. For example, management and executives suffer more from acute fatigue than other occupational groups. An important new feature of these figures is that, in the meantime, 14% of the newly-skilled workers suffer from acute problematic fatigue. As you can see, in three other professions, namely short-term, skilled and executive staff, this fatigue is increasing. There is no increase at management and executive level. An exception, therefore, is the short-time skilled workers. Surely that is a worrying evolution. You can also see that there are differences between sectors. Not so much between the secondary, tertiary and quarter sectors, at least not significant. You can see, for example, that the financial sector and business services are sectors in which this work stress is really high and where mental fatigue is also high. When we look at the explanation for acute mental fatigue, we see, for example, that people who say they have a high workload are six times more likely to experience acute mental fatigue. People who are emotionally burdened are 2.68 times more likely to be mentally tired. Things such as lack of variety, lack of autonomy, lack of support by managers and poor working conditions are also factors related to the content and organisation of work and which at least partly explain why people are more acutely mentally tired. That is absolutely not a good evolution. If you were to ask me what the explanation is, I would answer that I see two. However, that is a zero hypothesis. A first element has to do with the outside world. It is said that the outside world is "VOCA": volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous. For the sake of fairness, whether you are in an educational organisation or in a care institution or in an industrial company, which has increased complexity, that environment has become much less predictable. I'm gonna show you a short movie from the industry later. So I am free now to take an example from care, that of a large home care organisation, which some of you have also visited. There are more elderly people today. People live longer, which is good in itself. People stay home longer. They get a much more complex care. The problem of care also requires a multidisciplinary approach. So the work of the home nurse becomes more complex. Also in the residential care centres care becomes more complex. Older people often stay there less long, the average duration of stay is two to three years. People admitted to residential care centres are often elderly people in need of heavy care. In other words, in a few years' time, not from today to tomorrow, complexity has increased in these different contexts. We notice that with the factor "T" quality "T" for work measurements. We find that people simply carry out complex work more often. Please, let's not make that a problem either. If you have complex work, it offers learning opportunities. However, there is one condition, and that is that the way you organized the work must also be adapted. So that's the zero hypothesis, so to speak. The environment has become more complex, business organisations have not adapted sufficiently and this results in increased stress complaints and increased mental fatigue, resulting in an increased number of people with burn-out. Is this how it's supposed to be? Is there any other way? I'd like to give you an example from Koppen. I think it was in the autumn of last year that employees of this program are going to be filming in one of the companies where we did a try-out. I'd like to show you that video.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u14	The video shows a recognizable food company. What remains, hopefully, is that this is a complex problem. In this case it is the team leader who is under enormous workload. He's about to throw the towel in the ring. However, the global organisation has a new CEO, who took over the company six years ago and is very ambitious. She wants to internationalize and succeeds in doing so. She manages to win additional contracts. This also increases employment and production. In fact, that is a very nice challenge. However, she soon finds that the new business model that she has developed and the new markets that she is emerging are starting to burst out of her entire organization. This is reflected by the team leader, who is under high pressure. What happens then is that not only the work of the team leader is being considered, but that the entire production process is being mapped out. It looks at the role of the team leader and at what processes he has to intervene in. Apparently, the team leader should include no less than 67 tasks in that entire production process. We then started thinking, together with this chocolate company, together with the team leader and with the team. We wanted to see how we could make the work more attractive to everyone. We have started to look at the executive work, the preparatory tasks and the quality assurance tasks. Those tasks were completely redistributed to the team. The result is that the team leader finds his work nice and manageable again. He has delegated a number of tasks, in good, harmonious packages, including to the production workers. Those production workers first had short-term work and were bound to certain posts. They have much more varied work now. They too will win. A third element is that the food sector has to do with peaks and declines. You can imagine that Orangettes will do better during the Christmas period and around Easter. Sometimes temporary forces need to be deployed. I think that the manager can testify that it is now much easier to respond to new questions and respond to new tasks, because people are now much more employable. So in this story, if you look at that shell, it was invested both in employees as well as in teamwork and in a new business model. This also means that, to give an example, you should not ask that team leader to take a course in mindfulness, ride a bike or eat a piece of fruit, so to speak. These are all relevant and good things, for the sake of clarity, but they would not have removed the roots of the team leader's problem. In this case, thinking about the organisation of work, the function and the team at organisational level is a necessary step. Maybe not enough, but it's necessary. If you look at the examples that are being developed and today's examples, the biggest gap and the biggest challenge today is that one still looks a little too much at the individual when it comes to removing mental fatigue and avoiding burn-out. The individual is important. Reintegration is important. It's an en-and-story. However, a little too little attention is paid to the whole context, both the so-called job crafting, the insights from the Karasek model, as well as team crafting, the review of tasks. This has happened within the company Duva: setting targets, reviewing responsibilities, redefining roles. Those are steps that I think are not being taken enough to remove this psychosocial burden. As far as the organisational model is concerned, Duva, because it is a very small organisation with only twenty employees, was not the best example I could take. It doesn't have different departments. The MEPs who participated in the work visit will recognize at least one of these ladies from the White Yellow Cross. The White-Yellow Cross is an example of an organisation in which the various departments were questioned. We're going to make the application for the service, the intakes, the provision of care services, the planning of care services, the quality of care services, etc. do not split up into different departments. No, we're gonna take it together and integrate it. In other words, this organisation has gone so far as to create a completely new organizational design. Thanks to this new organizational design, the nurses in question have found a complex job, but with the right balance between complexity and control possibilities. Another example. This lady must be familiar with some of them. She also gave a testimony during the work visit. This example comes from a call center. Here too, it was said at organizational level that the organisation should be questioned in order to provide more quality work. What we saw happening there is that for the call center employees a lot of complexity was removed. They don't all answer all the questions anymore. Some now answer the questions of care, others answer the technical questions. At the same time, however, variation and complexity were added: call center employees no longer only deal with telephone questions but also have contact with customers. This is an essential intervention in the content of work and in the organization of work, so that people can get a context in which they can learn and where the workload is manageable. If you ask me now, also looking at the disturbing figures on psychological fatigue and burn-out, at the gap in the larger debate, that is, as far as I am concerned, the integral effect. Attention should be paid not only to the individual but also to the level of business organisation. At the level of the business organisation, the organisation and the content of the work must be included as a scope. The question that now arises, of course, is 'what now?'. I don't like being a prophet of doom, but if we don't manage to change that outside world now, we'll see the number of burnouts rise even more. The most recent figures on mental and acute fatigue also show this. In that respect, I do not think we are at the peak yet, if we do not manage to thoroughly revisit these corporate contexts. This requires that we strengthen that individual approach, which is valuable for clarity, with a preventive approach to business organisation. I myself have thought about what you, as Members of this House, can do about it. I must disappoint you. I would be happy to say: "Write a bill in the afternoon and the burning-out problem will be resolved." I wish it were that simple, but it's not. There is good legislation. The psychosocial legislation may be susceptible to some marginal adjustment. There is not the greatest challenge. We do not need new legislation. There is a need for action. As far as I am concerned, this action may be ambitious and very positive. We don't have to leave from burn-out. We can start from the quality of work to mobilize. But there's got to be action. When I look abroad, I see that, for example, the government and the social partners in Germany are launching a major programme called "Zukunft der Arbeitswerk". The Finnish government is launching a major workplace innovation program. The Danish government has taken a legislative initiative to demonstrate that they have good legislation on psychosocial well-being, but that they want the government and the social partners to implement it. For example, the Danes have set themselves the goal of reducing short-term work by 50%. They managed to reduce this by 27% two to two and a half years later. So it's possible. The legislation is a good coat rack, but action must be taken. For me, this must be an action inspired by business networks, in other words by doers, in cooperation with sectoral partners. These networks must also be very action-oriented, well-framed by scientific institutions and by prevention services. There is also a need to build up knowledge about how this balance is achieved, with attention being paid to the individual and to business organisation. Let the networks that exist develop a vision that will allow for a social breakthrough. Those aren't allowed to remain islands. We must have the courage to halve that psychological fatigue, especially acute problematic fatigue, as a society. Let's convert the debilitating jobs. It's about 20% of the jobs in Flanders. Let's convert those into active jobs. I think this is possible in different contexts. However, it calls for the mobilisation of researchers, companies, politicians and social partners. What I wish you in the Federal Parliament is that each of us will be architects in his or her own way. There's nothing to be afraid of. It's not about a new profession. It is a plea for each of us to create the will, where each of us has the opportunity to do so, in the organisations in which we operate, and thus set the example ourselves. Mr. Chairman. That's it, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Van Gramberen. I suggest that we move on to Mrs Smet's presentation before we discuss any issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u16	Good afternoon everyone and thank you for the invitation. I won't talk so much about burn-out. I will talk in particular about a whole process that we have taken at Janssens Pharmaceutica in an attempt to respond to many of the questions and challenges we face, because I think burn-out is one of so many challenges. What are the challenges facing us, and we thought a few years ago that we should respond to them? Janssens Pharmaceutica is a company with about 4 600 employees in Belgium and belongs to the Johnson & Johnson group, an American company. What is very specific about us is that we actually have a very wide range of employees. We have employees who are in top science, but we also have employees who are operators, who make the pharmaceutical products. We have salesmen, we have support services. We have a huge diversity of employees in one place. We actually saw at a certain point that a lot of questions arose in the company, including in our management. One of the phenomena is the aging of our population. Our average age is 42 years and rising. How are we supposed to deal with that? It is a population of different generations, who also have their own questions and needs about their careers, how they want to complete their careers. We also have, like any other organization, an increasing number of long-term sick. We're seeing an increase in burn-out. We are actually in the same context as other companies, so we are struggling with the same problems. We were looking for a handle, we were looking for an inspiring project, so that we could take both the individual and the company on a way to respond to these different challenges. We then went looking in the outside world, because we didn't think we should find out for ourselves. We ended up with the model "The house of working power', a model developed by a Finnish pro, Ilmarinen. It has been in existence for several years and is also being used very actively in a number of countries. In the Netherlands and in Germany there are good examples of this. That model is presented as a house. I think everyone's got a thing for a house. It is also a very easy to explain concept. In that house, the basis is health. No one will dispute that. The next floor is that of competences and talents. Then follows the deepening of the values. Then there is the deepening of work: how the work is organized, how the work is completed. I also refer to the story that Mieke just brought. The combination of these things is expressed by the roof, the working power of people, the desire, the power and the energy to work. There is also a balcony on, because that balcony is the link to the outside world. After all, the social network, the social environment, the home of people will also have an impact on their working capacity. I heard Ilmarinen in Brussels in September. He also modified his model. He's got a 2.0 model now. He has added a number of elements such as social media, which we all have to deal with and which also have an impact on working capacity, such as restructuring and globalisation. All these things are very recognizable for a company. We thought we should get to work on that model. We have given it a bit of our own look and feel. It's a bit of a house of ours, the Janssenhuis of working power. All the elements mentioned above are also in our house. The metaphor is extremely powerful and very easy to bring into a company. Everyone understands them. That house has to be solid. One can go a long way in that. One can also really say that this house needs to be renovated at certain times. In another phase of your life, your rooms will be refilled. If the kids are out of the house, maybe people will start thinking about that house differently. One must own a piece of that house. One can take architects and contractors under the arm to build a house, but one must also think about it. In this way we try to build a bridge between individual and organization. This individual also needs to take on some ownership and think about his own career.What does one want, where does one want to go, what are the bottlenecks? Like the organisation, who also needs to think about how the work is organized and has responsibility for the work organisation and for sickening or workable jobs. Ilmarinen himself has indicated that analyses show that in particular the deepening of work and values have the most impact on the working capacity. It is mainly about the interplay between work and values. How is the work organized? How meaningful is it? How workable is work? Is there a good match to people's values? I also believe that talents and health are at the root of this. In that model, the holistic approach is particularly charming and effective. How did we launch that into our company? Well, we have done this in an innovative way, from the bottom up. We call that a viral change. Our company is familiar with viruses and bacteria and we really want to bring about a viral change from below. We've been working with ambassadors. We now have about 150 ambassadors on the home of work capital. They have developed all kinds of tools to make that house live in the organization. So that house is a guide to a career interview. Career interviews in companies are necessary and important. For the happy few, for people who fill a higher job and think about their career, a career interview is very simple. However, what does it mean, for example, for an operator to have a career interview? The house gives a bit of a grip for that. There are all kinds of tools around, including a card game, which was developed in the Netherlands, with very simple questions. A career interview can just be a walk through that house, with the following questions. What about my resilience and my health? Can I use my talents? What about the organization of my work? I also mention the points raised by Mieke van Grammberen. Does my work make sense? Can I get my work done? What about my values? In fact, people can translate those questions very easily, allowing them to have a career interview. All kinds of other tools have been developed, really to make that house visible, to bring it back to life and to make sure that people get to work with it. What matters to me is that we will all work from the same philosophy in this way. Like Johnson and Johnson, Janssen was a company that took great care of his employees and many initiatives were already in place. People sometimes felt they didn't know exactly what to focus on in that company, whether they had to participate in corporate social responsibility, diversity or work on other issues. The metaphor of the house helps to make people think about what's important to them, what they want to do. In this sense, it is also a canvas to make a link between all kinds of initiatives offered by a company as building blocks around working capacity. I've listed some of them. I'll start with health. There is a health center, a fitness center, in which many people participate. We have an education in energy, energy for performance in life. It is an education of our parent company, but 2 400 people have already participated in it in Belgium. We have a Talent Fit Center, in which we support people to be mobile in their careers, to dare to think about that career, to do that job crafting that Mrs Van Grammberen just mentioned. We have a value-driven company and work around diversity and inclusion. People can work in support of that. The floor around work is, of course, very important. We are committed to flexible work, both in terms of location and time, and we have pilot projects within our company, where we are committed to the innovative work organisation, which Mrs Van Grammberen also mentioned and for which we work closely with Flanders Synergy to put that into practice. All these floors can be filled in in a certain way. That's the side of the organization, but there's also the side of the employee. I'd like to zoom in on one of those building blocks we developed inside the company. We call that the Talent Fit Center. The Talent Fit Center is actually a kind of internal career cell. Perhaps you are wondering whether we are still working on the subject of burn-out. I think so. Because what we do is actually within the company offer a piece of career support to people who might want to do something else, maybe get tired and think about it, do something about it and move around in this organization. And of course we have the luxury of having many different types of jobs, having many possibilities, in which we can make people move and give them different perspectives. I brought you some numbers. The Talent Fit Center started three years ago. In the meantime 184 people have come knocking on their own initiative, saying that they want to dwell on their jobs and careers. We have also supported 74 people from an organisational change, because of course we are going to support them from that framework. With the group of people who have come knocking, one sees that a third has stepped into a new job. So they have found another challenge within the company. A third of the people have remained in the same job, but perhaps they have done some work on it, perhaps they have given some thought to the possibilities of regulation or the sense of what we have just talked about. So that's also possible. It's not out of discontent that people are necessarily coming to the Talent Fit Center. And you see, a third is still working on this trajectory. The results are constantly moving. I just said that we work with a lot of ambassadors. I have just indicated that people who think about their careers in the short term will also find themselves in another job. People have started to work on the "working capacity house" to prepare their own career interviews. Those are the 500+ employees. Of course, we need to get our executives involved in that story. We work around talent, we focus on talents, but I would like to stress that. There are also many companies that are interested in this concept and want to do something with it and want to get on with it. For example, we started with an external network, a learning network. Let me give you an example of how things happen in practice. We simply come together with organisations and companies. We are supported by the Antwerp Management School. They are all companies and organisations that somehow look for answers to the questions of how we can turn workable work into practice, how we can support our employees and how we can make the link between the organisation and the individual. Those are identical questions that we share. We exchange instruments and we simply tell what works and what doesn't. What works and what doesn't work? What are we running into? We started with a change from the bottom up. That's very nice. We have ambassadors who have enormous energy, those shatters of energy, but we must also, of course, ensure that the leaders are with them. The executives are particularly crucial in this story, because they often have the keys to workable work. They have to get in that story. We feel that we must pay a great deal of attention to these two speeds. I have put the emphasis on the holistic approach on several occasions, on all these floors and on the whole. I also believe very strongly in this, but after two years I have also learned that the key lies on the floors of work and values. We certainly need to pay sufficient attention to this. It is not enough to focus on the health of the employees, it is also important to take care of the employees, and it will certainly help them to be more resilient that the organisation of the work is well on its feet. The house promotes dialogue around that theme. Maybe I can link here to the phenomenon of burn-out. We have a culture of strength: let us ensure that we remain as strong as possible, until the last moment and do not admit that there is a problem. I liked the way that guy in that video put it. In our company we also have a lot of people who persevere until the last moment and then fail. With that house we want to offer a framework to initiate dialogue, to put things on the table and to give signals to leaders. It is very important to develop this culture of dialogue, but at the same time it is not enough. After all, if employees are going to discuss this and they do not see any structural changes, then there is a huge frustration. The social partners support this approach. We have therefore involved them from the beginning. So they have joined this story. They also ensure that this not only continues to be a story of talk, but that cultural change is also supported by structural adjustments. Then there is something that we have to deal with very strongly, namely workable work, working capacity, even the topic of sustainable work. These are terms that we all support in Belgium, Flanders and perhaps also in a large part of Europe, but we do not always find it obvious to make this clear to our American fellow Members. They do not use that terminology either. That terminology is something else for them. I also notice that working power for them is purely the physical ability to work. They do not have that holistic framework. As a multinational, it is not always obvious to deal with this. That is why I call on the policy, when it is considered, to ensure that it also has an international resonance. The last point, measuring is necessary. We are now taking a very big road, but it is not clear that this holistic story and workable work should also be placed in measuring points. This was my story. I had another slide to show that this is a story of falling and getting up. It's not like: this is the road and we're going straight there. It's like falling back and standing up from time to time. That's the interesting thing, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u17	Mrs. Smet, thank you. Colleagues, you have heard these two interesting presentations from the people we welcome today on the subject of burn out. Who would like to speak to ask for explanations or questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank both speakers very much for their very interesting remarks. Mrs Van Grammberen, some Members have indeed already had the pleasure of getting a tour of a number of companies organized by your organisation. She was very educational and has taught us a lot in our search for workable work and solutions. I have five short questions, two for each and one for both. I'll start with Mrs. Mieke Van Gramberen. Firstly, many of the measures we are currently taking in the context of reintegration, both the resumption of progressive work and the new royal decisions with the reintegration plans, focus mainly on returning to the same job or at least to the same employer. It could be another job, but it could be the same employer. On the other hand, we believe that a burn-out is certainly linked to the working environment, as has also been mentioned. It may be important for these workers to move to another job environment and therefore also to another job and perhaps even a completely different sector. Do you have data on this, specifically about burn-out and its relationship with the same employer? Is it better to move to another employer? If that is the case, we, policy-makers, must pay more attention to this, in order to make this transition possible or more possible than is currently the case. Secondly, also in the definition of KU Leuven about what burn-out is, it became clear that burn-out is a combination of factors. The organization of work, the tasks and the working environment are very important factors. It was also made clear that the personality characteristics of someone, including the state of health, are an element in that as well as the personal context and situation of someone, especially the family state and so on. A third leg is awareness, but also diagnostic behaviour. Much earlier, the parties had the same characteristics, but they were otherwise diagnosed or not recognised. In any case, they were not aware that this was a burn-out. Therefore, people stayed less at home than is currently the case. That's a combination of factors. If you look at different companies or cases, do you have any idea to what extent each of these factors is involved in increasing the number of people with burn-out? My third question is a rather specific question to Mrs Smet. The separation between work and personal life is becoming increasingly blurred, also by the smartphone and the e-mail that must be constantly open and so on. Do you have examples of this within your company Janssen Pharmaceutica? I'm sure that's where it's gonna play. Are you going to do something about that? Fourthly, I understand from your argument that adapting the working environment is often a solution. Then why can't more employers do that and get the burn-out figures down? Is that because of a lack of knowledge and awareness or a lack of money and resources? Does the kind of measures Janssen Pharmaceutica takes cost money? I find it difficult to imagine that it is a matter of bad will. That is almost impossible, but what are the causes? If solutions are available, why does this situation not improve in many companies? Finally, a question for both of you. I heard you say that there is no need for legislation and that solutions can be created in a different way. Is there any obstacle to legislation? I think that in many situations it is a matter of making agreements between employer and employee. Are there certain laws or collective agreements which make it more difficult to create a tailor-made situation in which workers feel better?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u19	Also my thanks to our guests for their interventions. The reason why we took this initiative in this committee is to give the debate on burn-out and psychosocial risks a scientific character. In the context of the legislation on which we are voting, the debate often emerges from the increasing number of absentees in the workplace because of illness. We are indeed seeing more short and long absences. Of course, this has to do with more than just work. You are now focusing on what could happen in the work context. But the lives of all of us have become much more complex over the past decades. That doesn't always make it easy to keep everything workable and liveable. However, the legislator is always expected to enact all kinds of laws that would make life more liveable. However, I think that this will make things even more complicated and thus have a reverse effect. I would like to continue with that. I understand that Mrs Van Grammberen says that we do not need new laws so much. I fully agree with that. We also need to evaluate what already exists today. We now have the external services for protection and prevention at work, with the Welfare Act for Workers, which determines a great deal in terms of plans, action plans and risk analyses. When I talk to companies, but also with employees or HR services, I have the impression that it gives them some work to do all this, but in a real crisis situation or if a problem is detected, it doesn't help them much. In concrete terms, it often becomes a paper with an action plan, a risk analysis. But when there is a conflict within a group or department in a company, and the prevention adviser is asked to intervene preventively, one often gets a theoretical answer and ultimately the ball lies with the employer. In turn, it often has to work with a measure which must be quite strict in order to separate one from the other. But when there is a conflict, there is actually no intervention from prevention services. They're not really open to this either. A great deal of administrative and financial burdens are being placed on companies to operate through these external prevention services. My question is whether this will achieve the desired result or whether it would not be wise to evaluate everything. There is no law to allow people to interact with each other in a proper way. After all, it often comes down to making human agreements in the workplace. In our culture, too, there is still a long way to go in this direction. This is not always in law. How do you evaluate this in the context of the initiatives you are taking to change your mindset and ensure that bottom-up cooperation can be improved so that people feel more free in their work and are better organised themselves? To what extent does the current framework help with this? Or is it not helping at all? Shouldn't we be looking for another way to move forward? I have also heard that concrete action is necessary in the workplace itself. I feel the same way. I still see too many executives looking at everything very hierarchically, while growing a certain support base for making decisions is very important to get a team along. So everyone should actually be a bit of a change manager, but unfortunately not every manager is. So what can we do? Is the responsibility for this only for the companies themselves? What action would still be possible, apart from not rewriting laws or adding complicated rules? To what extent could we follow the Scandinavian example of encouraging companies? I am convinced that they should have sufficient incentives to do so. We are in a mess of talent, where everyone better wonder how to keep good people in the company. There is also a financial aspect. A high number of sick and absent also means a cost for the company. So I think there are some incentives for companies to start their own business. So, what else can happen to ensure that action is taken in the workplace?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u20	I would also like to thank the two speakers for their introduction and their explanatory statement. Mr Lachaert spoke just now about the cost of business. There are figures on this. The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work has already done some work on stress and risks to health and safety at work. The ILO also published a report on this issue at the end of April last year. The European Union estimates that some 41 million Europeans have to deal with this problematic stress. It has been estimated that this would mean an annual cost of around EUR 617 billion. Of these, EUR 272 billion are attributed to absenteeism and non-productive presence. There is 242 billion euros in productivity loss, 63 billion euros in health care and 34 billion euros in disability. My question is whether there are figures at Belgian level that allow us to quantify this in one way or another. I am asking this because this may be the most imaginative of companies to encourage and sensitize them to do something about it. So perhaps that is a fact to include such matters in those centres of knowledge, or whatever might come from them in the future, and to see how they might have calculated that in Europe. Secondly, that is actually a bit in line with that. I fully agree with you that we cannot regulate this through laws. Good work organisation, good prevention, that cannot be regulated by law. Only the framework can be created. In the end, it is in the workplace itself that good agreements should be made. However, perhaps we should brainstorm creatively in order to stimulate a number of things through regulations that already exist today. I'm just saying, there are employment plans today that treat most companies like a piece of paper. They fill that out because they see it as an obligation and then add it to the business. However, one could think about giving some incentives perhaps in the context of education funds, funds for the security of life, and I know a lot about all of them. It is possible to obtain additional drawing rights within a company or a sector if such items are included. We can also look at whether we can do something to stimulate this through the new system of training which has now been developed by Minister Peeters, with the training days. Maybe we can work there with some kind of bonus system or show some creativity. If we are dealing with these matters, we may be able to encourage a few companies. My question is actually to reach out to us and to reflect on your experience and knowledge of the field in order to provide us with things that could be interesting for companies to encourage them to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u21	Thank you, Mr. Vercamer. Mrs Kitir has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers for their interesting presentation. Before I ask them my questions, I would first like to address you. There are four people registered who couldn't make it. If I hear Mr Lachaert say that analyses are being carried out and that nothing else is happening, how should we do that? Several professors we had actually invited have a clear vision of this. So it seems very interesting to me to invite these people as well. Mr President, is there going to be another time to hear these people too? How is that arranged?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u23	Mrs. Kitir, I can hear you. I spoke earlier, before you arrived, about the order of business. It is clear that a whole series of things had been clarified, including recently by the Conference of Presidents. I was questioned by our colleague, Jean-Marc Delizée, who wanted hearings to be held on his proposed law on citizen service. Unfortunately, we were not in numbers to address the problem. As I told him, let's talk about it next week at the beginning of the commission. I have already asked the committee secretary to include this item on the agenda next Tuesday so that a discussion can take place on the agenda, hoping that the number of parliamentarians present will be sufficient. I have also suggested to Mr Delizée that tomorrow the issue be raised in the Conference of Presidents, as the Conference of Presidents can make changes to the agenda. I see no problem in inviting people who have not been able to come today. But the problem is that we are not in sufficient numbers to do so. We shall try to limit to the maximum the interventions concerning the order of business. Nevertheless, I give the floor to Mr Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u24	I am open to that, Mr President. It's an important theme. There could only be a limited number of our guests present. We can see if we can organize a second session at the next stage of the work. I don't have a problem with that. It's always interesting to hear different voices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u25	I didn't say otherwise, but the rules must be respected....
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u26	Mr President, the Conference of Presidents only deals with such matters when there are real problems. Normally the committees organise their own work. I hear that my fellow Members also have little objection to this, even because there was already an agreement to hear these people. We will discuss it further next week. I would like to thank the speakers very much for their presentation. Burn-out is a very important theme. The numbers don't lie. It is also a very topical issue. You have given an example of good practice of a company that works actively and proactively to combat burn-outs. The presentations of both of you show that work plays an important role in the story of burn-outs. Anyone who claims that a burn-out is not so much about the work as about everything that happens around it, I would like to contradict it. The factors 'work' and 'work' values' play a very important role, as you yourself said. At the level of the company and the level of the workplace there can be a lot of changes in this respect. Today, I think there is already a great deal to work with. I do not think that the problem or awareness is acute enough, both for employers and for workers, because I believe that both sides are needed to eliminate this phenomenon. It is not so much me to do about one party or the other. It is particularly important to tackle this together and to see how we can resolve this problem. In that respect, I'm still a little hungry. Many companies have a roadmap. You have also explained the context in which you work. You have had career interviews with your employees to make them aware and to help them think about their career. I think it is a very big step to make people think about what they are doing at work, whether they want to do it or whether they want to do something else. I believe that this is already a very big step, and I would like to congratulate you on that. I really believe this is the right approach. We must enter into dialogue together and seek solutions constructively. The question is where companies, which are not yet in the process and are not yet fully aware of their added value, can today get real support for the changes in their organisation. We need to outline a whole process and a whole framework. The whole philosophy of the company and the organisation must be taken into account, because it cannot be started without a framework. When one starts, one must determine which direction one wants to go and what perspective will be offered. That means there's got to be support. Where can companies go these days? If companies want to start with this, but absolutely not know how to start with it, who can they contact? Is it sufficiently well known to the employers' and employees' organizations that they can go there? Maybe I am wrong, but often I feel that it is only when certain deadlines are established that many people fail, if there are problems within an organisation, that people become aware of a problem. Also in the video that was shown to us, we saw a project manager who said that it was all a bit too much for him. Often these signals only lead to action being taken. I would actually prefer to see it happen the other way around, so take action before those signals appear, before people fail or have to be employed elsewhere because they are no longer able to participate in the company. For example, we should ensure that there is confidence and that a structure is set up to combat burn-outs. Mrs Smet, you spoke about the learning network in Janssen Pharmaceutica, about support. I see that several companies have been listed in it, and I agree with that, because we need to share the knowledge we have. We can learn the best from each other's situation. This means that companies are being made aware. I do wonder how the workers are also made aware of the processes that are taking place. It is not only enough to make managers aware of the need for something else to happen. How are the workers prepared for this? For example, when it comes to rotating work or working in teams, it is not always obvious for those who do not have the right skills or talents. Some workers who do the same work today are thrown into a team from today to tomorrow, where they have to take on different tasks. How is the employee prepared for this? The figures of the Workability Monitor are about emotional stress, job variation and autonomy. From the moment an employee gets job variation and autonomy, the emotional burden can suddenly become much too heavy. How can we support the employee in this, so that he is ready to participate in the new process that lies ahead of him or her?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u27	Mrs Smet and Mrs Van Grammberen, I too would like to thank you for your comments. A first point I wanted to make, even before Mr Spoormen and Mr Lachaert referred to it, concerns the often heard argument that burn-out is not just about work, but also about leisure time. People today want to do everything in their lives, the phone is never off and so on. The video we have seen shows that this analysis does not necessarily have to be correct. We see a team leader who comes home and doesn't want to work out anymore, because he doesn't find the energy for it anymore, after he's worked. Ten minutes later, he falls asleep in his couch. That video shows that burn-out is primarily related to work. VOKA points out that the more complex our world becomes, the more complex our labour market becomes, just like the tasks our employees have to perform in a constantly changing environment. I believe that we must acknowledge this and that the argument that people have to make other choices is a doer of death. People still get to choose children and still get to practice a hobby? Economy must be at the service of the people, not the other way round. That's how I've always understood it. I wonder how you both look at this analysis, which in my view is often used as an excuse not to have to do too much about the problem. For me, that is a fact, which we have to work on anyway. I believe that it should not be an excuse for the government not to do anything about workable work and to keep repeating that argument as a doer of death. I hope that in five years' time we will not have to hold further hearings on how we can reduce the number of burn-out cases. I now come automatically to my second comment, and above all to the question of policy recommendations. In the end, we are on committee for this. I do believe that the central approach is important. That's the only way things can work. This does not, of course, exclude the possibility for the public authorities, in consultation with the social partners, to do certain things. One doesn't have to contradict the other at all. I believe that the examples from abroad, for example from Finland, which I know relatively well, and also from Germany and Denmark, just show that the combination of government, social partners and companies can indeed be achieved. I do not believe in a contradiction between a decentralised approach and a centralist approach. A number of things need to be tackled centrally. In Parliament, the law on workable and manoeuvrable work was adopted not so long ago. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I find it funny that it is said that no laws are needed for this, while we have just passed a law with that title. Perhaps it should be admitted that that title does not really cover the load, but that aside. In fact, we find that the law contains few elements that are consistent with the story that Mrs Van Grammberen of Flanders Synergy has brought. In particular, the Peters Act makes working hours more flexible and does not talk so much about what people should do at work and how to do that work, in meaningful and meaningful work. How could one as a policy-maker create a framework that also supports the story of the search for meaningful and meaningful work? As I said, there is the Finnish example, but I am also curious about the examples from Germany and Denmark, which were cited. You referred to it yourself, Mrs Van Grammberen. What are the things that you would get out of it, which is actually interesting at policy level? Do you think that policy can set objectives and establish a framework to evolve into those more workable work environments? It is often said that politics can do nothing about it, but my speech clearly shows that I am convinced that we can do something about it, which is why we are holding a hearing on this matter. I hear saying that we could formulate the objective of reducing mental fatigue by half, for example. In other words, can you define the objective of reducing the number of debilitating jobs by a certain percentage by a certain date? How can we indeed ensure that the good examples, which are there, are more pervasive and wider, so that we do not have to sit here again in five years' time? How can one convert the debilitating jobs to active jobs? And above all, how can the government play a role in this? In our view, this should not necessarily be done by means of laws. However, it is not prohibited to offer a framework to take by hand companies that want to engage in evolution and to look with them, specifically on the workplace, which can be better done, how one can evolve into more active rather than debilitating jobs, as Flanders Synergy does. We did visit Flanders Synergy. I thought that was a very interesting visit. This is a Flemish initiative, and I can imagine that it might be interesting to reach more companies throughout Belgium, through, for example, a system of co-financing. Flanders Synergy might have a different name, but I don't really care, it's especially important that it happens. How are you on the other hand, for example, that this is being expanded so that the government can be a facilitator and really support companies that want to make the change? I believe that this question really lives on a lot of work floors to be offered handles, frames and tools to make that cover. I am therefore particularly interested in more things that the government can do, in a decentralistic context, but we are convinced that the government can assume a great deal of responsibility for a number of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Willaert. I don't know who wants to answer first. Madame Van Grammberen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u29	Maybe we can relieve each other. I will try to respond to the various questions in the order in which they were asked. Mr Spooren, you asked a question about social reintegration after a burn-out. I believe this is crucial. For the record, as Flanders Synergy, we have no experience of that. These are trajectories which I suspect will be accompanied by other organisations, including the prevention services. You asked the question whether one should also think about careers outside the organization. I have the following reflex: the problem of burn-out is very complex, there will never be one solution. I therefore believe that there are different ways to go. A first path is certainly to create business contexts in which healthier work situations arise. That's the comparison with the safe roads. These routes should be safer, those business environments should be healthier, healthier in terms of more learning opportunities, less risk of work stress. But then again, I do not think that one should rule out. Let me give you the example of Duva. The person in question, the team leader, has not even fallen out, but if he has fallen out, I can perfectly imagine that he can also return to a context that has been adapted. Nor should it be excluded that some contexts may also be difficult to adapt due to the nature of the process: to look at careers, to think about careers and to link careers not only to one particular business context. I think most scientists, and certainly career experts like Ans De Vos, would just agree that this is an en-en-story. One must invest in business organisation and new concepts, and one must invest in careers. This has something to do with burn-out, but it also has to do with longer working with desire. I think we need to invest in both.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u30	I have just spoken about that internal career cell we have, that Talent Fit Center, and about the fact that we have people who volunteer to do so. For example, there are people who have had a burnout and then they consciously look for a different context or another job. In that sense, in my view, such an internal career cell is a vehicle. We all know that there is also external career guidance with career cheques. That works very well. The powerful thing about an internal career cell is that we work with external coaches, which give people the same kind of career guidance as what exists externally, but that we have internal people who know the company so well that they can also help develop those networks to look for other opportunities. Of course, I left from the fact that we have the luxury of having a lot of different types of jobs and environments where people can find their way. Sometimes it's an answer for people. No matter how harsh it may sound, certain executives are sometimes sickening, so people just have to get away from it. That's just a fact. In that sense, it is being worked on in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u31	I come to the question of Jan Spooren and Evita Willaert about the weight of the factor work versus the person and the personal vulnerability. When I look back at the definition of the researchers in Leuven, I see that burn-out occurs because of an overload at work that is often accompanied by a personal vulnerability. From this point of view, it is assumed that the cause of the burn-out lies in an overload at work, but is also associated with a personal issue. I think that the definition given by the researchers is actually in line with... There was an interesting longitudinal study by Professor Karasek, even though he has been on emeritate for many years, in Malmö. That wasn't about burn-out, but it was about permanent disability. In that he found that there is a difference. If people end up in permanent disability, if they do not return to the workplace for a long time, there is a link with the health and age of the person in question. Even if these factors are neutralized, if these differences are eliminated, there is still the work organisation as a variable to explain why, independently of age, regardless of the health situation that one has, one still gets an even greater outflow into that permanent disability. It's in the work organization. As far as I know, there is no research in it. That also indicates the complexity. It is a story of business organisation, of prevention, but also of a curative and individual resilient story. If we want to provide a sustainable solution to the problem of psychological fatigue and burn-out, we will have to pay attention to the way companies organise themselves and we will also have to pay attention to individual resilience. That's the story that Janssen Pharmaceutica brings with the home of working power. It's an en-en-story. My only observation was that in the current prevention and the way in which psychosocial tax legislation is translated into practice, too much weight goes on the individual and too little to the business organisation. Then we miss opportunities to find a sustainable solution. That's my gut feeling. You asked if there were any comments on the administrative costs of implementing psychosocial legislation, but I must honestly say that I have no idea. I believe that this will require the experience of companies and prevention services. They are better suited to provide an answer from their expertise. We may still be able to work on legislation by simplifying it, but I believe that the philosophy on which the legislation is based, with the attention of the five Aubéans, makes a real difference to the psychosocial burden. In theory, it's a good law. Only there is a major discrepancy between the law and the experience in practice. To answer Mr Vercamer's question, we are certainly prepared to consider the incentives to address the problem of psychosocial stress, of burn-out in a more structural way. I believe that the spurs you give, such as collective agreement No. 104, the education funds, are excellent for that. That also confirms the story that there are instruments. We have instruments. But we must also focus them on the problem. There's legislation. But there has to be a follow-up in practice. There are sector funds. They work today on training and training. Of the 15 sectoral funds, there are two, and I am thinking in particular of food, which are working on workable work. That's actually another exception. The sectoral education funds seem to me to be excellent instruments for making this more widely negotiable. The training funds also have the advantage, and now I come to Mrs Kitir's question, that they are embedded in the social dialogue. With regard to your concern about the people in the workplace, I mean both people and groups, so I can tell the representatives of those people that they are not sufficiently prepared to deal with the problem of workable work. They are not sufficiently prepared for it. They do not have sufficient knowledge of matters, which they themselves state. For those who have no knowledge, it is difficult to talk to. They soon find themselves in a somewhat more defensive conversation, which is actually necessary for nothing. A better understanding of how workable work can be achieved, shared by social partners and also widely shared with both employers' and employees' representatives, would certainly give wind in the sails, which today is a failure. Mrs. Smet, would you mind taking over? I have a few more questions to answer after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u32	Mr President, there was also a question about the separation between work and personal life, which is becoming more vague. We have set up a working group on workable work. It's incredibly beautiful to see how everyone defines that in a different way. There are people who simply crave extreme flexibility. They want to work wherever and whenever they want. There are also people who want to see things more delimited again, because this gives them more comfort. What we are trying to do with the working power house is stay in the metaphor. Everyone's house looks different. That's also the story we bring. We provide people with an instrument for thinking about matter and shaping it. Workers in a production department of course do not have that freedom to choose, but employees in a different role can simply choose whether they work at home or whether they choose the office environment or are present at the company. Those are his own choices. That's part of the story, too. People have to think about it for themselves. We are trying to make it clear to them that they should not point to the organization for the cause. After all, we offer the flexibility to fill it out ourselves. However, I do hear you, and I am also aware that this is not evident to everyone and that some workers have difficulty with this flexibility. I repeat that the house is a framework for having the conversation between management and staff about what exactly they need and how it can be shaped. Is that by being in the office every day, okay, but is that by working at home, okay? That's the story we're trying to bring. There was the question of why a number of organisations are failing, why not all of them are doing so. Quite frankly, I think this has to do with short and long term. This is a long-term story. We have been doing this for three years and there are small things happening, but it is not a story that a company is changing completely. Perhaps the comparison is not entirely correct, but I myself pioneered the gender diversity company 15 years ago. I can tell you that after ten years they bear the first fruits. I also believe that this is a long-term story, where one must continue, be consistent, bring the story forward, and involve everyone, and then one will see things changing, but not in the short term. However, most companies often still have a short-term logic. As far as legislation is concerned, I have double feelings about that. At the time when I have to tell the story again on a works council, what is the meaning of collective agreement No. 104, I think: here we go again, and evaluation and on paper and approval. Moreover, I have some difficulty with the fact that this collective agreement is aimed at 45-plussers. After all, I think that people will be in the throes of their lives. Sometimes I feel that this is no longer entirely in line with the dynamics in which we find ourselves. That is my problem, but one can handle it very creatively. The collective agreement No. 104 has been fully completed by the "House of Work Power' project. We choose not to focus on a particular target group, but we opt for a holistic approach that is relevant for each generation and age group. That's the creativity. One gets some resistance. As Mrs van Gamberen has just said, the social partners are not always fully involved in this story. We have taken them very hard into that story, so some of our social partners are there. But one gets that resistance to focus on the specific niche of that legislative framework. That actually costs a lot of energy sometimes, I must say. Another aspect of the legislative framework that we are faced with is that when we talk about flexible jobs or giving oxygen to people, it would be fantastic if people could also work in another company, be seconded for a while and come back with the experience of somewhere else. It's not that simple. Legally, there are a lot of obstacles there and that is actually very unfortunate. We are talking about this flexible labour market. For us that is a positive concept and for some people that is actually a negative concept. That really is the cultural change we have to go through.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u33	I would perhaps like to join with the last point, what Mieke Smet says. I do not think that at the moment, not even from Flanders Synergy, we have a good or complete view of the extent of the problem, let us say good, complete, complete, in which the existing legislation is either a lever or a barrier. What we do see is that in subsidised sectors such as care and education, we often run into thresholds when we start redesigning. They do not prevent these organisations from taking them away, but they are certainly not going to speed it up. In those subsidised sectors, we do feel these thresholds. If you then look at the normal economic circuit, as an innovation platform, we have received most of the questions about time- and location-independent working. I suspect, however, that if one were to go into more detail, if one really devoted a study to the relationship with innovative organisation, renewed careers and the legislative framework, one would find more. Yesterday we were on company visits in a sector. I'm not going to mention the sector specifically, but we were in discussion with one of the companies. We came to the next point. If we want to increase the quality of work here, we should actually be able to increase the chain in which the company works, the added value chain in which it works. So one has to pull in certain activities. It is not the same example, but this is happening today, for example, at car companies. They're going to re-source ten suppliers' activities. That sounds very technical, but in practice it actually means increasing the design possibilities. For example, it is said by the same company: if we move into this value-added chain, we will clash with several joint committees and different remuneration systems. I always appreciate people with a corner thinking out of the box. I can imagine that legislative work could be even more stimulating than it is today. But that really requires further analysis. The question has just been asked whether the views on work and work organisation have been sufficiently disseminated. No. Are they sufficiently well known? No, I didn't. Are there any players active in the Walloon region with the same insights? No. Unfortunately, that's three nos. What we are trying to do from Flanders Synergy... That is perhaps also an answer to the question that Evita Willaert has just asked, and that is also based on our own experience and the experience of colleagues from abroad, from European countries but also from America. We are actually trying, first of all, to create examples. In fact, we should be able to achieve them in many more different sectors. That is actually a major challenge, and we are not achieving it today. Just now we had the example of Duva, a little chocolatetier. That allowed us to start the conversation with the food industry. Today I am very proud to say that we are working with eight food companies in two business networks to reduce short-term work while maintaining or increasing business performance. But then, for the sake of fairness, we have only eight food companies left. From these eight food companies to the food sector is another step. So I think it is necessary to create such examples in many more different sectors. These examples are needed, because when I look back at other contacts with companies, in the process industry in the chemical or manufacturing industry, or within education, primary or higher education, everyone considers their business context to be unique. In order to convince organisations, one must know the primary process very well and be able to imagine the VOCA environment very well. Yes, such examples are needed in infinitely many different sectors. We don't have any today. A second element, which we are trying to do, is to the best of our ability: these examples should be very practical and practical. That's what they're seeing with Duva now. We're gonna get to work at the chocolatetier with about 20 people. That is based on scientific building blocks and insights. We do this through very different forms of work. That is also a lesson we have learned from other workplace innovation programs. That's just tacit knowledge. We can't take anything off the shelf and just plug in to a company. We don't have a machine that's plugged in. It's about people. It's about a culture. It's about corporate organization. Everyone puts a bit of their own signature in that. This means that the forms of work must also be very diverse. In addition to creating these good examples, we must at the same time develop very active instruments and forms of work, thus achieving a wide range. Then I think a third and final step is very important. If we really want to create a social breakthrough with an innovation programme like ours, then we must also be organised to pass on that torch. So today we are investing very much in building an ecosystem. I hope that we will be able to do the same in the near future. I'm going to give two small examples. If Agoria is thinking today about the factory of the future, it contains six to seven dimensions for them, including "human centered". We work with the employers' organisation for two years. They also invest in these themes. They have seen examples. In the meantime, they're convinced, too. So we are at a stage where a number of examples are already beginning to emerge and where the employer's organization is enthusiasmed and within a year or two, who knows, may take over the direction to bring it on a larger scale. For us this is a great story, because then we will no longer be needed in this sector. Let me give you another example from education. For a number of networks, some 50 schools from compulsory education, we are looking for partners who are ready to take over the torch. In this case, these are the domes which, with the educational counsellors, make their bed at the learning networks. These are sustainable partners in education, reviewing their tasks. The example given earlier, the training funds, could also be such a partner. The training funds have been in existence since the 1980s. These are sustainable partners in which the social partners have confidence. As they start to work on this type of topic sustainably, we can start to think about a social breakthrough. What one needs are examples. We also need a methodology and networks, and at the same time an ecosystem, with partners who say that they will make their bed and take over the torch. Then a social breakthrough comes into sight, but only then. We have a great deal of work ahead of us in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u34	As far as the legislative framework is concerned, this can certainly help to stimulate, but it must remain a framework. It must be an incentive framework in which we do not get too many assignments, because sometimes it becomes difficult. I would like to add another dimension: there is the company, there is local legislation, but there is also the global structure. We have to be constantly creative to link all these things together, and that sometimes creates frustration and work. However, I believe that a legislative framework can be very stimulating and that the government must accept its responsibility. Let us interpret this widely enough, let us give companies room to fill in this in their own way, let us be progressive and look at things in an international context. I think this is important, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic618x.u35	Thank you if you're done. I assume that my colleagues have been given a full answer to the questions they have asked. While thanking you again for your presence, your presentations and your answers, I therefore close our session. Thank you.
