ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u3	Colleagues, Gaston Onkelinx, honorary member of the House of Representatives, died on 30 January last in Liège, at the age of 84. Gaston Onkelinx was born on 13 July 1932 in Jeuk, Limburg, a Flemish father and a Walloon mother. After his primary secondary education at the atheneum of Sint-Truiden, Gaston Onkelinx moved to Liège shortly after World War II with his parents. Like his father and his uncles, he joined the coal and steel production company Ougrée-Marihaye, which merged in 1955 with the other Liège steel giant, the Société Anonyme John Cockerill. The working time at that time was 48 hours, and also on Saturdays was still working. During the winter strike of 1960-1961, Gaston Onkelinx, who has been a member of the ABVV for a year, came into contact with André Cools. He convinced the young metal worker to connect his trade union action with political commitment. In October 1970, Gaston Onkelinx was elected a socialist communal councillor in Ougrée, the place where he settled some 20 years earlier with his family and which he will not leave. He immediately became a member of the Social Affairs Department, a function which he would continue to perform after the merger of Ougrée with Seraing until April 1986. Meanwhile, Gaston Onkelinx became a member of the House in March 1974 for the then Belgian Socialist Party. For thirteen years he will be a particularly active member of the Committee on Employment and Social Policy. In this House, he stressed the vital importance of social security at a time when Belgian industry was hit hard by the global economic crisis. It pays particular attention to the problem of unemployment and the status of the Public Social Aid Centres. Gaston Onkelinx, a member of the Walloon Region Council from October 1980 to November 1987, is deeply concerned about the economic and social situation in the industrial regions of Wallonia, where coal mines close one after another and where the steel industry is also facing considerable difficulties. When his term as a Member of Parliament ended in December 1987, Gaston Onkelinx devoted himself full-time to his fief de Seraing, of which he would be mayor from May 1988 to January 1994. Its mission was not simple: if the financial situation of the city was not enviable, the prospects for the future were even darker. He himself testified to the contrast between the full employment he had experienced when he arrived forty years earlier and the ubiquitous unemployment that had since settled. Combining as it was, the mayor Onkelinx was able to cope with the many problems that have arisen and managed to guarantee the social cohesion of his population of more than 60 nationalities. After his mayorship, Gaston Onkelinx remained a member of the municipal council until December 1994, after which he withdrew from active politics. But, of course, the sailing in Seraing kept him busy. Until the last time he was very appreciated and very much liked to see him, and he stayed in the town hall - his own town hall - a welcome guest. Colleagues, in an interview, Gaston Onkelinx said of himself: "I've always been a joyous drill and I've remained." None of those with him could resist his bonhomy or his unwavering optimism. His six children and twelve grandchildren were also able to enjoy this bonhomy and optimism. Sunday family meetings, which he had been organizing for many years, made him happy every time. An even more salient character trait of Gaston Onkelinx, and essential to him, was his sense of solidarity. He was firmly convinced of the principle that solidarity ultimately always triumphs over both the common interest and personal happiness, a fortiori when it transcends the linguistic and state boundaries but also the social categories. On behalf of the House, I presented to the family of Gaston Onkelinx, whom I greet in our gallery, our sincere condolences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Gaston Onkelinx has profoundly marked the political history of our country, and in particular that of the Region of Liège. Gaston Onkelinx defined himself as a real Belgian: a child of a Walloon mother and a Flemish father, he mastered Dutch and French to perfection. He became one of the most active socialist deputies in the House between 1974 and 1987. Gaston Onkelinx has an exceptional personal journey. Metallurgical and trade union delegate, he then became a major political leader and must-see: social affairs alderman, member of the Chamber, member of the Council of the Walloon Region, but also mayor of Seraing, this commune where he has always lived. A combat man in a region hit by de-industrialisation, Gaston Onkelinx engaged in politics with passion and intelligence. He found work at Cockerill and there it all began with a union engagement following the major strikes of 1960 and 1961. A few years ago Gaston Onkelinx justified this commitment by saying: "There were systematic attacks against the socialists, we were the privileged target and, to face it, we set up a corporate section of the Belgian Socialist Party in Cockerill. At the union, this cell wasn't too well seen." Because of this commitment, of course, he came into contact with various Liege socialist figureheads, including André Cools, who convinced him to run for municipal elections. It would be the start of a long political career. Gaston Onkelinx was immediately elected and became ships of Social Affairs, a competence that would form the main thread of his political course. The man, who had known his city in her flowering period, now had to lead the difficult battle against factory closures. Gaston Onkelinx had an indestructible faith in man and remained optimistic, even in the most difficult circumstances. His most faithful friends know and say how much he loved having fun and laughing. He had learned the piano and he always liked to push the song or even dance the taps, but the man, aware of the importance of his responsibilities, had once told a journalist that if he liked to sing, he never did so in the performance of his duties. Gaston Onkelinx was the proud father of six children. In Liège, it was well known that he was, among other things, extremely proud of the political commitment of his daughter Laurette and his son Alain, who, today, continues the political struggle that their father once led in the House or in the Walloon Parliament. Although he gave up his executive activities in 1994, Gaston Onkelinx was still very present at the Socialist Party Congress. An active activist until the end, he followed the red line he had set himself at the beginning of his career. On behalf of the federal government, I wish to extend my deepest condolences to his wife, our colleague Laurette, and to all of her family and loved ones. We wish them much courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u5	Mr President, I ask for the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u6	You have the floor, Mr. Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u7	Mr.President, we have at point 13 the examination and debate of the bill on work that is feasible and manageable – document No. 2247. The organization of work took time, in committee, to examine the content at length with the Minister. We didn't vote at night and it wasn't a hussard job. We have been able to object to certain points of divergence. There are also nuances between groups. Still, I am going to intervene here on issues of legal certainty. We have made reservations, minister. The Council of State itself has made observations and requests that have not been followed up by the Government. In order to guarantee the legal certainty of this project, Mrs Onkelinx, Mrs Kitir, Mr Daerden, Mr Massin and myself, supported by other groups, tabled fourteen amendments. Referring to Rule 98(3) of the Rules of Procedure, we ask that the debate on our agenda be suspended and that the draft be submitted to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u8	Mr Delizée, I fully understand the request for an opinion to the Council of State. I will take it back and ask myself, on behalf of your group, for the opinion of the Council of State. Mrs Fonck has the floor. Is it on the same subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u9	Mr President, I assure you that not all texts will be referred to the Council of State today. Minister, we have had interesting debates. Changing and modernising work organisation is an important issue. You know that we have tabled a series of proposals on this matter ourselves. If we join the process of sending the text to the Council of State today, that is for two reasons. The first is that a series of points of attention of the Council of State did not lead to satisfactory follow-up by the government. I take an example: the important issue of training throughout the professional career. Some questions arise as to the scope of this training. The second reason is that you have provided in this law the possibility for the social partners to conclude collective agreements on a number of central issues. I am thinking, for example, of telework. At the same time, you are confiscating them the opportunity to negotiate time limits, as your bill provides for a time limit that is now expired. To tell the social partners that they can reach an agreement, but on condition that it is signed by 1 February, even though this date is already exceeded, is a completely inapplicable provision. It is for these two reasons, in particular, that we refer this text to the Council of State. I am tabling amendments, Mr President. We will have an opportunity to have a broader debate in due course. Indeed, we have also made a series of complementary proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u10	Mrs Fonck, my answer is identical to that given to the question put by Mr Delizée. Mr Gilkinet, do you also table an amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u11	Mr. President, absolutely. Our group wishes to submit to the Council of State a series of amendments aimed at improving this text on the so-called "feasible" work. These amendments relate to the individual right to training of workers, the status of the immediate caregiver - a real solution to enable parents who wish to care for sick children to have the capacity to do so - but also to birth leave and bereavement leave. These amendments have already been deposited with the Registrar. Thank you for submitting them also to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u12	That will be the case, Mr Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u13	Mr President, the minister wanted to speed up procedures and take advantage of the holidays to pass all these laws that are not very social. The opinions of the Council of State have been swept away more or less dramatically in the debates in committee. We are also tabling eight amendments, which are already being tabled with the services. We want to support this consultation of the Council of State. The latter should still have a say in this procedure. I understand that the minister wants to speed up the process, but I think it is important to have an in-depth debate, when we see how the measures that the minister proposes will be intrusive to people's privacy, how much control over this life will escape them. It is legitimate to seek this opinion from the Council of State. Our amendments have already been delivered to the services, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u14	I repeat: this will be the case. Colleagues, we will not discuss this project today. We will do so once we have read the opinions of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u15	Mr. President, I don't understand. I had introduced to the House of Commons a question to the Prime Minister about the alarming poverty figures published by the Office of the Plan. They focus on pension rights, access to health care and other factors that bring together a great deal of skills. My colleague and I had addressed our questions to the Prime Minister because it seemed obvious to us that when a subject is so cross-cutting, it is important to know his position. I am therefore surprised that I was not informed or, in any case, that I was informed after the 11 a.m. deadline, that our questions had been redirected to Mrs Sleurs on the grounds that the Prime Minister refused to answer us. The tradition that prevails in this House, Mr President, is that it is up to the Member to choose whose question he is asking. This government should stop deciding for us! There was more than one argument for the Prime Minister to respond, especially since he is present. I therefore think, Mr. Chairman, that you could reorient our questions in his direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u16	Mr President, I had addressed the same question to the Prime Minister. I remember very well that, at the time of the government declaration, he had found that about 15% of the Belgian population lived below the poverty line. This issue is cross-cutting and multidimensional. In addition, Belgium has committed to the European Union to reduce the poverty rate by 20% by 2020. For all these reasons, like my colleague, I had addressed my question to the Prime Minister as Head of Government. Indeed, many competences are concerned with this subject. So I also want the Prime Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, you will be aware that this problem is not new. Regularly, we have to subtract who will answer. In this case, it has been decided to have Secretary of State Mr Sleurs reply, firstly because the government is one and indivisible, secondly because Mrs Sleurs is the competent State Secretary and, thirdly, because she is responsible for coordinating policy in this area. We therefore thought it appropriate to have the Secretary of State reply on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u18	Prime Minister, 60 000 jobs are at stake at Brussels airport. Ryanair no longer organises additional flights on Zaventem. Cargo companies are leaving the airport. The Group of 10 sent a letter last week with his concerns. The CEO of Brussels Airport, my dear fellow Members, said the same thing. Prime Minister, employers, trade unions and employees support your government's plan to create jobs and, in this particular case, to retain 60,000 jobs at the Brussels airport, the second economic gate of our country. The only ones who are not in the story, ladies and gentlemen, are the PS and the cdH in Brussels. However, the unemployment rate there is 17.5%. 96 000 people are out of work there. This percentage is much higher than the unemployment rate in Flanders or Wallonia. 10 000 of them are under 25 years of age and 60 000 of them are low-skilled. When I speak to people in Brussels - and I know some of them - they are not so much awake from airplanes, which have been producing less noise in recent years. They lie awake in Brussels from their jobs, from their children and from their grandchildren. The decision of Brussels to make noise standards even stricter is contrary to what is needed for 17% of the Brussels population, namely jobs. Does the PS and the CdH in Brussels understand well that they cut off the branch on which their working citizens are sitting? I can only observe, as I said two weeks ago, Prime Minister, that the CdH and the PS are playing political games in Brussels to discredit you and your party on the hood of the people working in the national airport. That is what I would like to repeat - quite scandalously. It is high time that the Brussels Government acknowledged the importance of our airport. She's not the problem, but part of the solution. Today there appeared to be a procedural error in the Brussels decision. That is good news, but it offers only a temporary and not a structural solution. Prime Minister, will you bring the airport and the governments around the table to work out a positive plan so that in the short term the 60,000 jobs can be preserved and the airport can grow in the long term? Will you and the regional governments look for structural solutions for the airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u19	Prime Minister, here we are again in the plenary sitting with the difficult dossier at Zaventem airport. On the one hand, we need a flight law, which ensures a fair distribution of the nuisance and legal certainty. On the other hand, noise standards are different in each region and there are also 60 000 jobs directly and indirectly linked to the airport. Prime Minister, tens of thousands of workers concerned are worried. Last week, employers and employees called the alarms together. They started a petition to please keep their jobs. Actually, they're asking for nothing more than leadership. Everyone is looking at you for that, Prime Minister. After all, the others may or may not want to solve it. I won't say it's simple. It is certainly not easy, because some call the airport file with a great sense of melodrama already the new BHV. Every government in our country wants something different. The Brussels government has strict noise standards. She's got a strong file. After all, the quality of life for the people of Brussels is important, but also the quality of life for the inhabitants of the Brussels border. For this reason a conflict of interest has been invoked by Flanders. At federal level, the Minister responsible, Mr Bellot, is engaged in a round of consultations, of which we have still not seen any results. This morning the Minister for Work, Mr Peeters, would have found the solution. He has discovered that a procedural error has been made. Instead of discussing this with his fellow Members, he sent a letter and already reported it in the newspapers. So there is another round of bickering about this difficult dossier, while thousands of workers remain concerned. Mr Prime Minister, I have just one question for you. I would like you to deblock the file and do so quickly. You indicated that you would organise a consultation session on 20 February. I sincerely hope that you will be able to transcend the various interests and that you will go for the best solutions on behalf of the tens of thousands of workers so that everyone can keep their jobs. Last week, tournée minérale started and a lot of people participate in it. Well, I would ask everyone to add a little water to the wine so that we can find the best solution. Prime Minister, how will you solve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know the story. The airport is in the line of fire, jobs are on the slopes, airlines are threatening to leave. In the meantime, we are waiting for a solution to the airport dossier in the form of an airport agreement which will have to redistribute the nuisance between Flanders and Brussels in a balanced way. Mr Prime Ministers, we have heard several of your ministers speaking, but that does not bring us any closer to a solution. The file is incredibly important for the economy, and therefore for the government. After all, the impact of job losses at the airport is many times that of Ford Genk, many times that of Caterpillar. So I cannot imagine that there are groups in the hemisphere, who simply agree that these jobs are being lost and which set as a higher objective that jobs should disappear at the airport. I appeal to the parties, Flemish or French speaking, that have ministers in the Brussels government, so both to the PS, the cdH, Open Vld and CD&V: make this work. Prime Minister, I think it is absolutely important that you draw the dossier to your attention and that you come forward with actions. I believe that our citizens also expect you to find solutions. My questions are actually very simple. Are you taking over the file? Will you stand up as the defender of the jobs, jobs, jobs at the airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u21	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the government of Brussels is responsible for enforcing a 1999 order. All the Brussels government, the majority in Brussels, including sp.a., vld and CD&V! This is reflected in the Brussels government's policy statement. So not two speeches! Not one in Brussels and one here! Let's start with this to clarify your position! Moreover, all Brussels mayors, all parties involved, including the mayors MR, who often demanded even more pugnacity from the Brussels government in this case, called for the full application of the Gosuin decree and called for the generalisation of the ban on night flights from Brussels-National airport. All Brussels mayors, all Brussels municipal majorities combined! And among them are the parties that have spoken today. So what are we coming with? With the reality that the federal government itself does not comply with a royal decree of June 2004. What does the Royal Order granting the national airport operating licence to the public limited company BIAC say? Article 34: "The holder shall respect and enforce, in the course of its operation at Brussels-National Airport, the acoustic standards laid down by the Brussels-Capital Region and the Flemish Region, after consultation with the Federal State. These standards have been the subject of consultation with all the Governments of that country at the time. The Gosuin decree has been validated by all national courts, including the Court of Cassation, including the Court of Justice of the European Union, which did not accept your argument, Mr Peeters, of non-applicability for non-notification. So your argument is late and irrelevant. It is purely dilatory. Prime Minister, I therefore ask you to comply with a royal order that the federal government itself guarantees and ensures that acoustic standards are respected. There are solutions, including the ban on night flights. Quietness applies to everyone wherever you live. The right to sleep to work well the next day is part of the right to health. There is another solution: back by 1,800 meters, runway 25L and many fewer people will be flown both in the periphery and in Brussels. But that requires another political courage!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u22	Mr Prime Minister, I share the concerns of the other colleagues in relation to Zaventem. I'm a resident of Zaventem myself. There are 20 000 people working at the airport, 40 000 in the vicinity of the airport. It is a dramatic situation that airlines have said this week that they are changing runways and going to Charleroi or abroad. A lot of jobs are in danger. That problem needs to be solved. I have heard various parties here, but all the parties, including Mr Maingain, have butter on their heads in this dossier. A long discussion took place between 2000 and 2005, also with Mr Landuyt and Mr Anciaux. Verhofstadt also had a lot of problems with it. We've had problems with it, too. Everyone's got butter on their heads. Let us not turn this into a party political issue. You are facing a very difficult task, Prime Minister. Anyone who thinks they can solve it on a whim is mistaken. I can only give you one piece of advice: stay as close as possible to the use of historic jobs. Etienne Schouppe had managed to achieve a certain calm for three or four years, between 2007 and 2010. Do not change the historical use of jobs, because then you will be in trouble. Minister Peeters pointed out this morning that noise standards were wrong. There's a lot of improvisation. They impose noise standards, but that is what technical regulations are for. There is also a European directive on this and the dossier had to be notified to the European Commission. What is the procedure, Minister Peeters? Failure to notify also prevents the standards from being applicable in the following weeks, if the conflict of interest ends. However, that is only temporary, for three or six months. I can only call on you to find solutions, Prime Minister. Don't think of it as a matter of Brussels versus Flanders. That's a totally wrong approach. The historical use of jobs must be taken into account. That's where mistakes have taken place over the past few years. In this respect, solutions can be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a difficult dossier. In recent years, we have experienced problems and misery in our country on a regular basis in this file. As I said last time, it is very important in that file that I share that view to take into account the economic importance of the airport. I remember with you, after last year's tragic attack, the severe economic effects, not just for Brussels, but for our country. This shows the important role the airport plays at the economic level. I have also taken note with you of the potential impact on the jobs, on the basis of the statements made by key actors at the airport, not only employers, but also workers and their representatives. Of course, we must also take this into account. I am convinced of the reality for the people who live close to the airport. For both Brussels and Flanders and Wallonia, public health issues of their inhabitants in connection with this airport must also be taken into account. It is therefore necessary to combine two principles which are not spontaneously naturally compatible. If they were, we'd have found a solution for a very long time. And so, obviously, the will is to make progress on the subject by also taking into account judicial developments. That has been mentioned and I share that reasoning. In recent times, a number of judicial developments have been recorded through actions that have also helped to reduce the ability of federal governments or federated entities to manoeuvre. You have to be aware of that. To be quite clear, of course, the desire is to make every effort to try to bring together views on both issues. On the one hand, there is an issue related to the Brussels Decree on noise standards and the application decided by the Brussels government. It is its sovereignty to apply strictly, without any further tolerance, which leads to the reactions of the economic sectors concerned. So the first point is the noise standards decree. On the other hand, the question of the vliegwet, the question of roads, arises. But even when an agreement on a vliegwet is reached within the federal government, this does not yet resolve the issue of noise standards, without an agreement to adapt noise standards. It is necessary to measure this element, which is an element of common sense, that some – Mr.Maingain – give the feeling of sweeping with a back of the hand. It is important to integrate this dimension as well. In summary, a conflict of interest procedure was initiated by the Flemish Region against the Brussels government. There's a delay. These are our institutions. On February 20, 2017, a consultation committee will be held and we are working intensively, with the minister in charge, to try to examine how to bring views closer together. Invitations were issued to federated entities to organize working meetings and assess short-, medium- and long-term progress that can be achieved. I'm lucid. That's a difficult file, a challenge. I have absolute certainty. If everyone keeps to their point of view, it will be impossible to find a solution. To find a solution, everyone has to be brave. In order to reach an intelligent compromise, it is important that everyone, the federal government and the states, is able to be brave and take a step towards a solution. This is crucial for the economy, for economic development and for the respect that must be shown to the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what the Prime Minister said. I would just like to remind you that on 27 January I received a letter from Brussels Airport stating that when the tolerance threshold will disappear on 21 February, there will be 5.5 times more fines than today, that this will have an impact on employment and that the restoration of the airport will be at risk after the dramatic attacks of 22 March. Brussels Airport has asked me to take a look at this. I have done so under my authority as Minister of Labour and Economics. We have looked at the whole procedure because, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I also have powers in terms of quality and safety, accreditation and equipment, and so on. My services have looked at everything and found that there are several directives that require a certain procedure. Especially when it comes to technical regulations, we must first report it to the European authorities and only after three months can we introduce it. That procedure is erga omnes, which means that everyone has to follow it. Wallonia has followed that procedure, but what my services have not found is that Brussels has made that notification. Following that letter, I informed my colleagues that there would be a problem if the tolerance threshold were to be abolished on 21 February and that this problem should be addressed. I agree with what the Prime Minister has underlined, namely that we must now all sit around the table in order to find a solution with open vision and without remaining in line with the present position. In the absence of notification of that tolerance threshold, there is an opportunity to find solutions with respect and consideration for the balance for all regions and all interested parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear that initiatives are being taken, bringing working parties together and converging together towards a structural solution, which is the only way to solve the problem. It is time to stop the negative coverage of Brussels Airport and turn to a positive project. All the pieces for that are on the table. There is a growth plan for Brussels Airport, a flying law in the pipeline, support from employers and trade unions and, above all, the support of the working people who want to work at Brussels Airport. My party and I support that. We will be launching positive initiatives in the coming weeks. Prime Minister, do not be distracted by the political games of a number of parties. Go for your purpose and your project, namely jobs, jobs, jobs. Lets keep our airport jobs .
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have the impression that the more everyone calls that no political games should be played, the more fun people have in these games. However, Prime Minister, we are talking here about the 60 000 jobs. I'm glad you're aware of the seriousness of the problem. I'm glad you're explaining that everyone needs a little water to come up with a solution. Prime Minister, I would like to emphasise the following. You have explained that the situation is complicated and not easy. However, a few months ago, the airport workers stopped working because of the workload. At that time, we held a debate here in Parliament and determined how important it was for the airport to remain in our country. It was then argued that these workers were in the process of destroying the future of the airport and having a negative impact on it. Mr Prime Minister, I would just like to make the following point. If you do not get out of the Consultation Committee of 20 February 2017, it will not be the employees. However, they will be the victims of the story. I therefore hope that the Consultation Committee will succeed on 20 February 2017, will be able to transcend all political interests and reach a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, I think there is indeed only one way forward, and that is to conclude another airport agreement. This is the best guarantee that these 60 000 jobs can be retained and even expanded, but that requires willingness to sit around the table and scope for consultation in all areas. Today we find that February 20th is like a knife on the table to give the death mark. That knife has to be removed and an agreement has to be negotiated. I am therefore counting on Brussels to recognise that it is necessary to give room for this agreement to help the economy, rather than pushing it backwards and stabbing it in the back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u28	Mr President, the Gosuin Order has been known since 1999. All the authorities in that country had ample time to comply with the obligation to comply with that order. As I recalled, the federal government itself provided for it in the operating licence. No one's been caught off guard. All Brussels authorities are asking for its application. And let us stop opposing respect for sleep – not only of the Brusselsites but of all the inhabitants concerned by the aerial overflight – and so-called economic interests! I have taken a list of all the important European airports. There is not one that does not limit night flights, or even completely forbids them. I can go through this list: from London Heathrow, which is further away from London than Brussels-National from Brussels, to Milan or Luxembourg, night flights are prohibited. Will it be explained to me that in all these countries where there are restrictions on the night activity of airports close to major cities, there would be job losses, economic threats to airport activity? Of course not! There is simply the respect due to work. And what is the right working condition? First of all, to be well-rested to report to his place of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for their reply. In Parliament, we will have to find a solution across the borders of the parties and the regions in the coming months. I've been going through that file for 15 years day in and day out, because I live in Sterrebeek, near the runway. We must be able to rise above ourselves and provide solutions. I repeat that these solutions must be very close to historical job use. It is, of course, possible to work out a number of schedules from today to tomorrow, using other runways, with the result that there will again be tens of thousands of new obstacles. Such a compromise will immediately give rise to enormous protests and will only last for a few weeks, as we have seen with the plans of former ministers Landuyt, Anciaux and Durant. For example, the ban on night flights in the long term has actually only led to more night flights, because no solution has been found. I therefore propose that we try to find solutions beyond the borders of the parties and the regions. It is indeed crucial for our region that these 60,000 jobs are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, three cheers, after decades of ignoring, looking away and relativizing, we have finally discovered wahabism, salafism and jihadism thanks to a leaked report by the OCAD. Salafism is the main ideological undercurrent of Islam terrorism and terrorist organisations such as IS and Al-Qaeda. For 30 years, the Belgian Government has actively collaborated with the countries that are the inventors, the guardians, the defenders and not to mention the financiers of wahabism and salafism. It is a pity that Minister Reynders is not here today. Prime Minister, we were and are the best friends with Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. In view of that...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u32	Mr Van Rompuy, today we are talking about Saudi Arabia. It's about Qatar today. It's about Kuwait. Those are the financiers of terrorism, of wahabism and of Salafism who attack us, not the Syrian Government! If you prefer not to be with Syria, but with Saudi Arabia and Qatar, say so now. But you don't say anything anymore. That's what I expected. Prime Minister, we were and are with these and other governments the best friends of Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait. To that end, we tolerate the flow of money, propaganda and the influx of Salafists. In exchange for oil, trade and a lot of money, our government collaborates with the financiers and ideological inspirators of terrorism. Bet nothing's gonna happen to the OCAD report. Nothing, because hypocrisy is also celebrating today's high tide. There will be some bold statements as we are used to, but no further action will be taken. Mr Van Rompuy, the secular Syria, with 2 000 Christians who can live their religion unharmed, must apparently be punished and boycotted while fighting bravely against IS and Al Qaïda. But Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait, they remain out of the question. They always go free for money and oil. My question is obvious: close the salafistic bookshops and mosques, including the central mosque in Brussels, which you once gave to Saudi Arabia. Point out their imams. Stop the money flows. Organise an immigration stop à la Trump or a Salafist stop for countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait. In short, stop hypocrisy and close the borders for radical Islam.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to lower the noise level of your conversations a little bit. We will have to set standards for it again. We are now listening to Mr Bonte.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I found it rather strange and, to put it mildly, worrying that the highest security authority in this country, the National Security Council, is, as far as I know, the nuclear cabinet and the Justice and Defence Ministers are unable to keep a secret or discreet report of the OCAD in their chambers. I say this because it is also remarkable that the report is a few months old, as I have heard from the Minister of the Interior. Mrs Rutten, President of a majority party, suddenly saw the fight against Salafism as a major challenge a few weeks ago. Mrs Turtelboom is presenting today a resolution calling for what should have happened a long time ago. If the government had implemented its own measures proposed on 18 November 2015, then perhaps another report could be written. Prime Minister, the way in which this has come out provides a new label and gives people, like the previous speaker, the opportunity to put forward once again the flattest racism and generalizations such as "one pot of water'. Where there is daily struggle against radicalism, where Muslims in mosques and associations, in classes, schools and sports clubs are fighting against this extreme interpretation of a form of Islam, the extra pressure is being exerted by the plagiarism that is being used today. Prime Minister, I would like to insist that we do what we are asked to do, namely to prevent the financing of these extremist organisations. Mr Metsu, there are a number of proposals on this subject in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. I understand tomorrow's meeting was cancelled. Maybe we should get started tomorrow. I'm ready to start the discussion. It is, by the way, a discussion that was launched by the government itself in November 2015. Apart from that, Prime Minister, I would like you to look at the way in which the Security Council operates, that you are primarily working on recommendations, but above all that you support the Muslim organisations and mosques that are fighting extremism today by ensuring that they are recognised, that there are training courses and that there is funding for the screening mosques. That's the only answer we need today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u35	Prime Minister, this report by the OCAM, whose good leaves appeared in the press a few days ago, contradicts what the Minister of the Interior said when I asked him a few weeks ago about the role of the great mosque and Wahhabism. He told us at that time that the role of the great mosque in our country was not of particular concern. This report, which comes after the worrying remarks made by the head of State Security last week in the Public Commission of Terrorist Attacks, confirms the expansion of Wahhabism in our country. It confirms the threat to social cohesion and our values as Wahhabism attempts to divert part of the Muslim community from our values and principles. It confirms the role of foreign countries in the expansion of Wahhabism, particularly Saudi Arabia and Qatar, through the great mosque. Finally, it confirms the link between Wahhabism and terrorism – it is important to recall it. This is indeed an extremely worrying report, which is not surprising and which recalls a series of facts. Prime Minister, when will we finally take this issue of Wahhabism seriously enough? When will we finally cut off the financial flows that were revealed, in particular, by the head of State Security last week? When will we finally stop the grip on the Islam of Belgium on the part of foreign countries that actually want discord between Belgians from different communities and which, beyond Belgium, actually want to impose a medieval ideology on all communities? When are you finally going to take the necessary action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is quite clear that everyone is talking about the alarming report on the marching Salafism, the violent Salafism, which we really need to define as a life-threatening ideology for one purpose: to destroy our present society, with all its values and standards. That's right. It sounds harsh, but it's become clear today. The Salafists work and operate like a cult that unleashes a virus on a community. However, our community consists of Hindus, Muslims, Catholics, anarchists, Jews and so on. The salafists are targeting that community. They literally say that Islam should not adapt to society, but that society should adapt to Islam from 1 400 years ago. In such a vision, homosexuals may be thrown from towers and women may be beaten and raped. We would all lose our civil rights. No one wants that. Nothing or no one will tolerate that. On the surface there have been signs on the wall for a long time, but the deeper we dig now, the more hallucinating that industry appears to be. Prime Minister, how acute and how big is that problem in your eyes? Yesterday I read that there is an integrated action plan. Is there anything else you can tell us about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I am pleased to be able to ask you about this issue so that you can shed some light on the OCAM report that the press talked about yesterday. I believe that the Monitoring Committee of the R Committee will be able to examine it more carefully within the next eight days. However, I would like to take stock of the situation with you. Even though this information is intriguing, there is nothing new in all this. For years, our political formation, the MR, has called for strong and concrete measures to combat hate preachers – to better monitor them, in any case; strong measures for a path of compulsory integration; strong measures for strengthened control of the real scourge of indoctrination; strong measures also to combat political Islamism. I am aiming at a particular party here. We continue, Prime Minister, to support these measures, because we know that they are necessary for the adoption, the deployment, the spread in Belgium of an Islam of the Enlightenment, an Islam that will first and foremost help our moderate Muslim fellow citizens. We are in favour of that. At the moment, the committee of inquiry into the attacks is continuing its work on a aspect to which we were very attentive: this is precisely the aspect of radicalism, our group will be very attentive to the conclusions to be made by this committee of inquiry on this aspect. However, a number of hearings already give us reason to believe that the elements of the OCAM report are well founded. Prime Minister, this report confirms that in the face of religious radicalism, all public authorities in this country must coordinate and strengthen their services. I say 'all public authorities', whether at the federal level, at the Community level, at the regional level and up to the municipal level. Because it is at all levels that the control of mosques and religious and cultural satellite associations must be made. Prime Minister, it is with this in mind that the National Security Council has already taken a number of initiatives. It is also with this in mind that your Government adopted last July the circular on which I would now like to question you, aimed at combating hate preachers and their places of action. Can we, a few months later, make an initial evaluation of this circular, see if it has helped identify hate preachers, and how many? I would also like to ask you how many people are registered in the OCAM Joint Information Box. Finally, what are the coordinated missions of the Interior and Justice to suppress Wahhabi activities in cultural and cultural places close to mosques? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u38	Prime Minister, the OCAM report on the rise of Salafism in Belgium, published yesterday in the press, is of particular concern. This doctrine – the most extreme of Islam, because it is contrary to our values and anti-Western – is unfortunately proliferating within our mosques and Islamic centers. That's absolutely disturbing. In addition, this reality echoes the hearings we held this week in a committee of inquiry into the 22 March attacks. Indeed, specialists in Islam have explained to us that Belgium is lagging behind with regard to the apprehension of the Salafist phenomenon, in terms of supervision, the fight against radicalism and, above all, the development of a more positive and progressive counter-speech around Islam. But this speech is still embryonic at home. They mentioned, a contrario, the cases of Denmark and Canada, where the efforts made by the public authorities are effective. What concrete measures do you intend to take not only to stem radicalism, but also to develop this positive discourse about Islam that young authors, too little heard in our country, are developing? Finally, Prime Minister, I want to ask you about your understanding of the fight against terrorism. Indeed, with your government, you have fought to install the PNR, whose aim is to monitor the 11 million Belgians as soon as they take the train or plane. You also want to dismantle CPAS and force social workers to denounce individuals based on clues of radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u39	You're against it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u40	Yes, we're against it and we'll explain it next week. That's what you're putting in place. I want to tell you that, during this time, Salafist groups are proliferating in Belgium. Prime Minister, is this your idea of a targeted and effective fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u41	Prime Minister, we have been living in a society for decades where religion is actually a private matter. It is not normal for a religion to weigh so heavily on a society that it causes a society problem. That's what's happening here now. We're dealing with some sort of salafistic missionary device. This creates unrest among the population, not wrongly. We can close our eyes again, but what I see happening reminds me more and more of Michel Houellebecq's book Soumission. That's what we see happening. We do not want that for Flanders. What's in the OCAD report? The OCAD report states that the divisions between peaceful salafism, political salafism and jihadist salafism have disappeared and that they have actually become communicating vessels. As always, thanks to the brilliant sixth state reform, we are particularly well equipped to combat it. We have made something of it in which the recognition of worship services is at the federal level and the recognition of church communities at the regional level. Who ever thought of that? That of course means that there is a bickering between Minister Geens and Minister Homans about whether or not access to the State Security Reports is available in the recognition of mosques. If we do not have access to the state security reports for the recognition of a mosque, what are we actually doing? Then we're just playing with our own security. There is a huge problem with the place of religions in our society. That's not a new problem. We've already known that. We have experienced that Catholic religion put pressure on and was firmly present in political life. We have put that behind us. My group clearly does not want that to happen again. The separation of Church and State applies to all religions. The equality of men and women applies to all religious beliefs. If someone wants to go through life in a salafistic way, they can do so in the Gulf States, but not in Flanders. We must make that very clear. We must make that very clear. I have a few questions, Prime Minister. I have read that the OCAD report has already been discussed in the National Security Council and that a number of proposals have been requested from the security and intelligence services. Anything come out of that yet? More generally, what is the government going to do about this enormous social problem that we are facing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the OCAD report confirms our worst suspicions. More and more mosques and Islamic centers in our country are under the influence of Salafism. Salafism is an extremist reading of Islam, contrary to modernity, which rejects the separation between Church and State, which does not accept equality between men and women and which is hostile to democracy. The existence of such extremism is very worrying to us. What is totally unacceptable, however, is that these ideas are actively supported from abroad by grants, scholarships, travel and the import of publications. These come from abroad, in particular from Saudi Arabia. A report by the European Parliament refers to 10 billion. The security of the State has discussed 1.8 million here in the parliamentary committee, just for the big mosque. Other reports refer to EUR 4.5 million. We must understand what is happening under our eyes. Foreign actors sponsor with huge financial resources extreme ideas designed to disrupt and undermine our society, to prevent the integration and development of a European Islam and to create a hostile climate against our universal Western values, where the step towards violence and terror is small. Such propaganda, financed from abroad, cannot accept any European country. Prime Minister, I read that the National Security Council is working on a report and an action plan. I am particularly pleased with that. Is there anything you can tell us about its contents? Shall we uncover and dry out the money supply to Salafism? Do you, in particular, also consult with your European colleagues? The problem must also be addressed at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, the only and correct answer we can and must give to the OCAD report is that we must create an Islam embedded in our society and in our democratic rule of law. That is why we must, of course, drain the money flows from Saudi Arabia, from the Gulf States to certain places of prayer, to certain non-governmental organizations. An important weapon is, according to our group, the recognition of mosques. The recognition of mosques enables our services to exercise better control over them, which, of course, leads to greater transparency, which we need so much today. The twenty mosques for which advice has now been given to the State's security must be recognized as a matter of urgency. The recognition of mosques is a first important step, but we must go further. We must look for instruments to cover up illegal places of prayer, and we must tackle hate preachers. Of course, the government is taking a lot of initiatives in this regard. In the Committee on Terrorism there are many proposals on the financing of extremism and radicalism. We will deal with these legislative proposals together in the coming weeks and months. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with a very dangerous trend against which we must act vigorously. It cannot be the intention that we should have economic interests or other considerations in this story and align our policies accordingly. Prime Minister, I come to my three specific questions. Firstly, what diplomatic and economic initiatives will you take to limit influence from Saudi Arabia, from the Gulf States? Secondly, this is a very wide issue within the European Union. What will you do to put this problem on the European map? Thirdly, not insignificantly, what role will this government play with regard to the recognition of mosques, which we have been waiting for so long?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reports, of which excerpts have been published in the press, highlight what we were thinking. Indeed, it has been a few years since we felt that there is a strategy to try to spread a number of extremely hateful speeches that are contrary to the fundamental values of the rule of law and democracy. It is the government's choice to consider the situation in full transparency and to see how clear initiatives and concrete measures can be taken to provide the best response as soon as possible. That is our ambition. I confirm that a few weeks ago, in December, we had a first important discussion with the Security Council. The security services were given the mandate to develop an operational plan, in consultation with the Länder and with the municipalities which also have an important role to play in this case. This means that at federal level, together with Ministers Jambon and None, we will do our best to act operationally against a strategy of hatred which is completely contradictory to our universal and fundamental values. We do have the ambition to continue to make progress. As some have pointed out, we have launched a package of 30 measures to combat terrorism, radicalism and the questioning of these democratic values that are of great interest to us. As you mentioned, in the course of the past summer, a Plan R circular was developed in order to adopt a common strategy in the fight against hate preachers, in order to adopt a stronger strategy at the departure of the various intelligence services, in particular to be able to act preventively in the strongest possible way. You have to tell the truth! We are, of course, faced with a difficulty and there is a very strong, very determined ambition – which I feel beyond the majority-opposition borders – to act on such an essential subject. This is a first point I wanted to mention, and I have no doubt that we can work with many parliamentarians who are convinced of the need to act. I am pleased to have heard a number of Members with a clear message. Once again, let it be clear that there is no doubt in our minds about this. We live in a rule of law, a democracy. We share values that allow us, regardless of our political, philosophical, religious convictions, our sexual orientation, and whatever the differences between us, to live together with respect through this common foundation of fundamental values. Under no circumstances and at any time can we accept that this common foundation of fundamental values is being undermined and challenged by hate speech. This hatred is in my view a form of totalitarianism. It is about imposing a way of life that we do not want, because we are proud of our universal values inherited from the Enlightenment. Yes, we must act at European level because it is not a Belgian problem, but those who have said so are right. We must work to ensure that an Islam of the Enlightenment develops, totally compatible, without any ambiguity, with democratic values and those of the rule of law. Under no circumstances is it a fight against Islam. Mr Dewinter, that makes a big difference between you and us! You're racist, you're xenophobic. You admire a mass murderer. That makes the big difference between you and us! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u45	If the politically correct hemisphere is applauded, perhaps we can get back to the essence. The essence is that today, a great deal of lip service has been given to the fight against radical Islam, a battle that my party has been fighting for thirty years and for which you have always remained deaf. Otherwise, we would not have known the problems we are facing today. You've been looking the other way. You have gone naïvely multiculturally on the road that was yours, and so you are also responsible for the problems that have now become unmanageable. Let us not be hypocritical today, Prime Minister. Last year it was a member of the Royal House, followed by ministers and politicians who went to Saudi Arabia to bake sweet sandwiches with the same sheiks, Mr Van Rompuy, Prime Minister, who financed Salafism and Wahabism here with the money of Saudi Arabia, Qatar. That is the reality. You can laugh at that, but that's the way it is. Thinking that you can now escape by promoting a moderate Islam in our country is an illusion, because the Salafist principles are like a chick in the egg, in the Islamic doctrine and are inexplicably connected. Only the banning of Islam, the banning of Islamism, the closing of our borders for those who come from the Muslim countries, also from the wahabist countries, as is happening in the US of America under the leadership of Donald Trump, can and must be a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u46	Mr President, I would like to distance myself very much from the content of the previous speaker. That does not alter, Prime Minister, that I think we see a form of schizophrenia among the majority in this House. First of all, I would like to say that you have not responded to my criticism that it is curious that such a report is leaking from the National Security Council. Apparently, it is not a problem that this happens at a time when a committee of inquiry in Parliament is dealing with terrorism, and that there is a Committee P and a Committee I. I think that is a problem, as the previous speaker said. Prime Minister, you are right, and you are partly repeating the call you made after the attacks in Paris and in Brussels when you ask for solutions to be found across party boundaries, across opposition and majority boundaries. I have just heard Mrs Turtelboom, Mr Yüksel and the Vice-President of the Committee on Terrorism say that we must stop funding. Mr President, Prime Minister, there have been legislative proposals along these lines for months on the agenda of the Counter-Terrorism Committee, but we cannot discuss them. I note, moreover, that tomorrow's committee meeting has already been cancelled. Finally, take it from me, Prime Minister, that we will never win the fight against radicalism without the support of the Muslim community itself, day after day in all places, in all cities of this country. A signal of support is needed for all those people, teachers, mosque workers, youth workers, with a Muslim background that prevents young people from falling into a trap day after day. That is why it is so urgent to eliminate discrimination between religions and to recognise and subsidise regular mosques.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u47	Prime Minister, the good news today is that the alarm is ringing on all benches. We're not in denial anymore. There is this call, this cry from all parliamentarians to preserve our social cohesion, to ensure that the values you have spoken of, those to which we are all attached, the values of freedom, respect, dignity, prevail with respect for everyone. It is a fight against the total opposite of the extreme right speech that we have heard today; in contrast to this speech of hatred, intolerance, violence and conflict between the different communities of the country. It is to this fight to which you referred that we are holding, and that is why it is important today to take concrete measures. You have in your hands provisions and devices that allow you to close off the officiaries that spread Wahhabism. You know, as well as your Minister of Justice whom I have asked about this, that non-accounting NSOs can be dissolved, that those who receive more than 100 000 euros from abroad can be dissolved as well. This is particularly the case of the Cinquantenaire Mosque, but not only. There are instruments that allow you to act immediately but other provisions will have to be put in place so that we can see this Islam of lights that we all care so much about. It is urgent and important to put an end to these foreign flows of which Mr Yüksel spoke. The mosques must be recognized, but it will also have to be possible, in the long term, to ensure that the mosques-garages, these clandestine mosques, those that do not want to be recognized because they want to continue to receive international funding, are also prohibited.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u48	Mr President, it is indeed very important to wipe out these financial flows. For example, our group is currently working on a proposal to stop hawala banking, underground banking. We are indeed taking the time to come up with a good text for the pins. What we do not do is submit half-hearted legislative proposals which then receive a negative opinion from, for example, the privacy committee. I am referring to your proposal, Mr Bonte. What do you want me to do? Should I convene a committee tomorrow to vote away your half-hearted proposal, or may I give you time to make the necessary improvements and then perhaps and hopefully come to a good compromise?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u49	Mr Metsu, you cannot expect me to always produce perfect texts. Hence the possibility of amending texts in a parliamentary committee. I have never formulated a taboo in relation to amendments. In the meantime, I have been asking for years to put a number of legislative proposals, such as the merger of police zones in the capital, on the agenda, but you refuse to do so. And I can go on like this for a while. All I see is that the committee of inquiry scheduled for tomorrow has been cancelled again because it does not fit in with your agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u50	Unlikely! What we must not lose sight of is that this is an en-en-story. It's not just about financing terror. If we reveal the flows of funding, we must not think that the problem has suddenly been solved. For example, we must also uncover the channels of communication. We will continue to work on this. I can assure everyone here that the N-VA Group will support any well-prepared and well-motivated legislative proposal, whether it comes from the majority or from the opposition. We are counting on you to do the same with our proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u51	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. The government must continue to act, we are aware, and we know that the government will continue to act! We have to face things. This Parliament also has a responsibility to assume in this matter. This includes working in a committee of inquiry, working in a committee to combat terrorism. This work takes time, sometimes too much time. I hope that we will be able to adopt together the useful texts that will enable us to fight against what we all denounce. Colleagues, this is about our public safety and respect for our values.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u52	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Let us be clear, Salafism represents the same cancer for our society as the hate speech of the far right and Mr Dewinter! That's why a counter-speech... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u53	It's the same thing! You're on the same level! A counter-speech is fundamental! The development of a counter-speech, with authors advocating a progressive, open and positive vision of Islam, is necessary. These authors exist. They often speak to younger audiences, but they are very little present in our libraries, in our Islamic centres, in the training given especially to Islamic advisers or imams. This is one of the recommendations made yesterday by the experts we heard in the committee of inquiry. I really wish we could put it on the table. It has also been said to us that it must be done with people of trust. It is a fundamental element in re-establishing these radicalised young people in their neighbourhood, in their community here in Belgium. Finally, we know the real difficulties in prisons. The Minister of Justice also knows that there is a need to strengthen the means of accompaniment for prisoners who are radicalised or identified as such. There is a need to strengthen support for Islamic consultants, as well as supervision when leaving prison. Indeed, radicalised people are known to be frequently released from prison and it is important that supervision be as effective and as strong as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u54	Prime Minister, my group is not going to have tea or coffee with Mr Assad. We fully share everything you have said about the values of the Enlightenment. Not a hundred percent, but a thousand percent. Today, scientific research shows that two out of three Belgians, Muslims, are no longer welcome. This means that there is a social problem in our society, a major social problem. If these figures are correct, then it is not true, as the chairman of the largest party says, that we do not have a problem with Islam, but that there is a problem within Islam. What a sophism, what a lack of courage to name things. What a lack of courage. If that is the figures, then we have a major social problem here. We can still take action against this, and we must take action against it. We must dare to defend our values. We can do that, too. No one is obliging us to recognize mosques. No one is obliging us to allow foreign funding of religions. We must clearly give religions the place they have in our society, especially as a private matter. Everyone is welcome here and everyone here can experience their religion in a normal way. That must be very clear. What is not possible, however, is that we want to experience a form of salafism here. It can't be. If we want to do that, we have to do it elsewhere. We must then do so in the Gulf States. In any case, my group does not want a soumission here, nor a submission as described in the Houellebecq book.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u55	Mr Prime Minister, it is clear that the government recognises and wishes to address this problem, and I thank you for that. I am glad that we in this House unanimously, on all banks, recognise and want to tackle the problem. I therefore ask you to give the debate on certain legislative proposals, which could not yet be voted on because they may still need to be legally refined, and the debate on other texts, every opportunity. That's what society expects today. She expects us here together with all the democrats in society to make a fist for our principles. We fought for a very long time for the separation between Church and State. I believe that today, therefore, it is only logical that we should fight for the separation of faith and foreign finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, citizens expect a strong signal from the government, as well as from Parliament, to curb Salafism and extremism. There are a lot of proposals for this in committee. The government has also realised a lot of things and there is still a lot in the pipeline. We need to speed up all these proposals. Prime Minister, our Muslim fellow citizens are the greatest victims of radicalism, extremism and terrorism. With our proposals and ideas on the fight against Salafism, extremism and so on, we absolutely need to engage in dialogue with the Muslim community. We must involve them in this. Only in this way will we be able to provide a strong response to this danger to society as a whole and to give a strong signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u57	Minister, do we want to continue to have medicine that is accessible to as many people as possible, with quality care, or not? This is the question that the President of the Belgian Cardiology Society raised today in the press, while a congress of more than 900 cardiologists is currently meeting in Brussels. This is an essential question for the future, Minister, whose answer can be frightening given the substantial savings you have made in our health care. You know, a wind of revolt is rumbling. The day before yesterday, doctors and pharmacists yesterday, physiotherapists and dentists, and today it is the cardiologists who rise to the niche to denounce a lack of investment in the field. And yet, Minister, you know better than anyone else, the therapeutic advances in cardiology have been impressive in recent years. They helped save more patients, but also reduced their stay in hospital and thus significantly reduced the indirect costs of health care insurance. I will take only one example, building, Madam Minister: the transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), for which the valve is reimbursed but not the act to put it in place. It is therefore up to the hospitals to take care of the resources to pay the anesthesiologist, the specialist nurse, the operating room and the rest. In view of the dark budget cuts, which are impressive, we find ourselves faced with a choice of society calling for and perhaps stigmatizing. Minister, anger is everywhere, fears are on all sides. How do you respond to these cardiologists? Will access to cardiology still be possible for all patients in the future? Do you really want us to find ourselves in England, where the health care system derails for lack of sufficient funding? Do you really want, as in some countries, to provide the necessary care such as setting up a pacemaker only below a certain age? Finally, minister, do you really want our doctors to present the bill to the patients before providing them with the care to ensure that they are, yes or no, able to pay for it? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u58	Minister, when you decided to make significant savings in the health care budget, you told us that the patient would not be affected. And yet, we're far from it. We talked a lot about antibiotics, nasal sprays, stomach ulcers. You were forced to recognize him. But there's also everything you never talk about. Major decisions have now been taken on this; we know that very well. I'm talking about anti-inflammatory drugs, osteoporosis treatments, blood pressure treatments, severe asthma drugs, logopedia, CPAP, particularly severe ulcer dressings, or kine for patients with fibromyalgia. These are just a few examples. Every day, patients and health care providers sound the alarm bell. Today, there is this cry of cardiologists in "The Evening". I quote: "We no longer give the best care to the Belgian patient". It is not the opposition that says it, it is the actors in health care. So, Madam Minister, I would like to make myself the ambassador and relay of all these health actors and all those patients who pull the alarm bell every day again and again. We're going straight into the wall, minister. That's enough! You can't keep pretending everything's okay. I want to tell you, "Remember. Now make a commitment to stop making blind savings to compensate for the state's slippages." Yes to the reforms, yes to the effective use of every euro, but money needs to be re-engaged in health care and innovation, so that quality benefits and therefore, each patient. Minister, you need to make this commitment today and get the government to change its strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u59	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think the setting was set. Today and tomorrow, the Belgian Cardiology Society meets. It is an annual convention, at which - Mr Senesael said - more or less 900 members meet. I think that every year, for some time, a number of questions have arisen and actually come back to the carpet. There have been two more specific problems concerning reimbursements, among others, of TAVI because cardiology as such has progressed considerably in recent years. New technologies and treatment methods have emerged. These methods and technologies represent a cost. I talked about TAVI. We can also talk about BNP, a blood marker that detects heart failure. Minister, I think we should not just turn around the pot. There may be one or the other question that we really need to ask ourselves and that we could have asked ourselves for some time. Clearly, at this time, do you think that today, in 2017, there is an opportunity to consider a long-term policy or vision in this specific area? I recognize that in other areas, the question must also be asked. Would it be possible to envisage a working group, a task force, why not with INAMI, with the National Centre of Hospital Expertise or with the KCE, which could perhaps allow us to identify a number of avenues for the future for the benefit of our cardiologists?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u60	Thank you for your questions, Mr. Senesael, Mrs. Fonck, Mr. Thiéry. It is true that the aging of the population and technological advances increase our health care needs. Without fundamental intervention, the health care budget will be unsustainable in the future. Major reforms have long been needed. That's why we're working on a review of hospital funding. The amendment of the Act on the exercise of health care so that it can be better organized and an audit of the nomenclature is also foreseen. The patient is always at the heart of the policy's concerns. As a result, we aim for accessible and quality care. Tariff security is a priority. In this context, I continue to encourage the application of the consultation model and we give the members of this model every opportunity to reach approved decisions. However, all actors in the health care sector will also have to make an effort to ensure that care remains accessible. Kinesitherapists, doctors and nurses, in short, all caregivers must take their responsibilities. As far as cardiologists are concerned, I was actually present this morning at the 36th annual congress of the Association of Belgian Cardiologists. The president invited me to be asked a few questions. Since 29 per cent of deaths in our country are caused by cardiovascular diseases, health care is investing heavily in this area. Special efforts have been made for primary and secondary prevention of cardiac pathologies. For example, the budget for antihypertensive drugs is already €262 million and €126 million for statins. We have fewer than six interventional cardiology hospitals and 28 cardiac surgery services. I am aspired to networks of specialists and specialized centres rather than to create several smaller centres. It is essential that the expertise is concentrated and that it can be continuously developed within an interdisciplinary framework. Of course, we are ensuring that our patients have access to the best innovative techniques, as this is a highly specialized field. New techniques and new medicines are always discussed in a special INAMI committee. If there is scientific evidence, the technique will enter into account for a refund and the money will have to be found. Mrs. Fonck, you say that every day the alarm bell is fired. But every day too, people now get a refund for medicines or techniques for which money had not been found. We have a health care system that we can truly be proud of and, if we are to maintain the quality and accessibility of health care, we will have to dare to carry out reforms. Mr Seneseal, you have taken the example of the placement of a new aortic valve by the TAVI technique. A rule has been established for the transfemoral placement of aortic valve. This is a less invasive method for valve replacement in certain vulnerable target groups for which the replacement of valves by conventional surgery is too risky. It is planned to be able to carry out 500 interventions in our country in 22 centres and four networks. The budget has been found and amounts to 10 000 euros. Centres with a lower valve replacement volume benefit from a limited intervention budget. On the other hand, before and after the intervention, although you say there is no remuneration, it is not true: all care can be reimbursed by the BMF. We found ways to pay back those valves, after we talked about it for five years. But this can only be done in specialized centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. You still feel pressured because you attack your many opponents in the media by pretending to be misunderstood and arguing that the patient is little touched by your savings. That's not true and you know it. Last week, the Plan Office said that the number of households that had postponed their health care for financial reasons quadrupled from 2008. You are attacking individual healthcare providers and customers on social media to make it appear that, in the absence of a tariff agreement, it is they who are putting the tariff security of patients at risk. That's not true, and you know it, too. The best defense is the attack. Yours lacks convincing arguments. When I got up at 3:00 this morning, I put on my tie, not knowing I was going to ask you a question. But on this tie there is a panda, the symbol of peace, wisdom, diplomacy. Minister, I invite you to use these faculties to meet your challenges. It's time to make the right company choices. I'm counting on you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u62	Minister, I can agree with you on two things. The first is that prolongation of life and therapeutic or diagnostic innovations are challenges, fundamental issues. The second is the fact that reforms - not just at the hospital level - are indispensable and necessary, provided they are aimed at improving the quality of future care. However, when you say that in the future the budget will be unsustainable, I absolutely cannot agree with you. It will be untenable from the moment you are constantly taking up the health care budget to use it for anything else, even though the amounts set out in these reforms would have to be spent to invest in diagnostic and therapeutic innovation. Moreover, the percentage of GDP allocated to the health care budget in Belgium is in the European average. Let's stop presenting health as a cost completely out of control. That is obviously not the case. Minister, cardiologists have spoken today. Others spoke yesterday. I fear, if you continue like this, that others will speak again tomorrow. The least we can do when making choices - brutal and painful choices - is to take on the policy and choices that are made, in the face of patients and health actors. It is not acceptable to pretend, to minimize, to be blind to the point of denying the reality of everyday life. Other choices are possible. You alone can decide to change course. I suggest you, on behalf of the patients, on behalf of the health actors, change course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u63	Minister, I will make a few considerations. The first thing, not least, is that you said that the solution was in consultation. This is probably a crucial aspect. We can only encourage you to speed it up. I come to a second fundamental point. Mrs Fonck, I hear your criticism of the current public health policy. You can't say everything's fine, but you can't argue that nothing's going on anymore. But that's what you do systematically! We are witnessing a disinformation campaign attacking the work undertaken by the Minister of Public Health - a campaign that is systematically relayed in the press. So, what's absolutely right to do is...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u64	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u65	Mrs Fonck, this consultation is taking place! It's happening! The problem is that you would like everything to be done before this consultation. That's what's wrong. I'll even provide proof of what I'm making. I took a little walk...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u66	Please conclude, Mr. Thiéry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u67	Mr President, I shall conclude, but there are some important points that need to be raised. I went to consult the questions that were asked on the same subject to successive public health ministers in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. During these periods, no progress was made. And you'd like, Mrs. Fonck, in two years, Minister De Block to do everything? That's not right! Minister, we ask you to stay tuned to the sector. I am thinking in particular of cardiologists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u68	Mr. Secretary of State, pomace is poisonous. Scientists from the World Health Organisation call the residue carcinogenic and hormone-disturbing. So we are sick of that product. It's poison. Glyphosate is in weed killers and is used everywhere, in agriculture, in private gardens, in parks, on sidewalks, in railway Berms, you name it. Kids play in those gardens and parks and civilians walk on those sidewalks. The use is only increasing. Current use is 260 times higher than 40 years ago. Do you know how many kilograms we're talking about? 600 000 kilograms of satsumas are sold in Belgium each year. So that's 600 000 kilograms of poison. Europe does nothing and neither does the Belgian Government. That's what we call guilty negligence. Fortunately, there are also doers in our society. Middle field organisations such as Greenpeace, BBL, Velt, La Ligue des Familles and all health insurance funds are pulling together on the alarm bell and organising a petition to raise the issue at European level. Mr Minister, through the air, water, soil, plants and food, the poison is invading us. Why doesn't the government do anything? Why don't you protect the people? Do you support this citizens' initiative and would you like to sign the petition with me? Especially, you have a lot of options. What means will you use to protect people and the environment from the use of arthropods?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u69	Ms Dedry, in June 2016, the European Commission decided to extend the authorisation for satsumas by 18 months. During that period, the European Chemicals Agency or ECHA shall carry out an in-depth analysis of the elements associated with arthropods. The European Agency's report is expected by November 2017. As soon as the advice is available, it will be analysed by our administrations, in particular the FPS Public Health Department in collaboration with the Scientific Institute for Public Health. It is on that basis that at the end of 2017 we will take a decision on whether or not to renew the authorisation for satsumas. I would also remind you of the division of competence at Belgian level in the field of plant protection products. Authorisation for the placing on the market of plant protection products on the basis of an evaluation of the health and environmental risk derivatives is a federal competence. The policy on the use of these products is a regional competence. Finally, I would like to point out that I am very vigilant and voluntarist in this regard. Almost half of the authorisations for products containing satsumas have recently been withdrawn in Belgium. In this way, I take into account the scientific advice and the concern about one of the products added to satsumas, which is the formulation ingredient taloamine. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that, in cooperation with the regional authorities, I am preparing the next plan for the reduction of pesticides for the period 2018-2022, including, of course, the federal part of the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u70	Minister, I still don't understand. You're not doing enough. Get the poison out of the racks today. Yesterday it was still on the shelves of Brico. Ban the poison from Infrabel, so it won't be sprayed on our train tracks and roadsides anymore. In particular, you can also follow the example of France, which has already banned arthropods for private use. There are a lot of reservations about the studies you are referring to, because there is rightly criticism of the neutrality of these studies, because producers are also involved. I already sent the petition to your mailbox; you can still sign it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u71	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I once again regret that the Prime Minister has not taken responsibility for this matter. However, a few days ago, the Plan Bureau recalled that the situation of the most disadvantaged people in our society and in our country was "special concern". It targets single-parent families, the unemployed, pensioners and also a number of workers who today, despite their precarious or part-time employment, cannot live in dignity. Today, through the indicators in the report of the Planning Office, but also by many other indicators, there is an increase in the number of over-indebted individuals and families. The number of income from social integration is increasing. The number of low-working and part-time households is increasing. More and more people are postponing health care. This is the result of this government's policy, which does not improve things. Of course, there is a plan to combat poverty, but we believe that it is a catalogue of good intentions in which no one believes. This is not enough! Should we recall the negative measures on purchasing power, index jumps, VAT on electricity, excise duty on diesel, the reduction of the income guarantee allowance for part-time workers, especially for single-parent families? This is obviously not going to help them! Not to mention the cost of specialists and medicines! That is true, in his statement, the Prime Minister said it was unacceptable that 15 per cent of the country's population should be in poverty. It is good to see this, but today we have to ask ourselves what Belgium is doing. How will it achieve its objectives and fulfil its commitments to the European Union, namely to reduce poverty in our country by 20%? You don't feel any strong measures. Madam Secretary of State, what measures do you intend to take to achieve Belgium's European poverty reduction objectives? What measures do you intend to take to reduce inequalities and help our fellow citizens in precarious situations and social exclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, I would also have liked the Prime Minister to answer this important question of poverty. The Plan Office issued for the second time a report with additional information on GDP. It contains a great deal of data on poverty. First of all, I should like to apologise to the N-VA, because it concerns figures on poverty. It is not always easy to interpret these figures, but I hope that Mrs Sleurs will show a bit more sense of reality for the report quoted than some Flemish ministers, who may have seen it less concretely. We're going to talk about numbers. This report is quite alarming. With regard to health care, he made it very clear that, between 2008 and 2015, four times as many families had applied for health care for financial reasons. Four times more, colleagues! As our country produces more and more wealth, poverty continues to increase. Collective debt settlements, an essential barometer of poverty, affected 57,000 people in 2007 and applied to 97,400 individuals in 2015. The RIS has increased from 74,100 to 116,000 – an increase of 56%. Another figure obviously hit us a lot. This is life expectancy, ladies and gentlemen, which is very different depending on whether you have a higher education degree or not. For men, the gap can be ten years. My problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the following. As a member of a left-wing party, I cannot accept that people in our country are becoming poorer as more and more wealth is being produced. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know what your colleagues are doing in these various areas. I am thinking of pensions. We know that the gap in life expectancy between those with a university degree and those with a university degree can reach ten years. This means that when this government decides to abolish the right to pre-pension – which is very dear to many workers – in the name of allegedly egalitarian considerations, this measure is truly unequal. Yes, it is, dear colleagues on the right! Why? Because of a ten-year difference in life expectancy. When Mrs De Block decides to increase the price of medicines, including antibiotics and nasal sprays, it is these people – the number of whom has been multiplied by four – who will no longer be able to pay their medical expenses and who will therefore post them a little more. As much as this government will continue to hunt the unemployed, colleagues, more people will naturally end up at the CPAS. Madam Secretary of State, there is an urgent need to take action. Which ones are you going to take? Can you tell me if you agree with the figures from the Planning Bureau? Or do you agree with Mrs Homans, who states that poverty in Belgium is falling today? Everyone wants to know what you think, Madam Secretary of State, about Minister Homans' position on poverty in Belgium today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u73	Colleagues, it is with interest that I have taken note of the examination of the 67 indicators that complement GDP by measuring the development of Belgium in the social, environmental and economic fields. This analysis, carried out by the Federal Planning Office, provides an overview of the situation between 2008 and 2015. Of course, the analysis was not limited to the poverty indicator. For example, it has also included indicators such as health, training, the environment, mobility, etc. Let's start with a positive note! The analyses show that the average quality of life in Belgium is good, that life expectancy is increasing, that the gap between men and women is decreasing, that fewer and fewer young people are leaving school prematurely and that municipalities produce less waste. However, the report, which purports to be nuanced, paints a less pink picture when it comes to analysing poverty. Colleagues, no matter how many people are affected by poverty, it will always be too many. My policy is very clear in this sense: in the fight against poverty, the results are never good enough. Any action taken by a minister of that government must be thoroughly analysed. In this debate, there is no one-size-fits-all solution. What is certain is that we are focusing on employment and job creation because we are convinced that it is the cornerstone of the response we must make to this problem of poverty. We have seen in recent years that tens of thousands of jobs have been created, bringing a principal or complementary income from work to tens of thousands of families. The unemployment rate is particularly low. In addition, we are seeing an increase in net income and purchasing power in the lowest income group. Thus, we are taking a major step forward and helping families who have so far lived an uncertain existence. This government will not turn its back on those who are fragile and fail to find their place in the standard work circuit. We will not leave to their fate those who, struck by bad fortune, have to stay temporarily or permanently on the bench. This Government is taking complementary measures to significantly strengthen the position of the most vulnerable families in terms of income. This is done in consultation with all the competent ministers but also with the social partners, as appropriate. Colleagues, understand the perplexity that some of your analyses inspire me. In recent days, I have read comments that suggest a categorical refusal to accept the coherence and interaction of measures that will strengthen the fight against poverty. If there is one area in which we can never be satisfied with sufficient results, that is the one! If there is one area in which a solid ambition must go hand in hand with a structural approach, it is that! Neither the government nor I have sought to avoid the debate on this subject. And we were right! Do we have to conclude that the game is over? Absolutely not! Nobody says it and surely not the government or myself. I am convinced that this government's policy will have a positive impact on the current level of poverty risk in this country. But it is probably the next Secretary of State who will be responsible for reporting these results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u74	Mr President, there were still some applause, weak. The answer doesn't surprise me. It is generally an answer in which one feels neither vision, nor will, nor empathy, nor dynamic. The speech "Jobs, jobs, jobs" will never reduce and even less eradicate poverty. Of course, we need jobs. We are all mobilized by the fact that employment creates added value and can bring out of poverty. But if there is nothing more than this speech, in two years or in 2020, when we take stock, or even later, we will still have the same inequalities and probably greater poverty. As you said, the income is increasing. But poverty is also increasing! That's the problem! We therefore need structural measures, a fairer tax system that contributes to those who have the widest shoulders and the most means. A coherent and proactive policy was also needed to combat poverty. Unfortunately, this is not the case with this government. I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u75	Madam Secretary of State, you impress me. This report should normally make you boil with indignation. Two weeks ago, a report was published on wealth in our country. A person like Albert Brother owns as many as 2.2 million Belgians! At the same time, a report tells us that poverty is increasing, that people cannot pay for their medical care, Madam Secretary of State! You still have to react to that! It's still time to activate these fortunes a little bit! Instead, some of your colleagues, most – I don't even see an exception – continue to charge people. That's not right! Tell her, she's here, Mrs. Maggie De Block! Tell him his measure isn't right! Mr. Bacquelaine, where did he go? He is not yet in pension, but tell him that his pension measures affect people! It's still amazing! We need to have a secretary of state who mobilizes and instead, you read a text quietly! I will come up with a concrete solution. I believe that one of the problems is the issue of allowances, Madam Secretary of State. In Belgium, there are still allowances below the poverty line, that is, we organise people's poverty! We still need to be able to increase these allowances! So, activate the fortunes so that you can give an allowance that will get people out of poverty! Stop hunting the poor and instead drive poverty away!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u76	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u77	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 February 2017, I propose to return the bill (Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Katja Gabriels and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mr Patrick Dewael) on the collection of penalty payments by the police, Nos 1610/1 to 5, to the committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 February 2017, I propose that you refer the bill (Ms.Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Katja Gabriëls and MM. Vincent Van Quickenborne and Patrick Dewael) on the collection of criminal fines by the police, Nos. 1610/1 to 5, in committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u78	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 February 2017, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Sophie De Wit, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and Carina Van Cauter and Mr Philippe Goffin) amending the Code of Economic Law and the Law of 25 December 2016 amending the legal status of detainees and the supervision of prisons and laying down various provisions on justice, Nos 2286/1 to 3. - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Karin Jiroflée) on the banning of the use of arthropods in nationally recognised products, Nos 1755/1 to 6. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 February 2017, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq, Mr. Raf Terwingen, Ms. Sophie De Wit, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and Carina Van Cauter and Mr. Philippe Goffin) amending the Code of Economic Law and the Act of 25 December 2016 amending the legal status of prisoners and the supervision of prisons and laying down various provisions in the field of justice, Nos. 2286/1 to 3. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Karin Jiroflée) on the prohibition of glyphosate in products approved in Belgium, Nos 1755/1 to 6. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Following the tabling of amendments on the 'workable and manageable' project, on which I will seek the opinion of the Council of State, I propose that you withdraw this draft from our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Wouter Raskin, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u80	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2245/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2245/3) The draft law has 32 articles. The bill has 32 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u81	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u82	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u83	Catherine Fonck
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u84	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1007/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1007/6) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Daniel Senesael, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u85	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to go up to this rostrum to highlight some elements. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues. Indeed, the text under consideration is not dated today, as it was tabled in April 2015. However, we have been able to complete the discussions in the Committee on Health and that is a good thing. I am pleased that the majority and the opposition have been able to work together to send an important signal. Indeed, the government has not yet finalized all the modalities of the nuclear emergency plan. The latter does include a component on the availability of iodine tablets to "paste" if necessary. Of course, the priority in this area is to invest in preventing any nuclear accident. It's obvious! But one cannot close one's eyes to a reality which concerns - it is true - nuclear power plants in Belgium, but potentially also nuclear power plants located elsewhere, especially in neighbouring countries. News catch up with the accident that occurred this morning in a French nuclear power plant. But let us also recall the Chernobyl accident that occurred in 1986. Is it worth recalling that the radioactive cloud has overflew Belgium and that it has not been without consequences? Indeed, the number of cases of thyroid cancer has increased significantly as many people have become infected with this disease as a result of their exposure to the radioactive cloud during childhood. This was demonstrated in a study by UCL University Clinics in Mont-Godinne. This demonstrates the importance of having these iodine tablets, which alone can prevent this type of cancer after exposure to a radioactive cloud. Let us recall that these are not recommendations based on nothing. Indeed, in addition to the study I have just mentioned, these are also the recommendations of the Health Council which have been validated and repeated by the Scientific Committee of the AFCN as well as by other international bodies. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to relay what has been said in committee by recalling the vote of the majority and the opposition that has taken place, and to insist on the government's operationalisation of the distribution of these iodine tablets. They must be available anywhere in Belgium and not just within a 20 km radius around nuclear sites. They should not only be available to sensitive and vulnerable people, such as children and pregnant women, but also to the general population. Finally, I would like to draw your attention, and the attention of the government, to the fact that telling people living beyond the 20 km perimeter around a nuclear site to take the necessary steps could lead to people who are more vulnerable, or who do not have access to information, not taking the step and being penalized directly in their health. The vote on this motion for a resolution is a clear signal that the government will be extremely attentive to it. The different ways in which iodine tablets can be accessed and distributed should affect the general population. I hope that the Minister of Health, as well as the Minister of the Interior, will be able to address this issue in this way. However, I was a little surprised by a response from the Minister of the Interior to a parliamentary question of 31 January 2017. Clearly, only vulnerable groups, preferably within the 20 km perimeter, were involved. In this case as in others, even if it is not for you politically, it is evidence-based medicine that must be the guiding thread. The scientific authorities have said that it is necessary to cover all Belgian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your vote of support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u86	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I could not fail to intervene on this subject, given the concern of environmentalists about nuclear power and the dangers to health that it represents; and given the fight led by my two group leaders, Mr Nollet and Mr Calvo, on this subject, in particular for the distribution of iodine pills throughout the country. Work on this resolution was long and sometimes difficult. Nevertheless, and that is what we must remember, we have collectively come to the adoption of a text that insists on major elements for both environmentalists and other members of Parliament. In any case, I hope that this will occur at the time of the vote. As the Supreme Council of Health reports, the entire population, within a radius of at least 100 km, must have access to an iodine pill in the event of a nuclear accident. The 20 km limit was obviously ridiculously small in the face of a nuclear accident. In addition, we have not only introduced mileage considerations in this resolution, but also integrated wind direction into analysis and need. In fact, it is the wind that carries the radioactive cloud. In some directions, however, the impact of this radioactive cloud may be significantly greater than the target 100 km radius. For this reason, the resolution contains a request for consultation with neighbouring countries which themselves have power plants but whose population is at a distance. It is of course worth recalling here the mobilization and the particular concern of the Germans to Aachen who consider themselves in the radius and in the wind of the Tihange nuclear power plant, in case there is an accident. For this reason, they regularly call for the closure of the power plants at our home, especially Tihange 1. Among the important elements, we want the government to take into account the fact that iodine tablets must be available in pharmacies. They must be distributed to families but must also be accessible in places where the most vulnerable people, i.e. children, pregnant women and breastfeeding women, are particularly likely to be found. I am thinking here of crèches, schools, workplaces, administrations, etc. So you don't have to go out to get your iodine tablet. All these provisions were considered in the resolution. Anne Dedry, Karin Jiroflée and I had tabled two amendments which were not included in the text before you. That is why we are repositioning them today. The scope of these amendments is first of all to know who will be responsible for the cost of making these iodine pills. For now, it's the community. We propose that nuclear actors bear this cost. Then we have to inform the population. So, of course, there are exercises. Of course, there will be information campaigns, but we also know that information campaigns never affect the entire population. Finally, it is the population furthest from the obligations and behaviours required that has the least access to these information campaigns. The second amendment that we have introduced includes sending information to all residents on the availability of iodine pills in pharmacies. This amendment allows for a device to bring these iodine platelets to those who would have missed this consignment again but would be in the area of radioactive radiation in the event of an accident. However, we approved this collective resolution as it included the key elements, including distribution within a 100 km radius for the population as a whole, with particular attention to the vulnerable population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u87	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u88	Request/Demande 2/1(n) • 16 years Anne Dedry cs (1007/7) Request/Demande 9(n) • 17 years Anne Dedry cs (1007/7) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u89	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u90	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u91	Robert Van de Velde
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Luk Van Biesen, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when is the last time you adopted a legislative proposal that is efficient, cost-effective and cost-effective, while at the same time increasing legal certainty? That was an eternity ago, but today you can do it again. All madness on a stick, the call of the Requisition Service for a better procedural approach to the collections has sounded for a while. Recently, together with the administration and with the cooperation of a number of people on the ground, we have been able to compile a list of about 35 reasons why, in certain cases, the recovery of taxes is made difficult. We can divide that gross mode into four categories. Firstly, reasons of a practical nature, one of which we will deal with today with the procedure of the letters. Secondly, fraud which is very difficult to succeed, for example the inability of a number of people to settle in. There is also the follow-up of certain files. An example of this is the lack of a digital register of professional bans. There are also certain barriers that are legally built up, namely the attachment abroad of certain revenues that the government also makes available. At the moment, together with my group, we have made various legislative proposals on all these different reasons and categories of difficulties relating to recovery. We have also listened to the practical procedural questions. Today there are two procedures ahead. Firstly, putting the implementation procedure in order. We ensure that the taxpayer knows clearly in advance when an enforcement will take place. Secondly, much more efficient letter management by abolishing the registered letter that we are still sending today as a reminder letter. Following colleague Van Mechelen in Flanders, we are now putting a stop to this procedure. About 250 000 reminder letters are sent annually by personal taxes. Of those letters, 200 000 are not collected. Average costs of around 1.5 million euros per year, which are almost unrecoverable, are the result. Don't be alarmed, about 500 working days are associated with grading all the mail showers that come back. It is therefore an incredibly labour-intensive and archaic fact, which does not contribute at all to the result. In Flanders, the procedure has been in force for two years. The first results are very positive. There is no difference in the recoveryability of taxes. We have also included an element of legal certainty in the legislative proposal. In the future, a clearer line will be drawn from when it can be seized. It may be seized 30 days after the letter has been sent. Those 30 days go in three days after sending the letter. There was only one criticism from the opposition, namely that we worked with the administration before this law. The separation of powers was called into question. That's bullshit, of course. As a legislative authority, we have the system of questions referred for a preliminary ruling. The legislative power must of course not be blind to what is happening on the ground either. A good participatory process to achieve good, qualitative legislation will only benefit us all. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope to be able to count on your cooperation in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u94	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u95	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1186/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1186/4) The title was amended by the Committee in its draft law amending Article 298 of the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the reminder letters for unpaid income taxes." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending Article 298 of the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to reminder letters sent in case of non-payment of taxes". The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u97	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Franky Demon, Leen Dierick, Els Van Hoof, Veerle Heeren
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u98	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1682/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1682/7) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. I assume that Mr Koen Metsu, rapporteur, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2006, the electronic identity card for children under the age of 12, the well-known kids ID, was introduced. This document is used to prove the identity of the holder and allows travel in Belgium and other EU countries. The kids ID also contains expensive certificates that can be used to create a secure online environment, but those applications are, in my view, hardly used. In addition, the card is only valid for three years, as opposed to the electronic identity card for adults. This naturally increases the cost. New technological applications may affect the appearance of the card itself and may also extend its lifetime, and we believe so. In addition, costs can also be saved. We also believe that a faster treatment of all the application procedures for the kids ID is possible. We have also put forward proposals on this subject. Since the kids ID is not mandatory, we believe that the request of the card could also be made easier and faster. It is a matter of many things that are supported by majority and opposition. Hence this resolution. If the vote is taking place today and is positive, we hope that the Minister will be able to support this resolution and take the necessary initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u100	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u102	Mr President, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou, rapporteur, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u103	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard Mr Van de Velde say that for the first time in a long time we will be voting on a draft law that is efficient, cost-effective and cost-effective and contains a great deal of legal certainty. I think I can apply the same intro for a large piece, for at least 75% - to complete what you then delete - to the present draft law. The aim is to implement a much more coherent, transparent and efficient removal policy. That is the purpose of the draft law we are discussing today. We all know that the Foreigners Act of 1980 is an illegible whole. I believe that everyone who follows this law agrees on that. There are questions about the application of the Aliens Act, who are the competent services, what rules apply exactly to what particular case, etc. This lack of readability leads to legal uncertainty. So there is a need for clarity and that is what is provided for in this draft law. In addition to legal certainty, there are some other very important changes. For us, the most important change is that legally resident criminal aliens will now also be repatriated. Procedures will be speeded up and longer entry bans may apply. We are talking here about examples that we know from the past, such as Salah Abdeslam and other Syrian fighters. It will also be possible to link an entry ban to a stay of more than 20 years. This is a fundamental break with the 2005 government which has made it impossible to withdraw the residence of persons born here or who entered Belgium before the age of 12 years. The extension of immunity to repatriation, the extension of that category of foreigners, was only registered in the law in 2005. Thanks to this bill, this government is now easier and faster to take the necessary measures against those who threaten our public order or our national security. This is fully in line with the fight against terrorism and radicalisation, which is rightly a priority of this government. The committee has already shown that some groups in this hemisphere are very sceptical about these measures. For them, I would like to stress once again that these measures are taken in compliance with the fundamental rights of the person concerned. When it comes to the danger to national security or public order, it can only be that everyone agrees that action must be taken quickly by all authorities, including the administration, in this case the Foreign Affairs Office. The procedural rules will be simplified and made more efficient to meet them. Let me give you some examples. The ministerial decision shall be replaced by the order to leave the territory, an instrument that already exists. The royal expulsion order is completely abolished. The order to leave the territory will therefore become a simpler and more flexible instrument. The King's intervention will never be necessary for an eviction. As mentioned earlier, it will be possible, for example, to grant an entry ban of 20 years or more in the event of the possible removal of foreign Syrian fighters or of serious criminals. The intervention of the Committee on Foreigners, the non-binding opinion which was a delaying factor in the decision-making process, is being abolished. This procedure had to provide a prior and, as has been said, non-binding advice when taking a removal decision. Very important, not only removals after a conviction are possible. From now on, grounds of public policy or national security will be sufficient for a removal. Of course, these must be demonstrable and weighty reasons of threat to public order or national security. Then the Secretary of State, the Department of Foreign Affairs can take a removal decision, while a foreigner must have already harmed public order in the past. Furthermore, the draft law also clearly identifies who, for example, has the power to allow the decision to refuse entry and the decision to withdraw or cancel visas. Mr Secretary of State, there is no doubt that the general principles of good administration include the right to legal certainty. This means, among other things, that citizens must be able to rely on public services - on the Aliens Office - and must and will be able to count on them to respect the rules and follow a firm policy that the citizen cannot take any other view and that is beyond doubt. Thanks to this bill, you will increase exactly the legal certainty in the law where necessary. You have the support of the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u104	Secretary of State, we are here in plenary to talk about your bill on the removal of aliens from the territory that would put our country at risk. Whenever measures have been taken to combat violent radicalism and terrorism, I would like to say here that the PS Group has supported them. But here, Mr. Franken, you're completely next to the plate. You are basing your project on the idea that, thanks to this measure, the Belgian population and society will be better protected from problematic foreigners. First of all, I would like to make a first observation. You are in charge of the Asylum and Migration, while in this country we have a Minister of the Interior and a Minister of Justice. Then your government decided to set up a commission on terrorism, and we supported that initiative. Instead of tabling this draft under the signature of Mr Jambon, in the Terro Committee, you come, you who do not have the first competence in the fight against insecurity, with a dossier. This is not ideal for the consistency of the MR/N-VA government. If you want to be consistent and credible, you have to work in a cross-cutting way. Here, some Members sit on the Committee on Justice, others sit on the Committee on the Interior. It would have been interesting for them to express their views on these issues. What I will say earlier will also be of interest to you, particularly on classified State Security documents. As I said, you are basing your project on the need to protect Belgian society. Who could be against it? We all agree. But in the way you want to achieve this goal, you are next to the plate. Basically, you're telling us that you're going to take away people who pose problems to public order, national security, and against whom we have serious clues or even evidence. You know, the only way, Mr. Franken, to neutralize problematic individuals is to arrest them, put them in prison and have them condemned. What are you doing? You are proceeding like Holland, the neighbouring country that has been criticized. These people will come here. You'll send them back somewhere else. But they will continue to pose problems for others and for us. When the imam arrived in Dison, it wasn't something pleasant. Yet you do the same thing: you practice the policy of hot potatoes, you do not neutralize those that are problematic, you simply want to keep them away. I do not think that this is an effective and meaningful counter-terrorism measure. What is also a problem for us, Mr Franken, in your project is that you want to concentrate all the powers in your hands and those of your administration, the Office for Foreigners. While the Aliens Advisory Commission has real experience in the field, you delete the prior notice it may give you. And then you want to decide, at the level of the Aliens Office, the removal of a whole series of people. We are going to ask again the questions that have been asked in the Committee on Home Affairs. Your answers have not been sufficient. On the basis of what criteria will a person be considered to be a danger to public order and national security? What is fraud that would endanger national security or public order? And what is a sign of danger? And even though there is evidence and evidence of danger, isn't our country equipped with a procedure to prosecute people? Isn't it the role of justice to arrest, jail and convict people? I find it difficult to follow the logic proposed by the government. I will stop - I will certainly be interested in the members of the Committee on Justice - with regard to the use of classified information from the State Security. I asked you in the Committee on Home Affairs. I asked on what basis the Aliens Office will be able to access and process this information. And you said, or suggested, that perhaps we should organize legal proceedings in camera. Which country are we in? Is this the way you see justice in our country? We are going to incriminate people on the basis of information from the State Security and the people in question would not have the opportunity to have access to this information? It's not serious! It's unbearable! You want to have at the level of the Aliens Office the information of the State Security, to prepare administrative files on persons who will never know why they would be the subject of an administrative decision to remove them from the territory. What a strange conception of justice! It's really unbearable! My group agrees with the opinion of the Ligue des droits de l'Homme and ICRÉ. Behind all this, instead of taking measures to combat terrorism, to have concrete actions to combat violent radicalism, what is being done? We seem to be fighting, but in reality we suggest that foreigners are causing problems in our country. It is the arbitrariness that settles in our society. We can't accept it. Your project creates amalgam among foreigners and violates human rights. For all these reasons, the PS group will vote against both bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u105	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, our country has now been living for two years under threat and terrorist acts. We are in the top 3 countries that have the most nationals present in the fighting in Syria. And we find that it is not possible to easily expel someone like Salah Abdeslam. If our legislation today does not allow for an easy expulsion, it must be adapted to allow it. That's what you do!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u106	Mr. Pivin, Mr. Hellings would like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u107	Mr. Pivin, you say that we are not even able to dismiss Salah Abdeslam. I would like to remind you that, if he is indeed French and resides in Molenbeek, Salah Abdeslam committed his attack in Paris. The fact that he was sent back to France would not have reduced his danger to carry out these attacks in France. So I think your argument doesn't hold.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u108	Of which act! I illustrate the point by explaining that there is now the possibility of expelling someone like Salah Abdeslam. I'm not talking exactly about him. This comparison is used to explain a simplification of procedures. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u109	Mr Kir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u110	Mr Pivin, what a strange idea you have of the fight against terrorism! You think by sending someone back, you're gonna neutralize him? I would like your opinion, as well as that of the government and the majority. When someone poses a problem, you send him back and it's over: the problem is solved! Say, friends, don't you think other measures should be taken? For example, giving the means of action to the justice system, encouraging it to act. You did the opposite at the beginning of the legislature, since you took it away from him. Today, by means of these provisions, which are so much artifice, you give the public the feeling that you are protecting it. Mr. Mayor of Koekelberg, I know you're very attached to security. Very sincerely, do you really think that this measure will eradicate terrorism? We send people back, and the problems are solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u111	Anyway, I think...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u112	Mr Pivin, the government is also asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u113	Mr President, Mr Kir, the measures taken today are measures to combat terrorism. You say repatriation is not a solution. I don't understand anything! Indeed, I have received more than ten letters from the mayor PS of Dison and parliamentarians. The Prime Minister was questioned here in plenary a year ago by members of your group to find out when Dison's imam would be expelled. The mayor PS of Dison, Mr. Ylieff, sends me a communication every two or three weeks. According to him, Mr. Franken does nothing! Dison's imam stays here. Dison's citizens are sick of it. He must be repatriated. That is the truth! [[Applause]] You have two faces! I can't agree with you. What is being done to combat terrorism? This bill enables action to be taken against Syrian fighters who are currently in Syria. It should be noted that there are about 400 Syrian fighters from Belgium to Syria to fight alongside Daesh. When I was a member of the opposition, I asked Mrs Milquet several times to tell me how many of these fighters did not have Belgian nationality but had a permanent or long-term residence permit. After questioning her about ten times, she replied to me in the Committee of the Interior that about 40 Syrian fighters, who had left Belgium to join Syria, did not have Belgian nationality but a residence permit. At the time, I asked what the government intended to do to punish them? Indeed, it was possible to withdraw residence permits from those who had come to Belgium after 12 years. Mr Kir, unlike the previous government that has done nothing, I have, to date, already had 17 residence cards withdrawn. You're asking me what about the other 23 people. I can't take away their residence card. Mr. Bonte here is very familiar with the file. I cannot because these people came before the age of twelve in Belgium or were born in Belgium. With this bill, they will be able to withdraw their residence permits and will no longer be able to return to Europe. That is to combat terrorism, concretely and not virtually! But your group voted against, Mr Kir!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u114	Mr Franken, I am listening to you very calmly. There's no point in taking you the way you do. You're not fixing the problem. You know that very well. Maybe that's why you're angry. If anyone is a danger to our country, we prove it, we have him arrested, we have him imprisoned and we have him condemned. That is justice in a country. But what are you doing? You're sending the problem back, but he's coming back! I'm a mayor. When I talk to the experts in the fight against terrorism, what do they tell us, Mr. Pivin? When you lose track of someone, it's the worst thing for our services. The worst thing is to lose someone's trail! Don't think that by removing someone, you've solved the problem of terrorism. That is the great difference between you and us. We believe that in a rule of law, when we have established the facts, when we have evidence, we act. But here, that's not what you do. You come with this law and then you do a little arbitrariness, you throw the reproach a little on everyone. This is unacceptable! You don't solve the problems of the turnovers. You give a semblance of solving the problem and the problems will come back. I keep what I said. Justice must be empowered so that it can act against all those who are a danger in our country. For the rest, I do not think it is up to the Foreign Office to be the administration that receives classified documents from the State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u115	Mr Kir, should justice be given the opportunity to impose a sentence? Of course! That's right! This is the priority for justice. But there are two things. First, Syrian fighters are currently in Syria. They're not here. They're in Syria. We have the opportunity to withdraw residence cards, which I have already done 17 times. When we do this, they can't come back. In the other 23 cases, we cannot do this because they were born in Belgium or arrived before the age of 12. We want to remove the cards to prevent them from coming back. Justice is something else. Secondly, in cases of terrorists sentenced to serious punishment in Belgium, who have served their sentences and who are in legal residence in Belgium, we say, our group and our government say very clearly that it is necessary to withdraw the residence permit and to expel them. This is possible for people who arrived in Belgium after the age of 12, but not for a younger arrival. For us, this should always be possible. But that must be proportional. The EAC will make decisions in these cases. Justice, yes. But what do we do after they have served their sentence? This is always the subject of discussions between you and us. For you, it's a double penalty. That is why this was banned in 2005. For you, it's a double penalty. For me, for our government, it's not a double penalty. Expulsion, repatriation is an administrative measure. This is necessary to combat terrorism and serious crime. I have cited many cases. In my general answer, I will mention many others, which are very striking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u116	Mr Franken, what you are saying here has nothing to do with the text you have tabled. This has nothing to do with it. Do you realize what you just said here? This will be included in the proceedings. You say, "If anyone has been convicted." I'm saying the same thing. But your text doesn't say that! Excuse me, but it's called a lie. You're lying. You're lying. You're telling us, "I'm only going to make this removal decision if there's a conviction." But that's not the text! We have been asking you for weeks what are the "serious clues" that someone poses a problem for national security. Answer me! What are the serious clues?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u117	You say I'm lying. For my part, I've always been told to be careful before accusing someone of lying in a parliament. Accusing someone of a liar... I've always learned to pay attention to that in a political debate. I will therefore leave those words entirely on your behalf. In committee, I have replied to this on several occasions. I have responded several times in committee. De facto, they will be people who have served a sentence in a Belgian prison, you know that very well. I have given several examples. In committee, I have given many different examples of people who are covered by the proposed bill. About 50 serious criminals and 20 terrorist-related, terrorist or Syrian fighters are referred to. For me, it's the same thing. The EAC will decide. At present, this is already possible for anyone over the age of twelve. On the other hand, the possibility already existed before 2005. These are concrete cases of serious criminals for whom the residence permit can be withdrawn. That's what we're proposing here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u118	Mr. Kir, last speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u119	No! Mr. President, we have to stop. We are at the heart of the debate. Mr. Franken can't run away. He's here, he's stuck! And he's talking nonsense! Mr. President, you heard him! These are not answers! He says they're serious criminals. So let's note it in the law, let's be clear! I'm asking him to tell me what a serious clue is. He tells me it's a conviction. Basta cosi! Let's stop the palabre! That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u120	Let's stay calm and listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u121	It is not a new discussion, because it is a debate that is taking place in every European country. In many European countries, what we are now introducing has been possible for years. The Court of Justice has interpreted the concepts of public order and national security when there is an acute and serious threat to public order and national security in the areas of migration and asylum. So these are absolutely not blank concepts that we can use as we see fit. Thus, according to the case-law of the European Court of Justice, the concept of public order presupposes, in any event, that there is a real, current and sufficiently serious threat affecting a fundamental interest of society, in order to justify a deviation from a principle, in addition to the disturbance of the social order which occurs in the event of any breach of law. That's a quote. It is therefore a matter of very clear conditions which the Council of Foreign Ministers will review if a card is effectively withdrawn. The concept of national security has also had to be interpreted several times by the Court of Justice in legal proceedings. We're not on an island here. What we are discussing now is an evolution that has been going on for years in many European countries and there is a lot of justice about it. You cannot insinuate that this is a blank concept, because that is absolutely not right. National security is concerned with internal security and external security and includes, in particular, the deterioration of the functioning of institutions and essential public services, as well as the survival of the population, the risk of a serious disturbance of external relations or of the peaceful coexistence of peoples, as well as the deterioration of military interests. That too is a quote. There is therefore a case-law which interprets the concepts used in the present draft law. These concepts were already in the law before 2005 and are now being adapted. De facto, the case law will deal with very difficult facts, otherwise the RVV will suspend and destroy any decision to withdraw a residence card stante pede. I therefore believe that this is very balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u122	Mr. Secretary of State, you have cited a case law. You read it so quickly that it was very complicated for us to understand you. Are you going back to what you said in committee when I asked you the following question? Are convictions for forgery and forgery, false papers, shoplifting, marriage of convenience or a traffic offence such as to justify expulsion on grounds of public order? That's the question I asked you. It can be found on page 34 of the transcript. And you said, "The examples of offences that Mr. Hellings cited can justify expulsion, everything will depend on the context." That's the difference between you and us. Of course, you rely on the cases, specified by Mr. Pivin, of Abdeslam and Dison's imam to justify such strong and indiscriminate measures. And when I ask you about the concrete cases which are crimes, but which are not of the same nature or magnitude as a terrorist act or the poisoning of young people's minds, it is different. And these are your words! It's not mine, it's not Mr. Kir's interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u123	That is indeed a very good example, Mr Hellings. That's the difference between you and us, that's absolutely right. If we have been proven to have a marriage of convenience and have been convicted of it, it will be returned. That's true. That's what we do. It happens every month. It's very clear. That's what happens when a marriage of convenience is established. That's nothing new. I do not even need this draft law for that. If that is effectively established and pronounced by a Belgian court, the stay will be revoked anyway. Now it's about a traffic ticket. No, a traffic fine for a long-term resident will not lead to the loss of the right of residence. Driving too fast will not lead to the loss of residence for a long-term resident, except if someone has to go to jail for it, because it has already happened 20 or 30 times. Of course, there are people who already have hundreds of unpaid fines. In very special cases this will be possible, but for an ordinary traffic ticket, forget it, a long-term resident will of course never be returned. There will always be a balance. It explicitly contains the proportionality test, with many conditions and guarantees for the nationals who are the subject of the investigation. That's totally fine. That is all right with European justice. Yet you are making such a point of it now. The draft was first approved by the government in June. The text would be destroyed by the Council of State, it was thought, but the Council of State made no fundamental comment. No comment at all. The text is fully in line with Belgian law, European law, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Belgian Constitution. You're making a fuss here, you're causing commotion, about things you necessarily want to misinterpret. That's not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u124	What else do I have to say, Mr. President? On the other hand, from here, I understand your loneliness better. It is not tolerable to have allowed Dison's imam to remain on Belgian territory for so long, without being able to react. You were right to point out that many steps have been taken. Whether it is this imam or people like Abdeslam or fighters in Syria, these examples illustrate the need to adapt legislation. You say "fit," you don't say "replace." I fully agree with the remarks that we have courts and sentencing opportunities. A tool is added to the existing tools. One tool is not replaced by another, one is added to the problem of combating terrorism. I'm not saying anything more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u125	Let's not mix the genres by taking examples. The Secretary of State referred to Dison's imam about which I questioned him. Indeed, the mayor of Dison was impatient, after multiple and repeated announcement effects that had taken place for many months. We were going to see what we were going to see! In the field, we couldn't see anything. The only shade, Mr. Pivin, is that, despite appearances, Dison's imam was of Dutch nationality. This explained the difficulties encountered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u126	Regardless of the origin of the difficulties, if we now have solutions to solve them, we must take advantage of them and not exacerbate the problems. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, our group supports this project, considering, as you say, that it is a balanced response to a problem of access to and residence on Belgian territory. For us, this text clarifies and streamlines. It removes the rightful suspensive effect of appeals against State decisions taken for public policy, national security or for serious and compelling reasons, and this is a step forward. This has been stressed many times in the course of the discussions: all this is done with respect for the status of the foreign national and with respect for our legislation. The Council of State has confirmed this. Compliance with European rules is also ensured. It is a text that also provides, you will never say enough, that cases will be analysed on a case-by-case basis and not in a blind or general way. It is also a guarantee of democratic functioning that each situation is examined on a case-by-case basis. It is a project that strengthens the capacity of the State authority to act, while guaranteeing the fundamental freedoms of everyone. If the prior opinion of the Consultative Commission on Foreigners is no longer required, Mr Kir recalled, the balance will still be maintained by the right to be heard, by guaranteeing the principle of proportionality, by the necessary motivation and by strict compliance with legislation, including European legislation. You have also planned a clarification of the role...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u127	Mr Pivin, you say that the strict balance will be respected by the transmission of a whole series of documents, etc. Will people have access to classified documents from the State Security Service in order to defend themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u128	I think the Secretary of State is better able to answer this question than I am. A classification requires an authorization, you know that as I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u129	People will therefore not be on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u130	I believe that the State will always be committed to maintaining the balance of rights of defence, rights and duties of everyone. But if documents are classified and you are not entitled to consult or use them, I do not see any reason why they should be communicated to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u131	As far as classified documents are concerned, we have already discussed them several times in committee, and I have been very clear. It is important that the Foreign Office can use intelligence documents that give indications of terrorism, for example. However, it is of course just as important that the lawyer of the person concerned, of the accused, should also have access to it, as much as the Foreign Affairs Office. This means that a whole section of these documents will be declassified. At the moment, there is actually no procedure in Belgium that regulates this in a correct, proper way. There is no such procedure, and that is not within my competence either. There is therefore no procedure to share such documents in court, with the judge and the two lawyers involved, for example. What has already happened, for example, in the file on Dison's imam? If there are reports from the intelligence service, they must be public, declassified. If not, they can't be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u132	Mr. Franken answered a question. I thank Eric Massin for coming back to this point. With regard to the principle of equality before the law, you explain to us that documents will be declassified. You were asked earlier why you were not seeking the opinion of the R Committee and why this matter was not being dealt with in the Terrorism Committee. Don't you see you're rushing? This case isn't ripe. You have no guarantee of fair treatment of the file relating to the person who will be the subject of an administrative decision. You say it yourself, "We should." There is no question of "duty"; there is a need for facts. That is why we have spoken vigorously today. This bill poses an arbitrariness problem. Mr. Franken, take it off! Legal certainty must be taken into account...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u133	This is the solution advocated by the PS to improve safety: remove the project!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u134	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u135	Beautiful!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u136	What do you prefer? Coherent legislation...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u137	I'd rather we improve security...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u138	Wait 30 seconds! A legislation that is consistent, does not suffer from discussion or potential annulment before the Constitutional Court or such a weak legislation that it will introduce a violation of the principle of equality of citizens before the law and that, tomorrow, it may be overturned? Is that what you prefer? If that's your choice, excuse me, but public opinion will make you wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u139	I do not have the same reading as you, and I do not consider this legislation to be inconclusive in any way. Your initial assumption is not mine. In any case, I note from your interventions that evicting someone who threatens our security is not a solution, but that removing the project would be one. So, let's expel the project rather than the problem. That's very good!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u140	We know each other pretty well. You're not used to talking by interposed slogan. It lacks a bit of nuance. We never said that. We simply indicated that, if there is evidence...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u141	You speak of nuance, but when you call the Secretary of State a liar, I wonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u142	Come on, come on! If you take it like that! I see you're Mr. Franken's deputy. We will not forget to remind him. We must stop using these caricatures, Mr. Pivin. I denounce such remarks. What I said earlier is that the file is a problem. The questions I asked Mr Franken are still waiting for answers. I will take the floor later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u143	Mr President, I shall conclude because I look forward to the resuming of honourable speakers to further criticise what is constructive in the steps taken by this government. I will conclude by noting a substantial improvement: the reduction in the number of orders to leave the territory. But I said it too - and here we will agree, Mr Kir - even if there is only one, we must execute it. Both the effectiveness of the measure and the credibility of our institutions are at stake. In any case, we applaud the administrative simplification of this somewhat absurd number of orders to leave the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is a text that ultimately targets a small number of people, at the present time - which is to be welcomed because we are talking about some seventeen people, including some 20 terrorists abroad - it nevertheless strengthens the arsenal of protection for our fellow citizens, our national security and our values. That is why the MR will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u144	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a quote. By the way, it is a great pity that there is no one here from Open Vld. The quote is: "What I want is to live in a society in which every human being is free, in so far as he or she does not harm others, where one can fully enjoy the rights and freedoms provided by the law, where one is committed as a citizen to our society, where one helps fellow people in need, where one does not discriminate or treat anyone disrespectfully. In such a society, in such a country I want to live. Didn't you?" For the sake of clarity, it is a rhetorical question from Mrs Rutten, President of the Open Vld, in an opinion piece in Knack. My answer to that question is, for the record, yes. I would have liked to ask the Open Vld Group the answer, but there is hardly anyone present except you, ma'am. So I'm guessing you'll answer yes, too? Looks like they didn't listen. I shall return to the next question, which is not a rhetorical question. Is everyone born and raised in Belgium fully part of our society, with all the duties and, of course, rights associated with it? Today there are two draft laws for discussion, which allow the Secretary of State responsible for Migration and his administration to expel persons who have lived legally throughout their lives in Belgium on the basis of indications that the alien is a threat to public order or national security. For the record, a conviction for criminal offences is no longer necessary. The presumption is sufficient for the administration. This actually means that the existing legislation is not sufficient to act and that new laws are needed for the Secretary of State and his administration, the DVZ, to give them sufficient freedom to act and act if people are not acting normally. The guarantees that citizens of our country currently enjoy prevent the competent authorities from acting efficiently if someone in our country is not acting normally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u145	Mrs De Coninck, Secretary of State Francken wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u146	Mrs De Coninck, if you are quoting so to speak, it is important that you quote correctly. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, For someone who was born and raised here, because there you are talking about someone who is longer than 10 years in Belgium, I hope, a long-term resident resident, there must be serious reasons of public order or national security that are at risk, and not of indications of debt. You have to quote. There is an increased protection against expulsion, so on the basis of mere suspicions or indications one can never withdraw the stay. What you're saying is obviously wrong. It's not just about clues. Only a very serious criminal trail will justify that. The proportionality test was included in the draft law. Let me give you some concrete examples that I did not make up. This is a Moroccan man who entered Belgium before the age of 12. He has two convictions for a total of seven years in prison, including for theft by force or threats by two or more persons at night with weapons and member of a terrorist association with the intention of committing terrorist attacks. That's a concrete case. We believe that his stay can be withdrawn. Where is your border if someone wants to join the club?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u147	I'll answer, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u148	You're giving a quote there. The quote is about who we want as a member of our community. That's what it's about. That's the essence. Let me give you another example. It concerns a Moroccan man, born in Belgium, with two convictions for a total of six years and four months in prison for, among other things, beatings and injuries, aggression and participation in the activities of a terrorist group. This includes, for example, a Thai man, who entered Belgium at the age of six, with four convictions for a total of seven years and three months in prison for, among other things, rape of adults, rape with physical torture and hostageage, drug offences, theft with violence and threats. An Angolan man who had entered Belgium at the age of 10 received three convictions, for a total of six years and six months, for various thefts with violence and threats. A Congolese man who had entered Belgium at the age of 11 received 17 convictions together for 31 years imprisonment for rapes of vulnerable persons with weapons, with aggravating circumstances, using one or more persons, and for various thefts with violence threats, extortion and drug offences. The residence of those persons cannot currently be withdrawn. You made that impossible! You say: "They must be with us, who are members of our club." I don't know. I certainly have a different opinion on this. If you get 31 years in prison, you don't want to be a member of our club at all. I can give 70 examples. I'd like to list them all. That's not a problem. These are people who were either born here or entered Belgium before the age of 12. Now there's an impossibility clause in the law. It was registered by you in 2005. We absolutely want it out again. That's the essence of the story.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u149	No. Mr Secretary of State, with all your permission, you will answer next to the matter. It is stated in the draft law: reasons for disturbance of public policy. In committee meetings, no one questioned that the residence permit could be taken away if there were convictions. No one questioned that, but you're trying to sell it that way. That's next to the issue. Someone from this country is banned or severely punished. That person is anyone who is non-Belg. That person becomes a purely administrative decision that does not involve a court, no question of guilt, let alone a conviction. One thus gets a situation in which DVZ in certain cases is police and judge, people can cross the border and is also a committee of appeal, all in one person. That's an unhealthy situation. I would like to warn you of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u150	Mrs. De Coninck, you say the DVZ is a judge. The DVZ is not a judge. The RVV is the court that deals with this. They always have the opportunity to appeal. It's gonna be the RVV who's gonna talk about that. The DVZ isn't a judge at all. What you're saying is just not true. You say this is next to the issue. No, that's what it's about. The essence of the story is that we want to go back to the situation before 2005. In almost all cases, that will be the case. There are 70 files of very heavy boys who have been convicted and they will all go out of the country. That's the difference. The difference is they can stay with you and they can't stay with us. That law was introduced by you in 2005.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u151	So, Mr Francken, you say that a conviction is not necessary. So there are other situations possible without conviction. That you want to expel people who have been severely convicted, we can largely go along with that, but the instrument you are developing is far too broad and too risky. The DVZ gets almost absolute power to evict people from the country, people who are non-Belg. You're talking about efficiency here. Someone's being evicted from the country after a trial without a conviction. In that country, you must say that you suspect that he is interfering with public order but that there is no conviction. How will that receiving country respond to that? What can they do with that? That doesn't make any sense, does it? You're not answering that. We have asked many questions, but you keep saying that we must trust you. You say you'll use that very well. And if a mistake is made, you say that those who are expelled should appeal, since the appeal that they can still lodge is not suspensive. Secondly, they must appeal to the DVZ which actually took the original decision. Thirdly, a committee exists today, but you abolish it, consisting of a number of people from a security perspective, a number of NGOs from a human perspective and representatives of the DVZ. It is decided today, in balance, checks and balances, whether those involved should leave the country. Who's being invited? Those concerned are invited and, if necessary, their lawyers if they so wish. That's where everything gets cleared out. What is the appeal procedure? From a piece of paper that will be sent to the DVZ. De facto they will have to send it from abroad because they will have already been evicted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u152	Mrs De Coninck, you always come back to the point that they may not have to be convicted before being expelled. I would like to point out, however, that this is already possible under the current legislation. I didn't make the current legislation, you made it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u153	Yes, that's your last reproach always. It's always us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u154	It's your law. Dison's imam was never convicted by a Belgian court but was still expelled. He was deported by the current legal arsenal, which is your legislation. If your biggest problem exists...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u155	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u156	No. It concerns persons who arrived in Belgium before the age of 12 or were born in Belgium. Of course, you have to choose what you want. You say that the essence is not the age of 12 but the fact that the expulsion can be without conviction. Well, you should know what you're focusing your criticism on. I say that the essence is that expulsion is possible for people born in Belgium or who have arrived here before the age of 12 years. But you do not think that this is the essence, because you are in fact partly in agreement with it, especially when it comes to severely convicted persons. That is how I understood your position. Then you say that your point is that they must always be convicted. Well, I'm saying there's no need for a conviction right now. The best example is the Imam of Dison, Mr El Amaouch. Several political groups, including the opposition, questioned the Prime Minister about this ten months ago. I do not know if you had also asked a question to know when the imam would finally be deported. That man wasn't convicted. Then please be consistent in your criticism. Secondly, as regards the legal procedure, you say that those concerned can only appeal if they are already abroad. That too is not correct, because against any removal measure there is the possibility of submitting a UDN, which is an appeal procedure in extreme urgency. That is an appeal to the Council for Alien Contests. That will be handled with full jurisdiction. Everyone has the right to submit a UDN. Again, it is not right that those involved can only appeal if they are already abroad. That's not right. If you're critical, be consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u157	You're bluffing. Your second draft states that a very limited written dispute can be raised. C'est tout. And the committee, which could possibly be critical of whether or not to decide on expulsion, you have suppressed it. I told you, you're actually a hypocrite. After all, the problems you cannot solve here are crossing the border. However, they may be back within a short time, so your problem is basically not solved. Mr Secretary of State, our main criticism is indeed that people will be expelled without condemnation. You're setting the example of Dison's imam. Well, if he is deported, then there must be a very good reason for that and then you must be able to provoke a decision on that through the Justice Department. That's what you need to agree with your colleague, the Minister of Justice. What are fundamental solutions? That is to screen individuals, see to what extent they commit or plan crimes, do tracking, guide, provide the services that are responsible for doing so with sufficient resources and take appropriate measures. Finally, there has been a Vermeersch committee twice. One of the recommendations of the second Vermeersch Committee was that an evaluation and follow-up committee on repatriation should be set up. We have already asked this several times for different decisions, including in the current discussion on the audit of the Department of Repatriations at the DVD. You can see things are getting out of hand there. They all work together. It's a whole macho world. It would be a good thing if the committee that makes repatriations made regular assessments and made recommendations. However, you refuse to do so. You always say they're all smart people there; you're smart, the administration is smart, you know it all better, you'll change it, and besides, you shouldn't really have prankers. Mr Secretary of State, we do indeed have a very serious problem with the fact that, in the long term, people who have not been convicted can be removed from the country. For the record, I'm not saying you have that intention, but laws are made for long periods and can also be interpreted and abused. If you think it is only about serious cases, then I think you should also agree that it is only about people who have been convicted. And for the rest, stop windowdressing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u158	Mr President, I will not repeat the debate which has already taken place in committee and which has also been very interesting. Our two main remarks relate to the Pandora's box that this text opens. As has already been said, too broad an interpretation of the definition of breach of public order may lead to the removal of persons who have not been convicted. Mr Secretary of State, we must go to the end of the reasoning. If you really want to send back the criminals, wait until they are recognized as such by the justice that is the only jurisdiction in this country to be able to determine who is a criminal. Go to the end of this reasoning! Let's take an example. Mehdi Nemmouche who committed the attack at the Jewish Museum in Brussels is French. He's going to be tried in Belgium. After his conviction, he will be returned to France. No one thinks it's a problem. Let us now take another example! There are organized gangs of criminals from Eastern Europe who come to our home for theft in our villages, in our cities. These people are committing crimes. They're being arrested by our police. They are sentenced and dismissed. That's normal. You, you open Pandora's box by saying that persons who are not convicted by the courts may, according to the judge's interpretation, be returned to a country as interpreted by the Aliens Office. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u159	It may be that I misunderstand both Mrs De Coninck and Mr Hellings, but they think that Dison's preacher of hatred has been sent away wrongly? I'd like to hear that clarification. You think so, don't you? I'd just like to hear that confirmed. You think Dison's hate preacher was unjustly sent away? That's the correct interpretation of what you're saying here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u160	Mr De Roover, I come to the second part of my reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u161	Let's stay on this point! Mr Bonte has also asked to speak, and if that is a response to Mr De Roover's speech, he must of course be given the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u162	If you wish, give the floor to Mrs De Coninck, but if I continue my reasoning, it will be an answer to Mr De Coninck's question. From Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u163	Go on, then! But let's be clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u164	I'm answering Mr. From Roover. No, of course not. We hope that Dison's Imam and all hate preachers in this country will be subject to scrutiny by our intelligence services and, if necessary, that under the existing Penal Code they may be convicted by the courts, including Dison's Imam. In fact, Mr De Roover, Mr Franken, during the committee, said to me: "You asked, Mr Hellings, for the return of Dison's imam to the Netherlands". That's totally wrong. On 15 July 2015, we had a debate with the Minister of Justice about the deprivation of nationality. I quote from Mr Geens, in the record of this debate, on the same subject – the preachers of hatred: "In 2013, under the Di Rupo government, we greatly expanded the scope of terrorist incriminations. For example, incitement to hatred. It is clear that the evicted imam that Mr.Franken was talking about – this is Dison's imam – "could probably have been punished under this 2013 criminalization." So that means, Mr. De Roover, that you can say anything you want about us being laxists. That is not true, because my answer to Mr Geens, on 15 July, in this Chamber, was: "Mr. Minister, in my opinion, it would be less dangerous if this imam were arrested and interrogated by our police services than in the Netherlands – that is, a few kilometres from Verviers, where he is today. And he can continue, from where he is, preaching hatred and embezzling young people." I ended up saying, "Stop him!" And I haven't changed my mind!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u165	Mr President, Mr Hellings believes that we have a lax policy of persecution here. That is, of course, an interesting discussion. Mr Hellings, it remains a fact, however, apart from the further handling that you would like to see if the person concerned has not been convicted. So this is a non-convicted hate preacher from Dison. According to what I have understood from your words, that person, in your conviction and interpretation, should not be deported. That's what I'm interested in finding out. I would also have liked to have heard Mrs De Coninck's answer in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u166	Mr President, I did not intend to ask for the floor because I did not have the opportunity to follow the debate in committee either. However, I would like to appeal to Parliament not to discuss personal and individual cases in our debates. I don't think that's a good thing because one has more file knowledge than the other. That's just a call. We must also see the relativity of things throughout the debate on expulsion policy. Mr Secretary of State, you mention some profiles of criminals. I would urge that the federal government, perhaps in consultation with the committee of inquiry, the chairman of the committee of inquiry is not present at the moment, should make an analysis of the history of all the people who have our security services in view and who are classified as foreign terrorist fighters. I would like to see the government and the security services analyse the individual history of those hundreds of people on the OCAD list. Once that has been done, we will all see the relativity of what is being discussed here today. I do not want to comment on the usefulness or lack of such a discussion, but the discussion is extremely relative. After all, you will see that a suit of those people is socialized in crime, from childhood, from the age of 11, 12 or 13 years. Mr Secretary of State, you have also given examples of some people who have been in crime since a very young age. In certain environments, with regard to certain crime phenomena, there is little or no response from the social services of Justice or other services. I live in Vilvoorde and I have to work in the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde legal definition. As a result, a pack of young people who socialize in crime and at some point radicalize also deliberately chooses, even though they are perfectly Dutch speaking, for a French-speaking language role, well aware that this causes a great deal of delay, that it results in a much more lax case law and that the risk of dismissal almost triples. That analysis was recently made by the Attorney General of Halle-Vilvoorde. Moreover, once those people have been convicted, unfortunately we have a number of cases, which you will also know when you analyse the foreign terrorist fighters who have left, been involved in the crimes and have returned, it can be noted that a number of key figures who have left on their own, are fleeing the execution court, which is effectively holding them. So they are really fleeing from the execution of their conviction. One final point I would like to add to the debate is the following. You will also be able to see this, and we have all been able to feel this sad and painful enough. Let us not judge that we are somewhat extra protected. Those who want to come back will come back soon. We have a small, open country. We must be vigilant, also for what other Members have mentioned, namely that we see them coming back. I would like to add the following. I will not mention names, but no longer than the day before yesterday there was a returner who had not been seen, but who did show up locally. I would just like to point out that the debate makes sense, but that we must also see the relativity of things and also focus on the very great challenge that lies in the question of how in the name of God it is that the aid to children who grow up in crime is not provided, especially in immigrant environments. Let us also have the debate, which will probably have to be done in the Flemish Parliament, on youth sanctions law, which, in my view, is far too lax in relation to certain juvenile crime phenomena. There is much more to be gained from this than in the largely symbolic debate that is taking place today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u167	Mr President, Mr Bonte, it is because of this relativity of things that the government is taking more measures than just the present measure. Otherwise, that measure would be sufficient. So you are absolutely right that other measures need to be taken and have already been taken. You call at the beginning not to focus on one specific case. However, I did not put my question because of that specific case, but rather because I wanted to know the proper capacity of the statements made by the opposition. That's what I'm trying to do. Mr President, Mrs De Coninck clearly wants to answer that question. I'd like to wait for her answer before I continue my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u168	Mr President, Mr De Roover, for the sake of clarity, I am not the type of person who wants to have hysterical opposition and is always against everything, not even in the Committee on Migration. Following Mr Bonte's speech, we have proposed that a number of hearings on implementation be held with a number of people who know something about this issue. We have asked for the link to be established with the work of the Committee of Inquiry and the recommendations it will make, but they did not want to do so. That is why this text is not enough if we really want to do a thorough job; it is nothing more than windowdressing. To answer your specific question, Mr De Roover, I do not know the file on the imam in question, nor am I a lawyer. However, I have started by saying that there are a number of rights and obligations here and laws, which must be respected. If we do not respect certain laws, we must condemn them. If one is convicted, one can be expelled. In my view, one administration should not be allowed to judge that. That's why we have the Justice Department. We put a lot of money in there. If that does not work properly, then we must do something about it and not give it a right to an administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u169	Mrs De Coninck, thank you for your very calm and not hysterical statements. By the way, that suits you. The fact that you said it calmly also indicates that you are not emotionally driven, but that you mean what you say. After all, what you are saying is that you regret, in your opinion and interpretation, that Dison's hate image is still very interesting for reporting purposes. [[Tumult]] Mrs De Coninck, that is, of course, the only possible interpretation of what you said a few seconds ago. I will repeat it again, and perhaps you can repeat your very calm speech even more calmly and, above all, clarify it in that regard. You know that Dison's hate preacher wasn't convicted. Fortunately, he did not stay in our country for his 12 years, in which case he could not have been expelled under the current legislation. Because he entered our territory after 12 years, what happened was possible. However, for the sake of clarity, Mrs De Coninck, he was not convicted. In your speech just now, you said that there must be a conviction first. You're just saying that Dison's hate preacher shouldn't have been deported. I think that is a clear position. It's not ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u170	To bounce back on what you have just said, Mr De Roover, about Dison's imam, the question was asked by Mr Franken: "What would you do in my place if you were Secretary of State in charge of Migration and you were faced with a man who, notoriously, poisons the minds of dozens of young people in the Verviers region?" I answered him this. There are, as I explained to you, enough incriminations, in the law passed in 2013 on terrorism, incitement to hatred so that the Public Prosecutor's Office can investigate and, possibly later, so that justice can convict this person for incitement to hatred. The finding is that the Public Prosecutor's Office does not do so. So, instead of Mr. Franken, I would put pressure on the Minister of Justice, since this ignoble character seems to pose a real national security problem. Let the government assume its responsibilities and enforce its duty of injunction to the Public Prosecutor's Office! That's how we can do it! If this person is really dangerous, she will be much less dangerous imprisoned, then following a deradicalization route that will be inventing, colleagues, rather than fifteen kilometers from where, at facebook time, twitter, WhatsApp and Telegram, he can still poison these young people, Mr De Roover. The same reasoning, Mr. Franken, is valid in relation to the returns you mentioned. You mentioned 40 people, of whom 17 were removed from their residence permits. They are therefore no longer allowed to enter the national territory. For the other 23 people, you are unable, if I understand correctly, to withdraw their right of residence. It is obvious that these 40 people are in fact foreign nationals and have links, including criminal ties, in Belgium. These people are notoriously dangerous. They learned how to handle weapons. They have been and continue to be associated with a terrorist group in Syria or Iraq. Is it not, from a security point of view, since that is what it is all about, more useful to have them in prison with us at the beginning to check what their connections, the people they contact? Indeed, this is how the Sûreté worked in the Verviers case. It was a long run of several months that eventually prevented the disaster. In Verviers - I'm not talking about the imam, I'm talking about the Verviers case - where the police, thanks to the intelligence of the Sûreté and the surveillance carried out by the latter, were able to dismantle a terrorist network that could not, therefore, carry out its attack in the wake. Is it not more useful - from a security point of view, from the point of view of intelligence, of the police - to let these people come back and condemn them rather than prevent them from returning? Are these people not more useful under the radar of our intelligence services? This is a legitimate question. Of course, they're dangerous. But they must be under the radar of the State Security and the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u171	Of course it would have been better. That's obvious. But it's not. I'm Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Article 1 of the Foreigners Act of 1980 defines a foreigner as someone who does not have Belgian nationality. I am authorized to enter and stay on Belgian territory. That's my jurisdiction. I'm not a judge. I'm not responsible for justice. In that sense, it would have been better if a judge had condemned Dison's imam for preaching hatred. Absolutely. But it's not like that, Mrs. De Coninck. There's reality and there's what you might like in life. It's not always the same. Of course a conviction would have been better, but it didn't happen. I thought we should try to get the expulsion organized. By the way, I would like to make the following point. It is said here that judicial control is lacking that the bill gives far too much power to the DVZ, absolute power, I even hear say. That is absolutely not true. It is like the Council of Foreigners' Contests, the RVV, which is an administrative court, with many judges in it, who have confirmed that. In its ruling, the RVV stated that, according to a very important European judgment, repatriation could take place, was legitimate, correct. Go ahead, as the RVV said, because it is fully in line with European law. There is also the opinion of the Council of State, which reviews legislative texts in accordance with the Constitution and international legal standards. It is not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. It is not contrary to our Constitution. It is not contrary to our fundamental rights. The Council of State did not make any fundamental comments on that part. Nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u172	Mr President, in the reply of the Secretary of State, I do not see the connection with what I have just said. Whatever. The 17 people to whom you have withdrawn your nationality, who are still in Syria and who represent a danger to our country and our population, the imam of Verviers or any other unconvicted criminal are now in the sights of the State Security and the police. These people are most often followed extremely closely. They represent a danger and are more useful under the radar of our intelligence and police services than abroad, far from any control capacity for our intelligence and police services. We are talking about many European countries, but among those who will be expelled, some of them will be sent back to countries that do not have the technical capacity to follow them day by day, hour by hour, to know what they say, what they do or who they meet. In the name of an extremely broad interpretation of what national security and public order are, these people will be sent, such as a hot potato, to countries that do not have the means to monitor them. Suddenly, they will be dangerous for the population of the country where they will be found, but they will remain dangerous for our population thanks to the Internet and the proliferation of means of communication and transport. Mr. Secretary of State, your measure is, from a security point of view, powder in the eyes. Your goal is not to guarantee more security. Your goal is to make sure you're more visible, and we understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u173	Mr. Chair, the CDH Group will support this bill because we understand the importance of measures to preserve public order and national security, particularly in this time of terrorist threat. There is a need to respond quickly to threats, including by removing procedural barriers to effective removal. However, we would like to recall our rejection of any form of amalgam between migrants, criminals and fraudsters. During the debate in committee, we recalled the importance of respecting the principle of proportionality. We have abstained on some articles, because we believe that we still do not have all the guarantees regarding the interpretation of the concepts of public order and national security. In this regard, we regret the removal of the prior opinion of the Consultative Commission on Foreigners. Sufficient guarantees must be provided with regard to respect for the rights of the person concerned. A broad discretion is left to the authority for the application and interpretation of the concept of public policy. It is therefore appropriate to define this concept by specific criteria. It is important that the authorities carry out a comprehensive, detailed and case-by-case assessment of the proportionality of the behaviour of the person with the threat he or she represents, his or her fundamental rights and the links he or she has established with Belgian society. The draft provides that when a decision on expulsion is envisaged, account shall be taken of the length of stay, age, state of health, family and economic situation, social and cultural integration and the intensity of the links with the country of origin. In this regard, we stress the importance of the graduation of measures. We also stress the evaluation of measures implemented in this project and, more generally, the overall evaluation of the return policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u174	Mr President, we agree with the intention of this draft law, which contains a number of positive elements. We can only welcome the introduction of simpler and more efficient procedures and the abolition of the delay advice. It is also a good thing that the appeal is no longer suspensive for expulsion, unfortunately only in a limited number of cases. These are certainly positive elements. You will not blame me for mentioning a number of things, which I find less positive. If one is expelled today under the current system, it will automatically be subject to a ten-year ban on entry. This draft law will repeal it. As Mrs Smeyers pointed out in her speech, the entry ban may be longer. That is, of course, a good thing. She cited the example that it could now be 20 years. Unfortunately, it can be less. One can also get an entry ban of one or two years. Then it's even a weakening to the current system. For us, it would have been better if there had been a minimum of ten years of entry ban instead of fewer years of entry bans. Nor is it so positive that this is a very limited number of cases. The Secretary of State spoke in committee about some 70 people. Mr Pivin has just confirmed that. The fact that procedural guarantees are extended, with a great deal of procedural guarantees and contextualisation as a result, weakens the good draft law. The very extensive proportionality test runs it for a bit. Of course, that is not a good thing. If I look at the report, CD&V is very proud that it cannot be about thieves and street criminals, but that is the opposite of what I heard Mrs Smeyers say on Radio 1 this morning, namely that it is about rapists and burglars. When it comes to some 70 cases, it is not about rapists and burglars and street criminals, but about a very limited number of serious cases. Today we have a prison population of 10 000 to 11 000 prisoners. According to the most recent statistics, 55% of them have Belgian nationality, i.e. 45% do not have Belgian nationality. So we have at least 4 500 to 5 000 strangers with criminal backgrounds in our prisons. Then there is a draft law which makes it possible to point out some 70 people, but it is very limited. We have tabled a series of amendments to make a number of improvements to the draft law. Even though the draft law refers to very serious cases, serious reasons, foreigners threatening public order or national security, it says that expulsion can follow in these cases. We want to remove that optional character. For us, it should not be possible for such foreigners to be expelled. Anyone who threatens public order and is a threat to national security must be automatically deported. We want to take this optional nature out of it with all our amendments. We also want to take out the very extensive proportionality test with our amendments. Honestly, if anyone is a threat to national security and to public order, it's gonna be hard for me whether they're staying in the country for 15 or 20 years or what their age is. All these criteria are irrelevant in such difficult cases. You have all received the amendments. We are counting on your support to improve the draft law to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u175	Mrs Pas, first of all, with regard to the entry ban of 10 years, you say that you find it less interesting that there is no longer a deadline. The entry ban always on 10 years was no longer accepted by the Council for Foreign Affairs Disputes. He said it always needs to be motivated individually. A standard at 3 years, 5 years or 10 years is no longer possible. This, in line with European case law, is not legally sustainable. So we can't do that anymore. That's why we're adjusting it. That is also stated in the explanatory memorandum. Secondly, as far as the proportionality test is concerned, I personally think it is logical that it should be included. Even if they are not included in the law, according to the caselaw, there must be a proportionality test when it comes to withdrawing the right of residence of foreign nationals. According to European case law, this is always the case. It is true that fellow Members have asked for them to be explicitly inserted into the law. That's what we did. If you say that you want to take it out again with your amendment, then that would not change much in fact, because it must always be there. That test is happening now. Now it is not explicitly stated in the law, but it must always be proportionate and proportionate to the degree of integration, to having a family and so on. Otherwise they will get into trouble. That's how it's done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u176	I understand that people always want to color within the lines of the European Union and other regulations, but that does not mean that you have not responded to the other series of amendments on the optional nature. I stick with my remarks that it is too limited, that it is a missed opportunity and that it could have been much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u177	Mr. Speaker, this bill is not only dangerous to democratic rights but is also counterproductive to the purported goals. These are the reasons why we will vote against. From a general point of view, this project makes it possible to speed up and increase removals on grounds of public order, including for persons with valid residence permits and without being convicted by a court. The administration, not a judge, therefore decides directly whether someone is a threat without having to be proved and without the person being able to defend himself. We don't know what a threat is, or what we're based on. Will a trade unionist of Moroccan origin ever be a threat because he is involved in a wild strike or factory occupation? This project potentially opens the door to arbitrariness and violates the principle of presumption of innocence, which is a major problem. Furthermore, the abolition of section 21 of the 1980 Act represents a significant change in the extent to which it makes it possible to expel persons born here or who arrive before the age of 12 and who are totally part of our society. In addition, in the event of a conviction, the expulsion of persons born here and who have grown up here reintroduces the double penalty. Indeed, the double penalty is a return to the country of which one is a national after having been convicted and having served his sentence. Yet the people who were born and grew up in our country are a pure product of our society. Like everyone else, they have rights and duties. If they have committed a crime, they must be tried and serve their sentence, like any citizen. But evicting them is a second sentence. How can this second sentence be justified? It will be a second sentence because all their families live in Belgium, because they do not necessarily speak the language of the country to which they will be returned, a country in which they have no future. This is a flagrant discrimination. We're creating a class of sub-citizens. These different elements taken separately are already inadmissible. If we take them together, we understand the dangerousness of the project that will be voted on. Finally, we believe that this bill may be counterproductive. First of all, one may wonder whether expelling people rather than judging them here will better guarantee the safety and protection of public order. What is needed is for people who have committed misconduct to be tried, convicted and serving their sentences in our country. In addition, the message sent is wider. This is a signal to all those who have come from immigration, whether or not they have been born in Belgium, whether or not they have lived with us for the rest of their lives. Those persons who, like Belgians, have not chosen the nationality received from their parents, are referred to as a sub-category of citizens who can be expelled. This creates second-class citizens. This is a message of exclusion sent not to terrorists or criminals but to many Belgian citizens who participate positively in society, at a time when it is important to strengthen living together and to build a society where every citizen has a place in his or her own right, regardless of his or her origin. That is why we consider this draft to be inconvenient and why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u178	Mr President, there is a unique and special draft law for this. Faster and more efficient action when public order or national security is compromised cannot really be opposed. I don't think anyone here in the Half-Round is against that. The notion of public order and the notion of national security are, of course, extremely vague. I have heard Secretary of State Francken quote the case law, but those definitions in the case law are at least as vague as the concepts themselves. These definitions cannot go much further. A real and an actual threat, what does that add to that other understanding? A deterioration in the functioning of the institutions is as vague as national security or public order. I don't think we should get the mustard there. Democracy must, of course, be resilient. There is also a rather extensive case law on this issue. In certain cases, this presupposes effective rules on return, expulsion and, in certain cases, a ban on entry. In this sense, my group can agree with that. I do think that your design, there is always a certain degree of unpredictability because human rights evolve just as the vision and justice evolve, colors within the lines. You're on the edge, but it's still inside the lines. In this sense, I think it is important that it shows, I know that some members of the government are not convinced of it, that it is possible to colour within the lines of Strasbourg and that it is possible to take similar far-reaching measures. It is not the case that the ECHR prevents effective or far-reaching action from being taken. Of course, the Strasbourg test will be applied, not only to the law, but also to any practical application of the law. That is the control that is taking place in Strasbourg. We are looking at the law and its practical application. It may be perfect that Strasbourg considers that a law is in line with the ECHR, but that a concrete application in a particular case is contrary to the Treaty. It's a double key. I also notice in the media that your bill gives rise to unrest. I see an opinion piece on knack.be by one of Knack's young but talented journalists, who says: 'No Belgian nationality, welcome to second-class citizens'. That's something I'm sensitive about, and I thank you for. There should and should not be second-class citizens, especially when it comes to human rights. That is why I would like to see what that will assume when we apply this draft in concrete terms, a bit of that fear of second-class citizenship. That presupposes a proportionality test. You are right when you say that it is actually the same whether it is in the draft or not, because it is higher legal standards that require this proportionality test. That is true, but that means that the proportionality test will have to take into account all kinds of elements, for example the links that the person concerned has with the country of origin to which he might be returned. That is an important element. A very important element in this will be that this will have to be justified individually. And let that be just the weak side of the DVZ. Let the individual motivation be just the weak side. This has recently been proven in several files, such as in the file on the Syrian family applying for a visa and in the file on the Afghan family that could not supposedly be returned to Germany. A very important, essential element to pass this proportionality test will have to be an individual justification. A second element to colour within the lines is that there has to be a judicial review. She's still here, even if she's weakened. In that sense, I can still follow. However, the test is carried out by the Council for Aliens' Contests. I was a little surprised when your answers to a colleague's questions showed that you now suddenly have a great deal of confidence in that Council for Foreign Affairs. But it was different a month ago. At that time, I heard support from Theo... and foreign judges from the However, it is the same Council for Aliens' Contests. Has anything changed in the composition, or has your judgment changed? Have new appointments taken place or promotions taken place there? Did they teach courses there? I do not know what has changed, but I am a little surprised at the curious evolution in the appreciation of the Council for Foreigner's Contests which now enjoys all the confidence that was not actually the case a month ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u179	Mr Vuye, I don't know if you're fishing to teach some of the magistrates of the Council of Foreign Ministers or the Attachees? As far as I know, there are no courses taught there. It is the case that the RVV is responsible and competent, and you know that perfectly well for all the foreign law matters. That is the administrative court on the matter. It always is. The Council for Aliens' Contests, as I have always said, you have to tell the full story, and you have also justified the judgment on Dison's Imam. It's now gone to Cassatie and we'll see what the final verdict will be. What I'm saying is, first of all, this is definitely not a black and white story. Secondly, that the decision will be justified on an individual basis. You say there's a problem with the Foreign Office, but I personally disagree. This week, following the opinion of the Advocate General, it became clear that it was a very fundamental issue, and that no matter how we motivated it, it would not have mattered. It is therefore an effective interpretation, in which the court concerned states that Article 3 applies in Beirut and Aleppo. You said that last time, by the way. Luckily, you don't follow that opinion, just like I do. The individual motivation is not a problem, the decision will be individually motivated. Will we never have a case leading to destruction by the RVV, or later by a European court? Probably. But we're gonna have to see that. In any case, you cannot deny that this is an instrument that already exists and is now being re-established, with which we have an additional argument against serious crime and threats to national security. Is that blissful? Of course not. But it is an additional tool for policy-makers to act and, I think, to get the country a lot safer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u180	The latter was a correct answer, but to a question I did not ask. I always appreciate it when a member of the government engages in a legal debate with me. I always think it's very fair to try that. Mr Francken, there are two different things. There is the case law of Strasbourg, on which I have made a ruling here, on the visa of the Syrian family. This covered the scope of Article 3 of the ECHR. That scope of Article 3 of the ECHR is determined by Article 1, which states: one must be subject to the jurisdiction of... . There is a very extensive case law on this. The opinion of the Advocate General, from which you have just quoted, is not about that at all, that is not about the Charter. There the scope is completely different. There is the scope of Article 51 which provides that the Charter shall apply as soon as European Union law is applied. That is what the debate is about. The debate before the Court between the judges will be on whether or not territorial jurisdiction is implicitly included in the Charter. That's what it'll be about. However, Article 51 of the Charter applies a completely different criterion that is the ECHR. With regard to the judicial review, I suspect that the Council of Foreigners' Contests will very much like to read the report of these debates and that the appreciation is completely different. Thirdly, in order not to create second-class citizens, it will also be important to ensure that expulsion is effective not a punishment, but a measure of security. You have just made that very clear. There is a lot of confusion about this when I hear some of my fellow Members' speeches. A measure of security can be taken against someone who has not been convicted, but also against someone who has already been convicted and who is still in the country for some reason. That is a useful instrument in itself. However, I would like to add the following which has not yet been mentioned in this debate. It is a useful instrument, it will find little application, it is quite clear, you have said it in committee, but in the cases where it will be applied it can really be a useful instrument. However, as soon as the proportionality test is ignored, because there is not sufficient individual motivation or for any other reason, you will be sitting here with a very serious case of public liability. Then you have a very serious case of public liability, because the damage that is then done to someone is particularly great. It will therefore also be an instrument with which we will have to deal very carefully. Once again, democracy must be resilient. My group's final conclusion is that this instrument will be useful. However, it will not be applied very much. That's also normal, because it's a pretty far-reaching procedure. However, in some cases it can be effective. That is why we will support it and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, it was an interesting debate. I believe that the draft is sufficiently balanced. That turned out to be the case, as it passed the test of the Council of State with brio. It is therefore legally sufficiently balanced in respect of basic rights. In addition, there are many other points that have perhaps been less addressed, but which are nevertheless extremely important for the operation, including in relation to the follow-up of the order to leave the territory. And I fully agree, Mr Pivin; as a mayor here in Brussels, it is necessary to carry out orders to leave the territory. Because it was a problem in the past. That is still a discussion, a difficulty. The effective follow-up of orders to leave the territory is one of the government's biggest challenges. That's certainly true, because it's very frustrating for police and mayors, whatever I am, as you know. That is indeed sometimes terribly frustrating. That is why, of course, we need the present design. In addition, there are many other additional measures that have perhaps been less highlighted, but which ensure that we can pursue a more efficient, easier and complete policy of expulsion with the focus on criminals and crime. That's the most important thing for me. It has also been agreed in an amendment by the majority to carry out an evaluation. This evaluation will actually be carried out in Parliament. Questions can always be asked about the application of those articles. That's no problem at all. I am always at Parliament's disposal when there are questions: how many times has it been applied; is it with or without condemnation; if there was no condemnation, what was the context of the story; what did the Council say about alien disputes and so on? It will certainly come back to Parliament very often and I am always at the disposal of Members to go into more detail about the praxis of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u182	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u183	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2215/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2215/4) The draft law contains 53 articles. The bill has 53 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u184	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Conclusion de la discussion des articles: Reserved: the vote on amendments and Articles 9, 11, 12, 14, 24 to 26 and 38. Held: the vote on the amendments and Rules 9, 11, 12, 14, 24 to 26 and 38. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 8, 10, 13, 15 to 23, 27 to 37, 39 to 53. Adopted article by article: articles 1 to 8, 10, 13, 15 to 23, 27 to 37, 39 to 53. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u185	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Smeyers, referred to her written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u186	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2216/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2216/3) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending Article 39/79 of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals." The title has been amended by the committee into a bill amending section 39/79 of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens. The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u187	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u188	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 3. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u189	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u190	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Stéphanie Thoron, Philippe Goffin, Gautier Calomne, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Vincent Scourneau, Gilles Foret, Carina Van Cauter, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Denis Ducrame, Damien Thiéry
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u191	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u192	Mr. Speaker, this bill is one of those that should win the consent of as many as possible, so many of us share the goal. It deals with prenatal recognition of a child by unmarried parents. It appears that, while the legislation remains silent in this regard, the civil registry services of several communes in the Kingdom have the authority to rule, for example, that a declaration cannot be made before six months of pregnancy. The proposal is intended to allow prenatal recognition by an unmarried parent as soon as a medical certificate establishes that pregnancy. Even if the text was not to raise a challenge, Ms. Ôzen of the PS made an observation. She was concerned that such legislation would not grant a status to the unborn child and jeopardize the legal criteria for abortion within a certain period of time. The Commissioners who voted in favour of this text, and I would like to remind you here, have taken the view that the two situations should not be confused, since they were two completely separate issues. Well understood, the proposal allows prenatal recognition as soon as the child is medically recognized – without any other possible interpretation. The text was adopted unanimously, less Ms Özen's abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, and contrary to what some would suggest, there is no question here of returning to the status of the unborn child or to the right to abortion, which the MR has always supported. We will never come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u194	As you know, the purpose of this bill is to standardize a practice that, although implemented in many municipal administrations, does not meet the requirements of the Prenatal Recognition by Unmarried Couples Act. As you also know, it takes effect when children are born and viable. The sole objective of this proposal is to put citizens on an equal footing by ensuring that in matters of filiation, a child equals a child, without any disparity depending on the municipality of birth. Today, many jurisdictions require six months of pregnancy before prenatal recognition; others do not. An overview of some 40 administrations in the country revealed this. Take, for example, three neighbouring communes in the province of Namur: Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, Fosses-la-Ville and Sambreville. While the first two require a six-month pregnancy certificate, the third does not impose a time limit. Thus, in this example, I am resident in Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, I have a friend who lives in Sambreville, in my commune, I had to wait six months while my friend's companion was able to make an acknowledgement right away. If I take your municipality, Mrs Özen, in Aiseau-Presles, there is also no deadline requirement. It is therefore really a matter of clarifying the law so that the citizen, whatever his municipality, can make an antenatal recognition as soon as the pregnancy is attested by the medical staff. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me necessary to go back to two very important points: firstly, the need for this amendment of the Civil Code; secondly, as our colleague Christian Brotcorne pointed out in committee and as I have already said, the fact that this text should not be given a scope which it does not have. With regard to the need for this proposal, I would like to thank the government and, in particular, the Minister of Justice, whom I asked about this two years ago, for their support of the proposal. In this regard, in committee, the minister's representative was, it is impossible to be clear, indicating that an investigation shows that there is a difference in treatment according to the registrar. The law does not set a threshold. It is in the child's interest to be recognized as soon as possible. In the past, the legislator had already intervened in this direction. It is therefore in the interests of legal certainty and consistency that the Minister and the government support this proposal. On the other hand, this text should not be given a scope that it does not have. This clarification of the Civil Code will in no way indirectly recognise a status for a child born unviable, Mrs Özen. Simply because recognition only takes effect once the child is born viable. Under no circumstances is it a matter of amending the substance of the law of the Civil Code, but only the form, in order to put all citizens on an equal footing. This element was also confirmed by the Minister's representative in committee, as he indicated that the status of the child was not affected because recognition only had its effect once the child was born viable and that, of course, the mother must always give her consent to the child's recognition. In conclusion, I would like to thank all colleagues who have grasped the importance of the aspects of what I have just presented to you. For the MR Group, I would like to welcome the fact that this proposal has almost won the unanimous vote in committee. Finally, since the question of the scope of this bill has been settled, and above all because a child must be equal to a child in Belgium, and also in relation to filiation, whether the parents are from Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, Sambreville, Aiseau-Presles, Ostende or Ixelles, I invite our colleagues who abstained to support this bill today, whose sole objective is to enshrine the major principle of equality of citizens before the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here with a proposal for a law to allow a parent of an unmarried couple to recognize a child at any time on the basis of a pregnancy certificate issued by a doctor. As a first step, it can be said that the bill promotes legal certainty by putting an end to differences in the practices applied by the administrations, as you pointed out, Ms. Thoron; and that it will facilitate one mother's actions in the event of the death of the other parent. If the current law is silent about the time it takes to recognize a child before birth, we cannot limit ourselves to the only argument of legal certainty. Does it make sense for you to establish a bond of filiation with a foetus or embryo while the mother is still potentially likely to have an interruption of pregnancy? We are given as a justification that recognition will not take effect until after birth. Happy again! But there is, you will admit, a legal bizarreness that is rooted in the law. All right, there is legal uncertainty and different administrative practices from one municipality to another. You have given practical examples. We have to put an end to it. But we do not intervene in the right direction either on the substance or on the form, since the chosen means are questionable. You know, like me, that in order to counter administrative practice, a circular would be enough to harmonize practices. Making a law is completely useless. This is an error in the legal methodology and the use of the law for administrative purposes. If the law does not provide for a period of time, the policy of certain municipal administrations does not seem absurd, since they require a period of six months which in fact corresponds to the 180-day period required by article 80 bis of the Civil Code concerning the recognition of children born without life. It is little or no the current limit of viability, 25 weeks since conception. This proposal poses a new threat, such as the proposals for a law on children born without life, on the rights of women in Belgium. This recognition of parents is part of a dangerous process. This is first of all an implicit recognition of the foetus, since a parent is given the opportunity to recognize the unborn child from the first days of pregnancy. What is the next stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u196	Mrs Özen, there is something that I do not understand in your reasoning. If you are believed, even if you do not say so clearly, the proposal that we would be voting for today, especially if it were implemented very early in pregnancy, would prevent de facto parents, if I can hear you well, by a form of recognition beyond what they want for this child, from performing abortion again if they are still in time. On the contrary, I believe that recognition as suggested today would not prevent the implementation of the right to abortion for reasons that would appear after this recognition, provided that the persons concerned are subject to the conditions of the law. I do not see very well what you fear in this text. You risk creating an amalgam that is not appropriate and could be dangerous for the thesis that you seem to want to defend. On the contrary, it is necessary to avoid making a link between the two laws at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u197	I'm just saying that from that moment on, there is a legal recognition without delay that is fixed. The person is pregnant. After about two weeks, she'll take her blood. There's a recognition of her pregnancy, which she can put forward. She goes to the administration and we'll recognize the filiation in her couple. What if there's an interruption in pregnancy? What effect will this have? Why undertake this recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u198	I'm always surprised how you're mixing things up. Allow me to continue my speech in Dutch. It's about the recognition of a child. Mrs Özen, I continue to be amazed at the way in which your group is constantly trying to link discussions and proposals to the recognition of a child who has not yet been born to legislation on termination of pregnancy, because that is what you are talking about. As a good lawyer, you should know, as my colleague has just said, that this recognition will only become real when the child is born and is viable. That recognition does not previously have the value you want to assign to it. This does not prevent the application of current legislation on termination of pregnancy. I continue to find it offensive how you always want to interpret the rules differently from what they ultimately are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u199	Mrs Becq, I'm not amalgamating. I simply say that this is a dangerous process. Why? Because from the moment when there is implicit recognition of the foetus, since one gives the opportunity to recognize the unborn child in the first days of its conception, it is an open door to an official recognition of the foetus. So this is, whether we are aware of it or not, a hijacked way of ultimately tackling the termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u200	Mrs Özen, you are actually saying to parents who are happy that they are pregnant that they should not be happy about it but that they should be happy until the child is born or until the time limit within which a pregnancy break is possible. However, all science says that it is very important how parents experience their pregnancy to know how welcome their child is and that this affects later development. However, you say that parents should not be happy until they know they are pregnant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u201	Mrs Özen, I agree with the previous statements and I think you are mixing things up. We're not in the abortion debate at all. Nothing is called into question in relation to this. In the end, the current provision is not altered because today the Civil Code allows for such recognition. The principle is simply to standardize and give a fairer time frame so that all municipal administrations can rely on this element and apply the same functioning. I also want to say that from the moment a couple is married, the father is the husband. We agree. On its own initiative, it is the basic act of marriage that makes filiation established. In this case, it is simply a matter of doing the same for the recognition of filiation, paternity. This is the same principle and does not alter the current provision. We're not going back to the abortion debate at all. That is not the case, and I think that Mr Brotcorne and Mrs Becq have also said so. We're not in this at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u202	This is not a discussion about abortion, for the simple reason that the fetus has no legal personality. The Civil Code is clear about that. In order to have legal personality, the child must be born alive and viable. Therefore, the legislative proposal provides that recognition will have consequences only when both cumulative conditions are met, born alive and viable. The current law does not set a threshold or age limit. This is merely a clarification because of regional differences. So I do not see how the debate is coming about. We did not have them in committee either, unless I had missed them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u203	For a good understanding, I repeat. Maybe it'll get through eventually. Mrs Thoron and other fellow Members confirmed in committee that the scope of the text is only clarified, with recognition remaining without effect if the child is not born viable. This was emphasised once again by a number of fellow Members. It is also clear from the text. Nothing's gonna change that. Your concern, Mrs Özen, may perhaps be overcome. We may be able to convince you to accept Mr Thoron's excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I support this proposal in part. Indeed, it is necessary to standardize. As a civil state officer, I can say that it is always easier to have clear rules when citizens have to act, especially when this is as sensitive a matter as the one before us. I therefore welcome the part of the bill that is aimed at standardization. However, the proposal before us is problematic in that the declaration can be made on the first day of pregnancy. Mr. Brotcorne, you mentioned the couple who decide to abort. But if the woman decides to do so, what will be the pressure she will be under since an act has been committed? Moreover, in the event of an abortion or the loss of the child, there will remain a trace, whereas this is not the case for married couples. Indeed, the act will remain in the civil status files. If you have any doubts, I invite you, like me, to consult with the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u205	Mr. President, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u206	So what? So I'm having a problem with that. Indeed, your reflection "what then?" is proof that this is an open door to recognition, tomorrow, of the fetuses. (...): It is a free choice!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u207	Mr. President, Mrs. Fernandez, you're talking about "trace." But it will simply become an act that is not applicable. As Mrs. Thoron said earlier, when a married couple has a child, the husband is presumed to be the father. The effects come out when the child is born alive and viable. Why not recognize this right to two people who are not married and who decide to conceive a child? Why withdraw the right of the presumed father to declare, with the consent of the mother, that the lady with whom he has a relationship is pregnant? Can the law not simply recognize a situation of fact without attaching rights to it that are not to be handed over or included in the discussion? We agree on that. We can play words and spend hours there, but we don't talk about the same thing. You've been shown on several occasions that we're not talking about the same thing. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u208	Mr President, I would simply remind Mr Goffin that the mother is known, and there is nowhere in the right to patent certus es. So there is a presumption that is rebuttable. Here, you create a right that is not rebuttable, because there is a declaration of recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u209	I would, however, like to respond to the first argument put forward by Mrs Thoron, which is, as has been said, to standardize administrative practices. There is a methodological concern to do so through a law because a circular would have been sufficient to harmonize administrative practice, first. Secondly, under the guise of helping women in their efforts, in fact, it gradually weakens – I say – access to abortion. Why? What is easier than limiting the right to abortion by arguing that it is not logical for a woman to abort an unborn child when filiation has already been established. It is for these two reasons that we will not support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u210	I will reply very briefly to Mr Massin. Okay, there's a presumption. How can you explain then to the gentleman and to everyone who are not necessarily legal, that two people – I come back with my simple example – have a relationship that ends with the pregnancy of the lady and that sir, however with the consent of the lady, cannot simply recognize a fact, namely that she is pregnant? It is explained to the gentleman who, thanks to the lady, was able to recognize that he was at the origin of this, that the possible effects will only come out when the child is born alive and viable. Therefore, no legal value other than a fact has occurred and an act will simply be able to see it. I can't understand that it's hard to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u211	Mr Goffin, I fully understand your reasoning. Having said that, can you confirm to me that a man who has made such recognition will not be able to bring legal proceedings against a woman wishing to perform an abortion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u212	The reasoning will be applied by exact analogy with the situation of a married couple.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u213	It's not the same thing at all! You know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u214	The mother is the sole holder of this right. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u215	No. This will not be the case at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u216	Yes, since we don't touch that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u217	In the situation of a married couple, no action is taken. Which means the husband cannot oppose it. Tomorrow, an administrative act will be laid down which can therefore open a right of opposition. We'll see what the court will say later, but there's a possibility. That is what we want to avoid!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u218	Mr Massin, I disagree with you. This right belongs exclusively to the mother. In the case of a married couple, the father cannot oppose it. There is a presumption that the husband is the father. It does not give him the right to oppose it. The text proposed here merely acknowledges a fact. To make it clear, "Mr. Pregnant Madame." This will not give her the right to oppose the mother's right to decide on abortion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u219	Mr President, I hear what Mr Massin says. I think we're trying to play words. I have before me a brochure of Solidaris. On page 6 of the report, on the abortion law and respect for freedom of choice, it states: "A woman who, for various reasons, considers that she is unable to continue her pregnancy must be respected. No one can decide in his place and no one has the right to influence him in one direction or the other. No one else than she can dispose of her body." What does the law say about abortion? It states that it is the mother who decides and that the father has nothing to say about it – as Le Ligueur also recalls in his brochure. Whether the couple is married or not, it doesn't change anything. The purpose of this text is not to grant an additional fee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u220	Mrs Thoron, I fully agree with you. The brochure is perfectly correct. However, the bill will introduce the right to object. You're going to change the legal framework, but you're refusing to understand it. You have your position; I have mine. While we will continue to discuss and exchange arguments, we will not change our mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u221	We have to try anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u222	Mr President, I see a flaw in our colleague Massin's legal reasoning. I fully agree with the statement made by the Chairman of the Committee on Justice, Mr Goffin. Eric Massin forgets that this act to which he wants to give effect...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u223	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u224	Yes, that's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u225	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u226	One after the other. First, Mr. Brotcorne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u227	We must go to the end of the legal reasoning. This act will have legal effect only if the child is born viable. If, in the meantime, there has been an abortion, it is obvious that this act will have no effect since the child was not born viable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u228	He'll be able to say it. And you know that, Christian!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u229	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u230	The only fact he can say is a restriction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u231	Mr Massin, I will complete Mr Brotcorne's speech. Since, in a married couple, the husband is presumed to be the father, he could also appear before the judge invoking this argument. But it does not work, since it is only the mother who can make the decision. The presumption that the husband is the presumed father does not, however, give him the right to go before the judge by saying: "No, I refuse my wife the right to abort". The same principle prevails here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u232	Mr President, I must admit that the debate may take on an exaggerated dimension. Nevertheless, I cannot quite understand why civil law and the status of the person must be changed – because they are provisions relating to the status of persons – in order to solve an administrative procedural problem. I think we've used an inappropriate legal route. I will not go so far as to say, like Mr Massin, that the provision under our consideration would have the effect of granting the father a right to oppose the right to abortion freely exercised by the mother. I won't go that far. I fear that the scope of the provision may not have been properly assessed and I would like to know whether, for the author – but in this case it should have been more precise in the text – in the Civil Code, recognition of the conceived child is granted. This is still the consequence, which has no equivalent for the husband. It is not correct to say that there is a total legal similarity. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u233	No, not at the time of conception! At the time of birth! It's very different. There's a big difference! So I wonder what the possible legal consequences of this recognition of the child under the Civil Code will be tomorrow. However, it is a completely new concept, a little surprising, and all this to solve a problem of administrative formalities to know when recognition can be made to the civil registry. I recognize that the author has nevertheless chosen a legal route that could open up to applications. I will not go, like Mr Massin or others, until I say that the right to abortion could be challenged. I don't believe it. I honestly do not believe that this law can be interpreted as a restriction on the law on the decriminalization of abortion. On the other hand, in terms of civil liability, if there were acts that harmed the conceived child, since there is now a legal recognition of the conceived child that is acquired, then I am beginning to wonder whether you are not going beyond what was the positive right at present. Recognition of a conceived child may take place at any time. It is innovative as a concept in civil law. I believe that an exaggerated legal formula has been used to solve a problem of purely administrative formality. That is my appreciation of this mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u234	I'm a civilist, not a familyist. But at the time of my law studies, I was still taught this adage:infans conceptus pro nato habetur, the conceived child can be considered as a person of law. Mr Maingain says that the conceived child is not a reality. Yes! I can make a donation to an unborn child, I can put an unborn child on my will. He has a legal reality. It's not an imagination at all. It's a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u235	I've given all my arguments, I'm not going to repeat them forever. I think we have gone around the debate. Everyone has their point of view, I keep mine. I agree in part with what Mr Maingain said: the way of the law is not the most appropriate to regulate administrative formality or administrative practices that are different from one municipality to another. If there is a recognition of filiation at any time of conception, it is an open door for questioning abortion in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u236	I would have liked to have a little more clarification from the members of the Committee on Justice because I am told that this possibility already exists. If that is the case, the questions we are asking ourselves already arise, and without creating a problem. Why is this a problem if we change the law and that is not a problem if we do not change it? It is already possible for a future father to recognize his child from conception.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u237	The Chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr Goffin, is with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u238	Listening to you, Mrs. Gerkens and Mr. Maingain, we have the impression that we are creating a new law and writing a new article. This article already exists. The only thing not provided for in the article as drafted is a time limit. He's not talking about a moment, it's true, but the article exists. Today, I do not know if this is the case in your municipality, Mrs Thoron has cited communes in which it is possible from the first day. That's already the case. So we do not create something new, we create legal certainty by clarifying the text by saying: "This can be done at such a time". You said earlier that this could be done by circular. However, this is not the first time that the Civil Code provides for time limits. It is not abnormal to provide for this in the Civil Code. That's the case here. We do not create a new right; we simply specify it. Listening to you, we feel like we're creating something that doesn't exist. That is not the case, and you must recognize it. "It might suggest that," but it's not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u239	It would have been much simpler to make it clear that this was possible only after the three-month deadline had expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u240	There is no need to clarify this, since it does not affect the problem of abortion at all. We just gave all the arguments. We're not going to start the debate again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u241	Mr Goffin, do you know that in some communes we are just waiting for this deadline to expire and in others? I can understand the arbitrariness, but the municipalities that are more restrictive and perhaps more protective of certain rights will no longer be able to say tomorrow: "No, I want to wait until the deadline expires to allow this woman to say that she wants to do something like this." [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u242	No, it's not arbitrary. Arbitrariness will exist tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not originally intend to make a statement, but I shall do so. I continue to be amazed at the legal texts as they exist today, which state that a number of rights or recognition, which is already possible today, only give legal personality to a child at the time when it was born alive and viable. That recognition is thus established because in this way, for example, when the father or the co-parent would die before birth, a donation or an inheritance can be given. At the same time, it is also recognised, specifically for unmarried couples, that the father or co-mother can already indicate that he or she considers the child to be important, compassionate and happy with the pregnancy. However, I am learning here today that someone can be happy to have a pregnancy when the time limit for abortion is over. Before that, he or she should not be happy about it and it is like someone who cannot have feelings. That is what I am learning here today, because of the way in which the debate is taking place here. We did not sign the proposal at the beginning because we felt that the law was clear and that recognition is already possible today in civil status services before the 180-day deadline. We were not aware of any problem in this matter. We have also learned from the questions put by Mrs Thoron that apparently even the FPS Justice Department gave false information, so that the services of civil status also felt it necessary to see the 180-day period passed before they accepted that a declaration or recognition of a birth would take place. We said that we would support this because it gives more clarity. Was it necessary? No, it wasn't necessary. It simply provides more clarity for the services of civil status. That's an element. I admit, however, that this is not about the right, but about the fact that a child can recognize freely before 180 days, also shows that that unborn life is important, and this is an indication of it. This is about a feeling, a feeling that one may have without creating an extra right. One should be happy with a pregnancy before those 180 days. At the same time, I am calling for a solution to be found to the situation which is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. For the sake of clarity, I would like to reiterate that this is true without creating additional rights, without creating legal personality for unborn life. If parents would like to register an unborn child by means of a birth certificate, a solution must be offered, as stated in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u244	If we had any doubt about this door that you want to open, then we, the Socialist Group, have no more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u245	You are asked to repeat your remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u246	Mrs Becq, I said that if we still have any doubts about this door that you want to open towards the attack on the right to abortion before your speech; after hearing you, we, the Socialist Group, no longer have any.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u247	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u248	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1658/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1658/5) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u249	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u250	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Servais Verherstraeten, Carina Van Cauter, Sophie De Wit
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u251	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u252	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u253	Mr President, if there are no other interventions - I do not know - I would just like to thank my fellow Members for their confidence in adopting the legislative proposal. This will provide a practical solution to a number of existing problems of signatures that are currently to be signed by prison directors, which may in future also be possible by deputy officers. I note that Mrs Özen will still take the floor. I think I know what she's gonna say. I will not anticipate it: I will let her speak and perhaps replicate in a moment, if necessary, which I do not expect immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is obviously to change the definition of prison directors contained, on the one hand, in the laws of principles of 12 January 2005 and, on the other hand, in the law of 17 May 2006, by extending this definition completely artificially to include level A officials. I had the opportunity to remind him during the debates that we had in committee. Of course, my argument is not going to change today. It is true that, in practice, attachés are already carrying out missions which are reserved by law for prison directors because there are precisely not enough officials appointed by royal decree to the post of director. What are we doing to address this problem? The legislation is being amended rather than appointing enough officials to the positions of directors. As I said, this procedure confirms to us that this bill is still due to a desire for savings. Prison directors are not appointed enough because they prefer to pay less for the attachés who are going to carry out the director's duties with the responsibilities that flow from them. If the legislation entrusts a specific responsibility and role to the Director and to him alone, there are objective reasons. It is not a question of questioning the qualities of attachés who, in practice, already perform certain functions as directors, but, on the contrary, the bill has the effect of endorsing the existence of low cost directors, if I may say so. This system also demonstrates its limitations when it is known that allowing Level A people to serve as directors may also lead to the disintegration of other services within the prison, such as the psychosocial service, in so far as the persons in that service will be transferred as serving directors. In conclusion, I would say that it is up to the government to assume its responsibilities and to ensure that there are enough prison directors to meet the needs rather than unblocking the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u255	Mr President, I think you agree with me that re-opening discussions that have been held in committee cannot be the intention in plenary. We're not on the same page there. That has already been said to Mrs Özen. She was right when she said it was to do certain economies and certain efficiency gains. In fact, in the past, there have been a number of statements in which the deputies of the prison directors had signed documents, simply to help the system move forward, which were subsequently destroyed because they did not have the proper legal powers. In doing so, we are putting this in legal order so that the prison directors, the general directors who hold final authority and final responsibility throughout the prisons, can continue to play their role but can also use people at level A, at the highest level within their organisation, to sign certain documents. I understand the P.S.'s plea. They say that these people should all be upgraded and appointed prison director, with all the financial consequences. However, we have not chosen to do so. We are pragmatic about this. We want people with responsibility and with the necessary qualifications to continue taking responsibility. By the way, it's already been done. People in the field also support this bill. I think this is important to know for all the other people who will support this. They can rest assured that this is a good bill. For practical, pragmatic, economic and efficiency reasons, we will soon be able to vote on a good proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u256	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u257	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1857/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1857/6) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u258	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u259	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Carina Van Cauter, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Ine Somers
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u260	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporters, Mrs Uyttersprot and Mr Calomne, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u261	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know it is late, but I am trying. Imagine it. Over the past few months, the police have written about 20 police reports. You ask for help and support, you call for protection, but more than establishing the facts the police cannot do for you. Since you divorced your wife, she's changed beyond recognition. Several times she smashes the house short and small. Until she finds the ultimate means of revenge, your wife is threatening to kill your joint children. You're at your wits' end. You're going to hotels. To a family park. You will do everything you can to keep your children safe. And then your wife will be admitted to a psychiatric hospital. Get some rest. We're clear. But the hospital will fire your wife and not let you know. Four hours later, your 4-year-old son is dead. And then it's your 8-year-old daughter's turn, but with the medication the mama falls asleep, and as a miracle, the girl escapes a horrible death. From prison, your wife is still threatening. This could be a terrifying fictional story, but unfortunately it really happened. It happened to Kim Vanhauwaert, founder of the Society Protect the Children. It is a moving story, ladies and gentlemen, which has caught not only myself but also a number of other fellow Members. On this occasion I would like to thank Kim Vanhauwaert very much for the admirable response he had. He set up a non-profit association which aimed, among other things, at adapting the law of 26 June 1990 on the person of the mentally ill. We have responded to that. The result is that today, hopefully unanimously as in the Committee on Justice, we will adopt this bill. The adapted law will better involve the immediate family in the succession of mentally ill. Thus, the court of peace is obliged to hear the next of kin for a request for admission. All decisions, e.g. inclusion or aftercare, must also be communicated to the family in advance so that they can prepare themselves. Underage children, among others, will be better protected in this way. In concrete terms, the court of peace will have to hear a number of people from the close family of the sick person about the request for admission. Today, that's optional. In addition to the applicant, it concerns the spouse or the person legally living with the sick person or forming an actual family with it. When it is a minor child, the other parent or the person taking care of the child is also heard, even though it is very often the ex-partner of the mentally ill. The legal representatives, usually the parents or guardian of the minor sick, are also heard. Thanks to the duty of hearing, the judge has as broad a view as possible on the situation, which can only benefit decisions. However, this obligation must not lead to unnecessary delays, as we understand it. It was therefore foreseen that a decision would have to be taken within 10 days of the date on which the application for admission was lodged. It is also important that, if the law comes into force, all those involved will also be required to be informed about the decisions taken. Colleagues, thanks to these two measures, close relatives will be better involved in judicial decisions and in the fate of the mentally ill and his minor children. That's important. It is a small step forward, but for many families it can certainly make a difference. Thank you for your unanimous support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u262	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u263	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (765/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (765/8) The bill has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u264	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u265	Proposal for a law tabled by: Bill tabled by: Muriel Gerkens, Stefaan Van Hecke
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u266	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Miller and Mrs Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u267	Mr President, we refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u268	Mr President, I understand from the press that we have contributed to the moment of glory of Mr Van Hecke. We agree with the proposal because we consider the new wording to be important. What's it about? The proposal should resolve problems of adoption where couples, in this case holebi couples, are involved. Moreover, the problems had already become less pressing and even partially resolved thanks to a previous legislative initiative, which I co-written at the time, in particular the law on co-mothers. Our group has made an important contribution, I might add, to the updating of the legislation on adoption, in this case the conditions imposed. The text gives the judge the opportunity to make it possible, if necessary, against the will of a parent adoption. We have laid down precise conditions, clarified the legal framework and included legal cohabitants and actual cohabitants living together for three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u269	Mr President, it is often the case that it takes time for the government or parliament to provide an appropriate response to new judgments of the Constitutional Court, which we have been informed of. That is why we are now discussing a proposal that we have initially tabled in response to a 2012 Constitutional Court ruling, which identifies a problem of equality. An adoption may indeed be refused for no real reason, for example because of the orientation of an adopter. It was our intention to remedy that. Indeed, some time has passed, and some changes have already been made to the legislation. Moreover, in the meantime, the Constitutional Court has also made new judgments in the matter, which required the adaptation proposed by us to be updated and extended in line with the far more recent judgments of the Constitutional Court. I found constructive cooperation with members of the majority in favour of this proposal not a problem and thank them and the minister's cabinet very much for that. In this way, we have been able to update the text, which was based on a 2012 judgment. The text, which may seem technically and legally rather complex, could in practice make a world of difference for a lot of people who used to be confronted with a problem. That's still the most important thing. Once again, I thank the Members of Parliament and hope that the proposal will provide a good answer to some of the judgments of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u270	Mr President, I tabled this proposal with my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke, but I had only the opportunity to introduce it because I was taken by the work of the Health Committee. I would also like to thank the members of the Committee on Justice for examining this bill, which was tabled under the previous legislature by our colleague, Zoé Genot, in order to respond to the difficulties encountered, in particular, by homosexual, gay or lesbian couples. In fact, it was mandatory to receive the consent of the second parent in order to be able to adopt a child with whom they have an emotional and material connection. I thank you for this work which will allow all these people to fulfil their role as parents towards children with whom they share great pieces of life.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u271	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u272	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1152/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1152/7) The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a law amending the Civil Code on adoption." The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the Civil Code with regard to adoption". The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u273	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u274	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u275	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and Institutional Reforms devoted its meeting on 25 January 2017 to the discussion of this bill. In his introduction, Minister Jambon introduced this special bill which aims to extend the right to vote of Belgians residing abroad for the elections of the Parliaments of the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u276	Mr President, I note that the draft law was tabled by two ministers, Mr Jambon and Mr Reynders, and neither is present here. I'd say it's normal for them to be present at the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u277	I think you're right. In any case, there is a need for a technical break to reset the installation. We can make the problem an opportunity. Mr Cheron, I apologize for that. We hope that then the minister will be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u278	Mr. President, I'm always better the second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip156x.u279	Colleagues, I am suspending the session. We're back at 8:15.
