ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u1	Madam Secretary, this question dates back to February. It's been a while, but I'm glad I can put them now. It is about improving the mechanism of the strategic reserve. Your policy paper included that improvements would be proposed to the strategic reserve mechanism for the winter of 2017-2018. In future, this reserve will also be accessible to a larger number of actors, whether directly connected to the transmission network or not. For example, emergency power groups could be involved. The strategic orientation paper shows that a working group has been set up, composed of experts from the CREG, Elia and the AD Energy. A preliminary draft on improving the mechanism of the strategic reserve would be submitted to the Council of Ministers by 15 February 2017 at the latest. I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. A working group has been set up to propose improvements. Can you give us an update on this working group? We are now a few months away. What are the concrete results of this working group? When can we expect a draft law on this matter? Or what steps do we need to take before this happens? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u2	Le groupe de travail sur l'amélioration du mécanisme de la réserve stratégique, composé d'experts de la CREG, du gestionnaire de réseau de transport et de la DG Énergie, s'est réuni six fois en 2016, notamant afin de clarifier les modalités suivantes: the announcement of the decommissioning of the production plants or the change of assets; the return to the market in the event of a temporary decommissioning of the production plant; the revision of the reserve volume to be contracted; admission to the participation of demand management offers in the strategic reserve by emergency flow groups that can operate in island business; exceptional use of the strategic reserve outside the winter period.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u3	The draft bill is currently being discussed in intercabinets and has again been discussed in a working group today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u4	Madam Secretary, this was a rather short answer. I understand everything is still in preparation. Since it is only discussed in the IKW, we will still have to wait some time before it comes here. We will wait and regularly ask a question about the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u5	Mr President, Minister, this question dates back to March. I apologise if some of the points are already out of date. I hope your answer is as up-to-date as possible. On 14 March 2017, the CREG published its study on the analysis of support for offshore wind energy, including the annual report on the effectiveness of the minimum price for offshore wind energy. In the second part of this study, the CREG has converted the Borsselebod III and IV into a support representative of the last three domain concessions in our country. The CREG found that a support of 78 to 80 euros per megawatt hour is representative if account is taken of the lack of economies of scale due to the smaller domain concession. Northwester 2 will be the first park to reach the financial close after 31 December 2016. The support for this park and the other two parks, Mermaid and Seastar, is not yet established. You have indicated that you are reviewing the support for offshore wind energy for the still to be built parks in order to avoid oversubsidisation. Madam Secretary, I had the following questions in March. Northwester 2 is the first park to achieve a financial close. What is the current state of play in the negotiations on future support? Were they scheduled for a timeline? Will the other two parks, Mermaid and Seastar, also be involved in these negotiations? Secondly, the CREG makes an important comment in the study. The result of the Borsseletender applies to a park that will be built in the period 2020-2022, while the three parks in our country must be built in the period 2018-2020. What effect will this have on the aid that will be committed? Thirdly, in order to promote cooperation between countries bordering the North Sea, the Minister has proposed to her French colleague, Mrs Royal, to set up a technical working group to build an offshore wind farm off the Dunkirk coast. Was this technical working group with experts already organized and called together? Who participates in this working group? What is the ultimate purpose of this working group? Meanwhile, Secretary of State De Backer has already made many statements on the support of offshore wind farms. Can you give us an update? Has the government made any decisions on this? Has a mandate been given yet? How do you see the progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to address this subject again because your colleague and Secretary of State for the North Sea has announced that he intends to cancel the concessions granted to the last three Belgian parks in the North Sea in order to launch a European tender. What is the status of this project? Is such a project already on the intercabinets table (IKW), the DAB, or even the government? If yes, when was it filed? Does the division of powers between you and the Secretary of State for the North Sea allow him to formally table such proposals? What is your position on the substance of this idea? What other avenues, if any, do you envisage to lower the prices announced and to push them towards the prices announced in neighbouring countries? Currently, there has been a 48% decrease over two years. Have you ever had an opportunity to share this with him? What guarantees can you give us that the government's procrastination in this area will not jeopardize the achievement of the 2020 targets?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, the decor has just been planted by my colleagues. I would remind you that support for the last three offshore wind concessions has yet to be determined. We have learned, through his statements, that the Secretary of State for the North Sea has commissioned a legal study in order to analyse whether it is possible to cancel the concessions already granted what, in the offshore wind landscape, is a new element. Minister, could you provide us with an update on this matter and your opinion? What are the conclusions of this legal study? Could you pass it on to us? What is the federal government's scenario? Thank you for completing the answers to my questions to those of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the offshore wind industry is a developing industry. Each year, larger wind turbines are built with higher efficiency and therefore higher revenues. It is therefore logical that my collaborators with the government should closely monitor developments. No specific concessions are currently covered. The aim of the work is to have a general view of the development of the offshore sector before studying a particular case. A number of parameters, taken into account in the study of CREG dated 19 December 2016, are being examined very thoroughly. Given that offshore costs have decreased significantly in recent years, it is important to assess these investments over time in order to find the optimal balance between costs on the one hand and the achievement of European climate objectives on the other. In the past, the state concessions in question have been granted without involving a certain level of support. Therefore, for the time being, this level of support should be determined, in close cooperation with the concession holders, in the context of which various factors and developments must be taken into account. As regards the Norther and Rentel parks and the support set out in the Royal Decree of 9 February 2017, the estimated budget for the granting of this support amounts, on an annual basis, to EUR 253 million and, in total, EUR 4.8 billion over 19 years. This estimate included a reference electricity price of €35 per megawatt hour, a correction factor of 10% and a network loss factor of 3%. Furthermore, you know that, in the course of this negotiation, what we have achieved in terms of savings compared to the previous fleet is EUR 1.1 billion less. The financing of this support mechanism operates through the granting by CREG of green certificates per unit of renewable energy produced offshore with a guaranteed minimum price at which the system operator Elia has to buy these certificates, which rebills the cost to the final customer via offshore overload. With respect to the information that the concessions of the last three parks – since these are the ones – Seastar, Mermaid and Northwester 2, which fall within the competence of the Secretary of State for the North Sea, know that the government has not, to date, taken any decision on this matter and that the text that it might propose and the legal study have not yet been submitted to the government. In addition, the level of support given to the last three parks has not been determined – I have just explained it. According to the current state of the legislation, namely the Royal Decree of 16 July 2002 on the establishment of mechanisms for the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, as amended by the Royal Decree of 9 February 2017 for the last two Norther and Rentel parks, the amount of this support must be calculated taking into account a developed cost of energy (LCOE), on a proposal from CREG, after consultation with the holder of the relevant State concession. This consultation between CREG and the concession holders has yet to take place. As a result, no formal proposal has yet been established. Once the support has been set, we will be able to see whether or not the three parks decide to build, and we will then be able to make a possible withdrawal or revocation of the concessions. This means that the plough must not be put before the oxen, nor must the operations be mixed. In the current context, on the basis of a study by CREG published in December, we are trying to have an overall view of what support could provide in Belgium, taking into account what is happening in Holland and Germany. If, at some point, in the worst case, no agreement is possible, which would surprise me, since we are currently in a context of agreement with the parks, even if there is a question of a significant reduction in support, concessions may need to be revoked. This would not be without consequences. It is probable, Mr de Lamotte, that these consequences will be mentioned in the legal study commissioned by the Secretary of State for the North Sea. Of course, it is up to you to ask him the question. Comparing the situation in Belgium with that in the Netherlands is difficult. The circumstances are very different. An important aspect is that Norther and Rentel have already reached their financial close and will be operational in 2019, i.e. before the parks in the Netherlands, for which you saw that the tender had been able to obtain very low support prices. In addition, the European Commission has approved the notified subsidy scheme for Norther and Rentel, as I have already indicated. The three German parks to which you refer will, according to my information, only be put into service in 2025, which will obviously make it possible to use new technologies at lower costs. In addition, the price of steel and the cost of capital must also be taken into account. An offshore transmission station is normally planned in Germany and the Netherlands. In Belgium, it was only recently decided to provide a legal framework to make possible the construction and operation of an offshore grid modular (MOG), which we have just mentioned in the general presentation of the project. The already existing parks provide for their onshore connection themselves by a radial connection called the spaghetti connection. Once this text has been adopted, Elia will have the opportunity to develop this catch at sea. The next three parks will be required to connect. I continue to compare with the other European countries around us. Both the Netherlands and Germany have a simplified authorisation procedure. In particular, the Netherlands provides for the granting of the authorisations required under the trending procedure. Moreover, in the Netherlands the network connection is carried out by the TenneT network operator. In this country, preparatory studies on site characteristics (soil survey, wind speed and current assessment, environmental impact study and others) are carried out and funded by the government. All these factors explain, in fact, why and how the situation differs somewhat from the situation in Belgium. The weather conditions in the Netherlands are very similar to those we know in Belgium, while the weather conditions in Germany are quite incomparable. Wind speeds are, in fact, much higher. Finally, it is important to stress that in Germany, dealers can still withdraw from the project if electricity prices are too low. This means that they have made a bet on rising electricity prices to finance their project and to do without any support, in addition to the very advanced technologies of the machines they will operate by 2025. They can also withdraw from the market if the costs for offshore wind energy have not decreased enough, so if the profitability of the technology they are hoping to obtain is not sufficient. However, it is important to compare as objectively as possible the Belgian situation, within the current legal framework, with the countries around us, in order to best support the development of offshore wind in a stable and affordable environment for the consumer. In December 2016, it was indeed agreed with my French colleague Ségolène Royal to set up a technical working group. The technical working group of experts has not yet met on the basis of other priorities. Shortly, a delegation composed of staff from my cabinet and from the Energy Directorate-General will have a first meeting with French colleagues. This meeting will examine how our two countries can cooperate more closely in the development of offshore energy production, both for the development of parks and cooperation as well as for interconnections and so on. At a later stage, experts from the regulator, the network manager and a representation of the park developers will be involved. My co-workers are in regular contact with Dutch colleagues for an exchange of developments on offshore energy production, which was also agreed in the political declaration on energy cooperation that I signed with my Dutch colleague on 11 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. I would like to emphasise a few things. I believe that, of course, we all think that offshore should be there. At what price, however, should this be done? It is important that we keep an eye on affordability and keep an eye on the invoice. It is good that we also look at the surrounding countries. We must be careful not to compare apples with pears, because every system is different. I am pleased that you are having discussions and that you have a thorough study of the situation in the other countries, so that we know where we might be able to adjust our system. We must, of course, try to avoid oversubsidisation. I also understand that nothing has yet been decided on the three concessions. I have heard from the press that Secretary of State De Backer said they would be cancelled because they cost us way too much money. However, I understand that this is not yet the case, that this has not yet been discussed within the government and that he does not yet have a mandate to do so effectively. Affordability is very important but, on the other hand, we also need to look at the investment security that we have to offer the companies. If subsidies need to be changed, they should preferably be in dialogue with the concessionaires in order to avoid years of legal uncertainty and we have no clarity as to whether we will effectively achieve our climate objectives. Thank you, of course, for your answer. I understand that nothing has yet been decided, and I would argue that we should enter into dialogue in order to avoid legal uncertainty and ensure affordability.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u10	Minister, I was asking you questions with a very specific angle about your differences with the Secretary of State. You say that his text has not yet reached the government. Indeed, it would have been noted in the agendas or in the communications. My question is whether this text came in intercabinets - IKW, DAB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u11	I know you like to interrupt and get answers to your questions, which you call precise. I did not answer that question, but it is very important: at the base, the Secretary of State operates within his own competence, which includes the marine environment and the concessions in the North Sea. Within the framework of this competence, he developed a reflection which was manifested through the press, on the basis of a legal study. To my knowledge, there may have been an IKW on this issue and no more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u12	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u13	That's where we're at. In reality, the purpose of the IKW was to become aware of it and that the document could at some point be sent by it, since it is fully and fully competent on this specific point, to the government. That's why I'm telling you it hasn't intervened in the government yet. In the meantime, I am doing a very thorough analysis, as I have explained at length and in large, which starts from a general analysis - and not yet park by park - of the situation on the basis of the study of the CREG, in relation to what is being done in other countries. I am making sure, as Mrs Dierick said, to compare what is comparable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u14	That's very good! This additional information helps to clarify the situation. Indeed, this has not yet come to the government, but it is known that it was presented in an intercabinet meeting. And then, at this stage in any case, the Secretary of State did not act on it. You explained what you're doing on your side. The Secretary of State is in his power and it is very good too! It remains to be seen whether, in substance, you are prepared to consider a European tender and a cancellation of the concessions awarded, not because the negotiation would not lead to a price that you would consider sufficient, but because, for the principle - and that is, I think, the difference between you and him - you are rather in favour of maintaining the concessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u15	Mr President, I think I answered that question when I said that we were working together with the parks on the basis of the CREG study. This study compares the Belgian situation with those in Germany and Holland, according to distance from the coast, according to winds, according to certain studies financed by the governments, which removes the financial weight of the operators. I put these conditions back in the Belgian regulatory situation and this gives me a much lower support value than has been the case so far. It is on this basis that we have had a comprehensive discussion with the last three parks about their financial clause and that we are positioning ourselves. The files will arrive at the government when they are mature and the government will decide. The first position is to say that we have European commitments that lead to obligations at federal level, obligations fulfilled in terms of renewable percentage by 2020 by the deployment of the eight parks in the North Sea. We are therefore in pursuit of this objective. But we are also trying to make sure that we adapt to reality, that entrepreneurs take a minimum of risks while having a stable view of their investment, so that the consumer can keep an affordable and decent bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u16	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u17	Minister, I'm glad there was a post-inquiry exchange because, after your answer, I still didn't know if there was a study or not. You are now telling us that a study has been submitted to the government, which has submitted it to the IKW. How did your firm position itself in relation to this study? Do I have to remind you that we need a coherent energy policy, particularly with regard to the problem of offshore wind? I would like to make it clear about the government's position. What coherent policy will emerge? We need a common project, built in a reasonable manner with the government as a whole. I feel like I have two different versions and two different policies. You yourself say, Madam Minister, that while you are working with CREG and the concessionaire operators, the Secretary of State for the North Sea, in his sphere of competence, is doing a legal study. All right! But when will we have something clear, common? It is necessary to avoid, as the comparison showed, the effects of windfalls, in particular on the problems of support. I rise from this inquiry with a divided vision of the government, that of the Minister of Energy and that of the Secretary of State for the North Sea, without a common policy. I do not trust the effects of a bounty or other elements that might be involved in this case. It is more than time to decide about these parks and whether or not to stop the three previous concessions. That was also one of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u18	Madam Secretary, the storage of our long-lived and highly radioactive nuclear waste is one of the biggest challenges now and in the future. NIRAS, who is responsible for the management of radioactive waste in Belgium, has for some time been calling for a sound political solution, in fact a political decision. NIRAS has been researching the geological disposal of high-level radioactive waste for some time now. On Tuesday 18 April, Le Soir reported that NIRAS did not like the government's proposals for the storage of nuclear waste at all. The newspaper is based on a letter from NIRAS to you and to your colleague, the Minister of Economy. NIRAS particularly opposes the procedure provided for by the Government in the long-term management of category B and category C radioactive waste. The procedure should be adjusted according to NIRAS. First, according to the institution, the choice should be made for informed and willing municipalities and only then should an investigation be started into the suitability of the ground layers to store nuclear waste. We have reservations about this. Madam Minister, what are your views on the reverse reasoning of NIRAS, in particular that we need to talk to the municipalities first, and that the geological investigation should only then take place? How do you see the timing of this dossier, now that NIRAS explicitly opposes the way the government operates? What's the next move? A solution must be found as soon as possible and, once again, a decision must be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u19	Mr President, Madam Minister, it was only on 17 March that you received a reply to your letter of 7 November 2016 asking ONDRAF to review its position as a national policy for nuclear waste B and C, so that it no longer includes a predefined choice of type of geological layer for the reception of such waste. This delay in reply was all the more surprising since the ONDRAF Board of Directors had taken a position at its meeting on 16 December. But come to the bottom. The ONDRAF asked you through this letter to explain and explain further the request for the adaptation of the national policy for Category B and C waste made by Minister Peeters and yourself. The ONDRAF also insisted on the urgency of setting the national policy of categories B and C. The ONDRAF Board of Directors informed you that it would address this issue again after having read the additional information you would provide. In our previous April 18 exchange, you announced to me that you would meet with Minister Peeters to follow up on this matter. You specified that you would then resume discussions with ONDRAF. On May 8, the Soir Mag published an article with an unequivocal title: "Nuclear waste: this is the total panade". The journalist confirmed that, together with your colleague Mr Peeters, you asked ONDRAF to resume the study at zero by first studying all the geological layers in Belgium that could house this highly radioactive waste, and then making contact with the municipalities that could host them. As I've already told you, I understand that. Minister, what is the official status of this case? Did you respond to the ONDRAF? When was your answer? What is its content? Could you give us a copy, as you did with the 7 November mail? Remember, you had given a copy to Parliament, believing that it was an important subject, which not only engages your government, but generations to come. I would like us to receive a copy of that letter as well. What are the next steps in the file? As I've already had the opportunity to tell you, I really feel that ONDRAF wants to burn the stages. If we objectively analyse the situation, we must consider that it would be premature to take a decision on this matter, including on the principle of geological storage. As you know, the Federal Agency has not closed the door to other forms of storage (it is still talking about deep drilling) or other options. We can also increasingly imagine subsurface storage, given the scientific developments that we can assume. Even with respect to a single site, the Federal Agency did not agree. As to the idea of the type of Belgian site chosen for the place of storage, the producers themselves questioned it. Anyway, it's the whole case that's being challenged. It should therefore be taken up much more upstream, in particular by defining what will happen to spent fuel, since the volume to be reserved in the storage place is not known. That is to say, minister, if I look forward to your answers and your clarifications on the follow-up to the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u20	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. You do it, moreover, always with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u21	Mr President, I shall immediately accept this wish. Ladies and gentlemen, despite what is in the press, I would first of all like to inform you that NIRAS does not follow any reverse reasoning. You submitted your question on 18 April, the date on which the press article on which you are based appeared. It is also the date of our previous question-and-answer session in the Business Committee. I have given an answer to Mr Nollet in reply to his question No. 17750. I reminded him of a number of elements of the letter addressed by Minister Peeters and myself to NIRAS on 7 November 2016. Firstly, there is a question for NIRAS to prepare a proposal for national policies B and C, on the principle of geological storage without indication of the host rock. So it's the host rock, the rock that hosts the... wait, I'm looking... yes, the host rock, that's right. Secondly, I referred to a question to NIRAS to integrate its proposal into a phased or step-by-step approach, with the emphasis on valorising the experience gained in the project of above-ground storage for low and intermediate waste. Thirdly, the letter stresses the importance of deciding on this issue. In its response letter of 15 March 2017, ONDRAF asked first to clarify and provide further reasons for this request for adaptation. Secondly, ONDRAF recalled its willingness to work on the principles successfully implemented since 1998 in the context of the Category A surface storage project file. ONDRAF insisted on the need to set national policy B and C. So there is a request for clarification but no paradigm change, you will agree. Mr Nollet, in relation to the comments you take from the article on the Soir.be website, no request was made by us to ONDRAF to resume the whole study at the beginning. I refer you to our study of 7 November 2016 on this subject. In committee on 18 April 2017, I was already replying that I was conducting a consultation with Minister Peeters and that interaction with ONDRAF would resume. Since then, multiple contacts have taken place, several of which have taken place in a constructive dynamic between the supervisory offices and ONDRAF; several others are already planned, on the one hand, with the aim of providing adequate clarification and, on the other hand, of moving forward and reaching a solution. There is therefore, at this stage, no reply letter to ONDRAF but constructive discussions, thus avoiding unnecessary ping-pong. I will not fail to provide you with a copy of the answers on the day they are drawn up. I would remind you once again - and you have already told me this - that such a decision, even the first one, on the national policy on radioactive waste B and C is not being taken lightly. Indeed, it refers to a process and a project that will extend over a period exceeding the term of a legislature, over several decades or even more. Finally, in your question you refer to the idea of surface storage, "subsurface" as you said. It's not deep! What does "subsurface" mean in terms of depth?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u22	As I have already had the opportunity to explain to you, this is one of the diagrams originally chosen for study at 20 or 30 meters depth. "Surface" means on the surface and "subsurface" means slightly below the surface, which means that every one hundred or two hundred years, the question rests with society. It is a way of not burying and forgetting waste and constantly having to rest the question, while taking account of scientific developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u23	It is not the principle that has been adopted. As you were referring to your idea of "subsurface" storage for radioactive waste B and C, I therefore draw your attention to the following two elements. In its opinion of 2 February 2011, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency stated in particular that: "For safety considerations, it is not recommended to store Category B and C waste on the surface for long periods of time", i.e. centuries, since you are targeting hundreds of years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u24	That's not accurate enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u25	Secondly, in recital 21, the European Directive 2011 Euratom also stated that "the storage of radioactive waste, including in the long term, is only an interim solution, which cannot be an alternative to storage, since storage is defined as the maintenance of radioactive waste in a facility with the intention of subsequent withdrawal". This can put us in agreement on the surface and the "subsurface" as you see fit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I agree with you on one point: it is not a matter in which a decision can be taken quickly. We must think very carefully about this. Madam Minister, this also means that we need to think very carefully about, for example, extending the lifespan of nuclear power stations. In this way, the waste, which is never charged, is piled up and the generations after us are squandered with waste that no one knows away. I understand from your reply that the decision to store the waste in clay layers is final. The sub-surface solution proposed by Mr Nollet is better monitored. If the waste is not completely covered, it is indeed easier to respond to new developments. In addition, any leaks can be detected immediately. I understand this solution has been classified for you. Is that right? We are definitely going for geological dumping? We are only looking at where that should be done. Did I get that correctly? [[Minister's agreement]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u27	Minister, I take note that you will send us the mail in due course. Discussions continue and take some time. I'd like to know if the AFCN is around the table or not? Is it just with the ONDRAF?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u28	I can't answer you. I'm going to ask my co-worker the question. A priori, I think it's between ONDRAF and the firm, the two functional firms, but I'm not sure. So, I'm gonna ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u29	I'll get the answer, as often.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u30	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u31	I have one more comment. In the previous studies, it has been said that the subsurface option has not been studied in depth – this is the case of saying it, without a bad set of words – in the matter, in the same way as the landfill option, as you advocate it. It is the only one that has been analysed. But, in its opinion of the time, in 2011, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency pointed out that it was in the order of possible not storage but deep drilling. But you don't mention it either. That is why I say that different options remain and must continue to be analysed in the same way as deep storage. I suppose you know that, at the turn of this issue, there are many other questions that will be asked at a later stage, including the question of aquifers that are affected by the possible location of the project. We'll talk about it much later. Belgium therefore has every interest in continuing to analyse in depth and in parallel other options than the one on which it clearly continues to poach itself with your agreement. Even if, from your point of view, you consider that the file is not yet complete, on the option, you consider that your choice is made, which seems to me to be a mistake in view of the developments that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u32	Mr. Chair, Minister, time is running out quickly, so it is high time to clearly establish the federal government's willingness, or not, to use federal funding for the conversion of L-gas to H-gas in order to fund a mechanism to assist end users of the network in the event of a need for replacement of facilities or adjustments. Minister, I've already talked to you about this. Could you, given the passing time and the reflection that – I imagine – is taking place, clarify the federal government's position on the financing of the conversion of L-gas to H-gas? Will you fund an end-user support mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u33	Mr President, since Mr Calomne's question is exactly the same, he will be able to read my answer in the Minutes. This is a very detailed answer, quite long because you will see that there is material. Mr President, at the end of 2012, following the depletion of the Slochteren field, the Dutch authorities, Gasunie and GasTerra, officially confirmed their intention to reduce L-gas exports from 2020 by not extending the current contracts. This means that by 2020, exports to Germany will be gradually reduced and, from 2024 onwards, this will also be the case for Belgium and France. The export of L gas to Belgium and France will be definitively halted in 2030. As a result of the increase in earthquakes in the Slochteren region, the Dutch government decided in January 2014 to change its plan and reduce exports as early as 2014. Since then, production has been reduced several times, in 2015 and 2017 by draft decisions that have been announced. This decision by the Dutch authorities not to extend export contracts implies that before 2030, 1.6 million connections in the three regions of Belgium will have to be converted to allow them to use H-gas or rich gas. These connections are located in the provinces of Antwerp, Limburg (west side), Flemish Brabant, Walloon Brabant, Liège (Hannut and Waremme), Namur, Hainaut and the entire Brussels-Capital Region. In particular, the cities of Antwerp and Brussels will have to be converted. The conversion will take place in phases during which the existing natural gas infrastructure will be used in a spirit of cost-optimization and to ensure security of gas supply. Synergrid (Federation of Transmission and Distribution System Operators for Gas and Electricity) has developed an indicative conversion plan, based on the use of the existing natural gas infrastructure, to ensure the availability of natural gas transmission and distribution capacity. In order for the conversion to proceed smoothly, taking into account the characteristics of the networks, the start-up will have to take place in 2018. It should be noted that the conversion process is not new. Such an operation has already taken place several times in the past: the first time in 1967, when the city gas was converted to natural gas; then, in 1978, following the arrival of H gas. The novelty lies in the distribution of the various competences in our country. The conversion of a low calorific gas to a high calorific gas is a complex process in which several actors have a role to play: energy suppliers, who buy gas on the market to supply their end-users; managers, who have to adapt their infrastructure to transport and distribute gas from the supplier to the end-user; end-users and device owners, who are responsible for the conformity of their installation to the type of gas delivered to them; and public authorities, which ensure that all actors intervene in concert in the interest of the end-user. As regards the impact on the final customer, it should be noted that the appliances sold in Belgium since 1978, the date of the first conversion to H gas - as I said - are compatible with both gases - both low and high. Although most end-customer installations are designed to burn two types of gas and to ensure that all appliances are compliant – no devices purchased outside Belgium or before 1978 – and that they are well tuned – because, depending on the category, adjustment may be necessary – a device-based control will have to be conducted. The supply pressure for residential end-users will have to be adjusted by the system operators. Residential end-users supplied with H-gas have a power supply pressure of 21 millibars, while those supplied with L-gas have a pressure of 25 millibars, to compensate for the lower calorific value. In your question, you indicate that the meters will have to be changed. I would point out that this information is inaccurate. The meter itself must not be changed. The change in the distribution pressure will be carried out by changing the cremator – the low pressure regulator regulator. There are two kinds, depending on the characteristics of the distribution network: the home-creter and the quarter-creter. In the first case, the system operator will need to have access to it in order to be able to adapt the service pressure. Given the complexity of the conversion operation and the number of stakeholders, a distinction must be made in the conversion costs between three things. The first consists of investment costs for the adaptation of transmission and distribution networks by conversion to H gas, including the adjustment of pressure which falls within the competence of the network operators under the supervision of the regulators. These fees are charged to end-users via their rates. These are distribution system operators. The cost associated with these adaptations was estimated by Synergrid to be around EUR 250 million, EUR 50 million for the transport network and EUR 200 million for distribution networks. With regard to the federal share of funding, the Fluxys transmission system operator, after submitting an updated tariff proposal to CREG, must pass on the cost of its intervention to end customers in its transport tariff, as provided for in the provisions of the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipeline. The second element is that the cost of controlling the equipment is borne by the owners of the equipment. Third, the costs of possible replacement of non-compatible devices are borne by the owners of the devices. Since there is no cadastre for end-user devices, a precise calculation of the cost of controlling and replacing end-user devices is difficult to achieve. An initial estimate made by Synergrid gives a budget of around 250 million euros, as I mentioned earlier. Federal and regional authorities are working with network managers and other stakeholders in the sector to develop a coordinated approach. Since device controls are required for 1.6 million connected customers, an information and communication campaign will be required. The end-user will need to be informed by four different actors: federal and regional authorities, suppliers and network managers. A general, concerted and coherent communication campaign aimed at end-users of gases affected by conversion will have to be carried out and will focus on the following topics. First, network conversion, conversion planning and setting of the cremator. Second, awareness of the current obligations of end-users with regard to the maintenance of gas appliances, thirdly compliance with standards and instruction manuals for installations and appliances. The most effective communication must certainly go through those who possess the data of consumption and invoicing. It is useful to contact the persons concerned as soon as possible so that they plan the passage of the technicians. Some people maintain their facilities on a regular basis. They must be allowed to combine these regular interviews with the control made necessary by the conversion operation. It is therefore essential that the communications of the various actors be coordinated and coherent. To this end, federal and regional authorities will work with system operators and suppliers to develop a communication approach and align the content of individual communications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Let me ask you a supplementary question. In your answer, which I will read carefully, you said that the replacement of the devices was the responsibility of the users. Do I have to understand that the user who has to modify his device, following conversion, will have to pay for the replacement himself?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u35	The owner of the device is responsible for the replacement and associated costs, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u36	So the government has already taken a deliberate decision at national level in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u37	No. As I have told you, the federal government works with regional authorities, system operators and regulators, if I am not mistaken. The idea is that everyone is responsible for his or her own objects. In most cases, the owner is the inhabitant who has installed or has a meter in his or her home. I explained to you that, for some time, the facilities could receive both types of gas. In accordance with the rule, if a marginal adjustment of the meter is required, the meter will be borne by the owner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for that explanation. I would like to know whether there has been a deliberation or whether a clear decision has been taken by the federal state and the regions (since you have spoken of collaboration) on the cost of replacing the devices. That seems interesting to me. You yourself talked about a start in 2018. It's pretty close.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u39	I repeat what I told you earlier: the costs associated with these adaptations were estimated by Synergid at around 250 million euros, i.e. 50 million euros for the transport network and 200 million euros for the distribution networks, which automatically allocates the competences. It's an evaluation. As for the decision itself, you really want a big decision. Actually, it was taken. It's not even us taking it. As you understand, it is the Netherlands that decides to speed up the reduction in gas transfer to us, which means that we have to change the whole. As you know, as I have already said on several occasions in this committee, there is work to be done and everyone will be responsible and will be financially responsible for the work that comes out of their competence. At the same time, the federal government will continue to provide appropriate communication to inform the public of the challenges of this conversion, which will take several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u40	I understand that the replacement of the devices will be the responsibility of the users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u41	Questions Nos 18899 and 18335 by Mr Flahaux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u42	Madam Minister, with the Flemish distribution system operators Eandis and Infrax 75 million euros would be parked that would have to be paid back to Flemish families and businesses. The EUR 75 million would come from an overcharged federal energy tax, a tax that families and companies would have to pay through the energy bill to finance, among other things, the operation of the CREG and the demolition of a nuclear research facility of the SCK. In Brussels and Wallonia too much was paid, but this overpaid energy tax was already paid back to families and businesses. However, this has not yet happened in Flanders. The Flemish regulator believes that an initiative by the CREG should be awaited. We are looking at the division of powers there. We are therefore waiting for an initiative from the CREG for reimbursement. Madam Minister, I was shocked when I heard that EUR 75 million was overpaid by the Flemish families and businesses, an amount that has still not been repaid. Madam Secretary, can you explain why the families paid too much for the federal energy tax? We absolutely must prevent this. The energy bill is already high. What measures will you take to ensure that in future there will be no excessive contribution to the federal energy tax? Why has the overpaid energy tax already been returned to the Walloon and Brussels families but not yet to the Flemish? That is a different point of view. The Flemish regulator says to wait for the CREG. They have not done so in Wallonia and Brussels. Who's right? Should there be waiting or not? If an initiative by the CREG is to be awaited, does this mean that the reimbursement in Brussels and Wallonia is legal or not? Has the CREG already taken steps to implement the reimbursement to the Flemish families and companies? Should the CREG not have indicated earlier that too much was paid by families and businesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u43	Madam Secretary, my question goes in the same direction, with a slightly different nuance. In the past too much federal energy tax has been collected by the distribution system operator. That was mainly because Elia has no insight into the decentralised production. In principle, the excess money collected should have been returned to the CREG each year so that the next year the federal energy tax could be reduced. That didn't happen. It is true that the distribution system operators in Brussels and Wallonia have already returned the excess amount collected to the users. However, the Flemish regulator did not do so because it was considered that this could not be done legally, as the money was the federal level. There would now be EUR 75 million in an account at Eandis and Infrax, but no one knows how legally correct this can be returned to families and businesses. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, there would be an agreement now on how this could be avoided in the future. Can you provide more information on the new method of calculation for the collection of the federal energy tax? Secondly, there must of course also be a solution to the balances of the past. It cannot be that the money is not returned in Flanders, whereas it is in Brussels and Wallonia. However, it seems that only a political agreement is still possible, since the money can no longer be deducted federally because Brussels and Wallonia have already returned it. In what way do you intend to resolve this, so that matters from the past can also be resolved? I think that everyone will agree with us, and I hope you too, that it is not possible to give back the money in Flanders, when it did in Brussels and Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the federal contribution is a supplement to the amount of electricity and natural gas consumed in Belgium to finance certain public service obligations and the costs of regulating final control of the electricity and natural gas markets. The CREG calculates and publishes the unit surcharges of the different components of the federal contribution to electricity and natural gas. The calculation basis shall take into account, on the one hand, the amounts necessary for the financing of those different funds and, on the other hand, the annual estimated amount of electricity passing through the transition network, the Elia network, with the exception of network losses. However, the collection of the federal contribution takes place at the level of the final customer on the basis of its annual consumption. As part of the electricity consumed comes from decentralised production of electricity injected directly onto the distribution networks, the distribution system operators therefore charge higher individual federal contributions than is normally required by the CREG. It applies the Royal Decree of 24 March 2003 on the federal contribution to calculate its amount and has so far not been able to take into account the decentralised production of electricity injected directly into the distribution networks. This situation is well known among the various market actors. In cooperation with regional regulators, the CREG aims to find a solution. On the one hand, it is intended to check the balance from the past, from 2008 to 2016, and to somehow refund the excess amount collected to consumers. On the other hand, the aim is to avoid any recurrence of such a situation in the future by amending the relevant legislation. The situation varies from Region to Region. In the Flemish Region, as you said, the CREG has always said that the federal contribution is one of its exclusive powers. Over-receivable amounts are available after DRMs in specific balances separated from the rest of the regional regulatory balances. For the period 2009 to 2016 they amount to some 75 million euros. In the Brussels-Capital Region, overpayments have always been spontaneously reassigned to a specific "federal assessment" account and reassigned directly the following year from their collection into the federal contribution according, in a way, to the principle that will be adopted when the new Royal Decree on the federal assessment comes into force. I'll come back later. The current balance amounts to more or less 83 000 euros. This shows that the overpayment in the Brussels Region has almost been reassigned. In the Walloon Region, the tariff methodology differs. The regulatory balances of federal contributions would have been reallocated in the tariffs, without specifying whether these amounts are due either to CREG or to the final consumer and whether they have been reallocated. The information received does not make it possible to establish the figures with the same rigour. However, CREG obtained the following information from ORES, one of the GRDs: "For Wallonia and the ORES network, for the period 2008 - 2014, a balance of EUR 20 million was set up. It has already been partly returned to the consumer: €3.4 million over the period 2015 - 2016 via the distribution tariffs. In 2017, 20% of the balances will be returned and, at an unchanged rate, 20% more will be returned." As mentioned above, CREG has thoroughly analysed these different situations with respect to federal contributions. In collaboration with regional regulators, a draft royal decree amending the Royal Decree of 24 March 2003 on the federal assessment has been drawn up. This project is currently being discussed in IKW. It is intended to correct the calculation of the federal contribution to take account, in the future, not only of network losses - this was already the case since 2003 - but also to include decentralized electricity injected into the distribution networks in the calculation. As regards the reallocation of past financial balances, the CREG has asked a law firm to analyse the complex situations, you have said, which currently exist, which vary from one Region to another and sometimes from one distribution system operator to another. You have understood this, since CREG has given information only about a Walloon distribution system operator, ORES. There are more. If a concrete solution is possible, it should be proposed by CREG in the coming weeks, once it has completed its work with the law firm which it has designated for the analysis of this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u45	Madam Minister, I understand that the CREG is thinking about how in future it can be avoided that families and businesses pay too much. It is, of course, very good that we are looking into this legally, but I am still not clear how and when we will pay back the 75 million that the Flemish families and companies have paid too much. What is needed in concrete terms? That's not clear to me. The President: Could you perhaps clarify your answer, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u46	The CREG has commissioned a legal study so that these balances, which were accumulated between 2008 and 2016, to the tune of 75 million at the level of the Flemish Region, can be surrendered and under what conditions. For the situation from 2018 onwards, a royal decree is under discussion so that it does not happen again. Production is increasingly decentralized and the federal contribution is being paid without calculating, on the basis of existing models, all that it can produce today. As far as the past is concerned, the idea is for CREG to make recommendations to be able to release these balances, according to our regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u47	I understand that there will be a draft for the future and that the analysis will be awaited for the past. Do you have a visual on the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u48	A few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u49	Thank you. We'll keep following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u50	I don't have the analysis yet. The CREG is working with this law firm on the subject. When she makes her recommendations, I will ask for an explanation of how she has thought and on what basis she has made them. Then I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The honourable Member was right to point out that it is a good thing that there is a KB, so that it can be avoided in the future. A number of lawyers will now examine how to solve it for Flanders, but we must not forget that we have already paid back in Wallonia and Brussels. In any case, a solution will have to be found. Even if the lawyers do not find a solution, they will have to find a way to return 75 million in Flanders. The return has already taken place in Brussels and Wallonia. I am certainly not a person who wants to play Community affairs, and I do not think that this is a Community dossier, but it is about honesty. If one repays it to one, one has to repay it to the other. I'm a little scared when you tell the lawyers to find a solution. I hope that this solution will be effective and equal to what has happened in the other two regions. The question arises as to whether the files of Wallonia and Brussels were refunded without legal advice. You said that the CREG only received information from one distribution system operator. I think it will take more than lawyers' advice to put this right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u52	Mrs Temmerman, this is indeed a very special situation that could have been reported by distribution system operators more quickly. It's a first thing. Secondly, I congratulate the Flemish regulator and the Flemish GRD who have decided to put this on an identified account which shows, to the nearest figure, what is the difference between the calculations that are made upstream and the calculations that should have been made downstream, since production is increasingly decentralized. But it is not that the money is lost elsewhere. In fact, elsewhere, it was immediately or at a particular pace handed over to each distribution system operator to the final producers. This is ultimately what must happen, and that is what we are going to strive for in the royal decree. But, it's a small wink, trust the lawyers who will find a solution that will allow the past and the future to be at an equal level, on the same basis of understanding and legal coherence. When I get this study, I'll obviously talk to you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u53	You have the last word, Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u54	Madam Secretary, I would like to put another case straight. I absolutely did not claim that one was paid for by another. What you said is correct, in particular that it should eventually return to the user, who is entitled to the refunds. It seems that this has happened in Wallonia and Brussels. You're a lawyer, not me. In my previous professional activities and also as ships, I have had a lot to do with lawyers. Well, if two lawyers are to be asked for a solution, a third lawyer is usually needed to find a solution. I hope, therefore, that the lawyers will find a solution, but allow me to say that if it is not found, you will have to do something else to return the 75 million to families and businesses in Flanders, who have paid too much, especially since it has already happened in Brussels and Wallonia. We will therefore await with great excitement the study that you will be presenting here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to point out that Mr Calvo turns his questions Nos. 18731, 19139 and 1926 into written questions. If I could get the answers to the exit, he'd be delighted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u56	We'll send them to him, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u57	I'll tell him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u58	We take note of all this, Mr Nollet, including the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u59	Madam Minister, on 18 April, I asked you about the state of preparation of the energy pact, which, it should be recalled, should, according to the government declaration, have been completed since 2015. It's almost 2018! We knew you were meeting for an interim review on March 15th. In your reply, you confirmed that the ministers were meeting on 26 April, at the end of the concertation committee to continue the work on the energy pact, i.e. the elaboration of the inter-federal vision – these are your own words – from which the concrete measures that will constitute this pact will flow. Can you give us the topo after this meeting? What are the first results and agreements? Can you inform us of what is stagnating and the forthcoming meetings planned and explain how Parliament can be involved in this work, beyond the hearings planned? I have a second part to my question, much more specific, on the date of the release of nuclear power in 2025 in the pact. Indeed, you informed us during our previous exchange that "none of the four ministers opened this question in the context of the work of the Pact". On this specific point – and I will regularly report with you on this issue – has the situation changed or have the positions of each other remained the same? When I say each other, I aim at both ministers and actors. Do you see this question in question or is there no question on the part of the ministers who remain well on this 2025 deadline? I'm asking you the same question about the actors. Finally, as regards the timetable, do you confirm that the common wish of the four ministers is to complete it by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u60	Mr President, Mr Nollet, as you say, I did meet my colleagues on 26 April 2017. I told you in committee the last time you asked me about it. The aim of this meeting, which took place in the wake of a consultation committee, was to agree on a working method to reach an energy pact together before the end of the year. What did we decide that day? We agreed to apply a phased approach methodology. We chose, as a first step, to organize a targeted consultation of the stakeholders. We had also made a press release that day to explain our work in phases. To this end, a detailed questionnaire, in which cabinets and ministers from the four levels of authority participated, was approved by the four ministers and sent in early May to some 130 stakeholders identified by the four of us. This list includes both producers and suppliers, system operators, aggregators, large consumers, consumer protection associations, members of the construction sector, the automotive sector, the oil sector, environmental organisations, trade unions, employers' organisations, research institutes, universities and public actors, as this list is not exhaustive. However, it allows you to identify the target panel. As you can see, this is a very broad consultation, which is not limited to the energy stakeholders themselves. The selected stakeholders received a letter on May 3, 2017 and have until June 30, 2017 to respond to this consultation. The responses will then be evaluated and a proposal for text will be presented. Who will implement this evaluation and presentation? A CONCERE working group has been set up at the level of this administration, which brings together the country's four energy administrations and the ministers concerned. Its purpose is the energy pact at CONCERE level. This group has been set up precisely for this purpose. It will be required to submit by September 8, 2017 a text containing options and recommendations, which will be the dynamic condensation of all responses that will have been made by the interviewees until June 30th. An internal methodology is being negotiated in order to be able to work effectively within the CONCERE working group. To this end, the necessary templates are being developed. As of 8 September, the Ministers will evaluate the text, make the necessary arbitrations and submit a proposal for text to their respective governments for agreement. As a result, a citizen consultation will be organised through a specially designed website. The aim is for a broad public to share their comments on the draft energy pact. Subsequently, CONCERE will synthesize the reactions to this consultation by 1 December 2017 and adapt the text of the pact on the basis of them. This should enable the federal and regional governments to reach a broadly supported and coordinated energy pact by the end of the year through the Concerted Committee. All of this work will continue to be based on the activities of the four working groups. As I have already told you, you will remember that there were four working groups per level. I will, of course, regularly inform Parliament of the progress of this work, either on the basis of your questions or on the basis of exchanges. With respect to your specific question, I can confirm that the federal government is sticking to the existing schedule and that my regional colleagues have not asked any questions (with the exception of one) about this in our exchanges between ministers. A question was therefore asked. I remembered it and asked for it. You will remember that the Flemish Region has taken over the production. Each level of authority could ask questions to inform the discussion and interview of the stakeholders on federal and regional matters. Question 26 on production is: "Does nuclear energy still have a place in the energy mix in Belgium? How do you see that? In addition, how do you see the future of the CCGT (closed-cycle steam plants) plants? This is the only question containing the word "nuclear".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. So it's about 130 holders. As for the parliament, it will be just informed. Can we already be informed of all the questions that have been asked about these 130 holders, in addition to the question 26 to which you referred? We will then be able to follow the subjects on which they were interviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u62	I see no problem in having them sent to you, but I will ask my colleagues because this is a joint work. But I don't think they'll object to your request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u63	Minister Miriam Maes, outgoing Chair of the Board of Directors of Elias, whose professionalism is widely recognized, has withdrawn in extremis her candidacy for a new term. The benchmark shareholder, Publi-T, had in fact planned to vote against this appointment at a general meeting, although he had approved it in the governance committee and on the board of directors of Elias. Mrs Maes said in the press that many governance challenges are still far from being resolved within Elia and that loopholes remain, including personal interests and political games with clear Community motivations. We talk a lot about the drifts of the political world on the Brussels side and on the Walloon side. Here we are in another dimension, as I can read in the published interviews. Jacques de Smet, an independent administrator, also ransacked Publi-T's behaviour, saying that he was challenged by the low political maneuvers that pollute the governance of society. Minister, were you aware of these abuses? What have you undertaken since then to put an end to it? Has this matter, given its seriousness, been referred to the government, to Kern or to another ministerial meeting, as a newspaper seems to indicate? What does it show? Unfortunately, this does not seem to be Elia's only concern for governance. Thus, for example, Mr. Donck, an independent director, doesn't seem to really be since the company he manages acquired Pauwels Consulting, of which Elia is one of the main customers. It has also been reported that two resignations have been recorded in recent months on the board of Publi-T, the reference shareholder of Elia, and that a certain S. Moreau is standing on one of the vacant positions. Some are already referring to the prospect of a mega-fusion Publi-T/Publigaz, where the same S. Moreau is called upon to replace Mr. P. Heyse, who resigned as administrator. Is this not contrary to what emerges from the work of the Publifin Committee of Inquiry, of which I am sure you know as well as I do the main conclusions? Isn't Elia, like Publifin, escaping the power of the communes? I say it more seriously than could suggest my game on the names of those concerned. What is your view of the situation, as well as of these hypotheses, which have been mentioned more and more clearly? Do you intend to act before a Publifin case breaks out? Does CREG investigate this matter? What, for example, is the legality of the composition of the board of directors? What initiatives have you taken or, I open the door, do you intend to take to meet the many governance challenges, which are obviously not only located in Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. J.-M. Nollet. I shall now pass the floor to Mr de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u65	Mr. President, you can also shorten it to "MDL". I'm questioning MCM on the same subject. It's a joke, Minister! I wouldn't allow myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u66	Not NKM!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u67	Mr President, you know that in another government there is MMS! [[laughter]] Madam Minister, I will not repeat everything that my colleague Nollet has already mentioned. According to the press, the issue of the chairmanship of the board of directors of the electricity transmission system operator, Elia, was addressed in Kern. Its former president has denounced governance issues and no longer wishes to exercise a director's mandate. If it were confirmed that this matter was indeed dealt with in Kern or in the Council of Ministers, the matter would then reach a level other than that of the board of directors of the transmission system operator. Madam Minister, could you confirm that the matter has been dealt with in Kern or within the government, as mentioned in a press article? What is the federal government's position on this issue as the subject has been opened? What do you know about the governance issues raised by the former President, especially since it is up to me that the CREG would have opened up information or raised the problem of the legality of the composition of the board of directors? These are the questions I wanted to add to those of my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u68	Mr President, thank you. With respect to Ms. Maes' withdrawal from her position as administrator, you will recall that initially it was agreed that she would hold the position for three years and that another director would succeed her for three years, Mr. Geert Versnick. That was what was originally agreed upon. Then, as you read in the press (very precisely, since some journalists were particularly well informed about the sequence of this general meeting which took place on 16 May at Elia's), there were tensions and movements; indeed, after an agreement on a recommendation which was going to take place during the general meeting and which was to say that Mrs Maes and another administrator could continue as directors on the board of directors (there was no longer a question of the presidency, but at first there was a question that both would be renewed as administrators for a term of six years), there were movements - which took place under special conditions and which would deserve a thorough examination - coming from Publi-T. Indeed, after agreeing with the board of directors of Elias to propose these recommendations to the general meeting, the shareholder no longer agreed and changed his mind within a relatively short time. The same shareholder therefore said one thing and its opposite in a short time. I really regret that Ms. Maes withdrew her candidacy as a director under pressure from these movements because, to my knowledge – I have known her since I took office – she has really taken on her role as Chair of the Board of Directors. But of course, I also recognize that every shareholder is free to give his trust to whom he wishes. So I won't teach you anything if I tell you that we're dealing with a publicly traded company that has a board of directors and is obviously independent. I have, of course, been aware of the tensions between some members of the board of directors. There are obviously people on this board who don't like each other and who tell each other about it, which may not be deeply inconvenient but which hinders the smooth running of the work, and I am putting myself in the position of the president who had to pick up this moving coupler and who, in addition, pays the cost of all this. As has been said by some wise journalists, she has not been thanked for all the efforts she has made to enable this board of directors to make the right decisions in relation to the purpose of the company. With regard to tensions on an independent board of directors, I have no way of putting an end to them. Absolutely no way. With regard to the problems of independence that you raise in the head of certain directors, as you know, it falls within the competence of CREG, which also grants Elia a licence under certain conditions, to verify the independence of those who are part of this half of the board of directors and who are declared independent directors. As a result of this general meeting, CREG asked a series of questions which showed, in its head, a concern about what was happening and a desire to ensure that the law was respected with truly independent administrators, in the event that they were no longer, and with a gender balance to be respected in the light of the law. The CREG is therefore in fact under consideration. The situation itself was only mentioned in informal DAB discussions and no decision was taken. It is political information in the broad sense because at some point we see something in the press. This is the same situation for all members of the government, of course, since it is a board of directors that reacts to itself, according to its own rules, and that does not allow us to have a way, apart from the CREG of course, to intervene in the process and governance. As far as the supposed aims of a certain S. Moreau are concerned, you surprise me, Mr. Nollet. I have gone through all the press articles and I have not seen anything in this regard. I do not see very well what this would do in the internal affairs of a benchmark shareholder, provided that this benchmark shareholder is indeed the local representative, in Elia, of the world of electricity. Publi-T, we know its configuration. I think you're a little fast and a little lean. I'd hire you to be more careful. You know as well as I do the recommendations or in any case the work leading to recommendations, of the Regional Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Publifin since you have been heard. So you know very well all about this. I would keep myself, but you do what you want, to make parallels that a priori, do not have to be. In any case, if there are parallels to make, they can only be made in relation to Publi-T which, I believe, has 48.5% shareholding in Elia. I'm not quite sure of my decimal point figure. So, the Publi-T and Publigaz merger, I can tell you it's the Loch Ness monster. We've heard about it for a very long time and it has, in my opinion, nothing to do with the current discussions, which are rather personal positions of power on the board of directors. As a result, the president had a difficult life and decided to withdraw her candidacy as an administrator for six years; in my opinion, she was disgusted with the situation and the fact that she did not even receive a thank you for the work done. For the moment, the CREG is analysing things and, in the interests of gender equality, on the one hand, and the regularity of decisions taken by the Board of Directors, on the other hand, Mrs Maes will undoubtedly be obliged to remain on a temporary basis on this board until the end of the year, the time, if I have understood correctly, for decisions to be taken in interaction with the CREG, which has the imperium in relation to the control of this institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u69	Minister, I wanted to do a little humor because it sometimes feels good, but I won't. You're talking about tensions when I'm talking about drifts. I have stated this in my question and I keep it. You did not answer my question about the independent administrator that relates to one of these abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u70	I told you it was not within my jurisdiction. So it's not for me to answer, it's for the CREG. I invite you to read the law again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u71	Madam Minister, I regret that in your press review on Tuesday, May 16, you did not have the article entitled "Stéphane Moreau prepares his entry to the board of directors of Publigaz". I'm reading a passage from this article.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u72	Which newspaper is it, Mr. Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u73	This is the newspaper L'Echo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u74	I have a full press review here, but this article is not included.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u75	I'm just saying I didn't make it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u76	I'm not saying you invented it. I'm just giving you my vision of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u77	I believe you by word of mouth. If I may, I will read you an excerpt from this article because it is to the latter that I am referring to. But since you were in possession of my question, you could have bought it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u78	I looked for it, but I didn't find it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u79	I read the excerpt from this article: "This self-designation of Stéphane Moreau on the board of Publigaz risks, in any case, to further energize an already very burning question, that of the structure of the Nethys group. The real question is whether we are going to take over the group by the municipalities and the provinces. Today, those who hold capital are not the ones who decide. There is a whole set-up to be done by determining who can be commissioned, who answers to whom, which intermediate floors can be surprised", analyses a fine connoisseur of the file. This is what I said in my question: here too, we see that the communes are dispossessed of their role. I think, Madam Minister, that your answer, which is to say "that's not my job", is a little too much the answer that was initially heard in Wallonia. I invite you to quickly review this line and intervene where necessary. You're telling me it was mentioned in DAB. All right! I understand that this is not the subject of an official point in the government. There is no immediate decision to take, except that these drifts, I invite you not to think that they exist only at the regional level. With the elements I've given you, you've got something to look at again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u80	I would like to point out that Publi-T is not an organization that works in federal jurisdiction. They are shareholders of Elia. So it's not the same thing. As a result, they have representation on the board of directors of Elia. You just read it to me here - and I listened to what you read - that it is within them that decisions like this must be debated. They also have a board of directors. This level is the regional level. I do not want to get rid of any liability but, according to my analysis, and I have still looked at that when I saw your question, this is not the level at which we need to intervene. That doesn't mean I don't care! Don't make me say what I didn't say. On the contrary, I am trying to be very attentive but this is not the level at which we need to intervene. It is the regional level, it seems to me, which is concerned unless I am proved otherwise by one text or the other. A priori, I did a search. For the inside of the board of directors of Elia, which is obviously in terms of competence, in its work and in its situation, at the federal level, there, indeed, the law provides that the CREG exercises control - what it does - over what it considers not to be adequate in terms of the legislative and regulatory framework. For the time being, to my knowledge, the CREG has obviously asked a number of important questions following this general meeting. As far as I am aware, without being exhaustive, this concerned the real independence of certain members of the board of directors and the gender balance on the board of directors and the maintenance of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u81	Mr Nollet, I give you the floor for a brief reply, but I ask everyone to be concise. I am very flexible, but we have moved far away from the rigour of the Rules of Procedure regarding the time of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u82	Mr President, I am well aware of that. I quoted an excerpt because the minister seemed to question the very existence of the article. Minister, I hear you say that things are happening in a structure below Elia. But it's exactly the same logic. In Namur, we also saw that the cascade of structures was a problem. You say here that the CREG is watching. You have to get involved yourself in this monitoring or in this dialogue with CREG, because some dimensions are not taken into account in your response. I hope they will be from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u83	I'll have to follow the work of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u84	Mr President, I would like to talk about the order of business: this long debate also affects the replies. I intend to be brief. For me, Elia is a fundamental operator, and we need stability in transport networks. I think we need to worry about this. I have another question to ask the minister about this. I'm talking about the ownership at Elia's. Can you imagine asking them to reform these participations globally or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u85	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u86	Are you in line with Elia's shareholding?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u87	But, it's an independent company and I don't have to interfere with the configuration of a company's shareholding!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u88	All right! But we still talk about it in Kern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u89	No, I don't! We're not talking to Kern, Mr. de Lamotte. You didn't listen well. We talked about it in DAB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u90	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u91	No. You're making a very problematic shift of sense. The DAB is the meeting of the Chiefs of Staff. That's why I want to be absolutely precise with you. If these people want to talk about something, they do. I know we talked about it, but no decision was made. A priori, nothing can come, as you know, neither to the government nor to Kern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u92	We'll come back to the rest of the investigation that the CREG is trying to investigate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u93	I will avoid the usual formula and I will say that the point is closed!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u94	Mr President, Madam Minister, as we know, the European Commission is investigating the legality of your order of 13 January 2017. The Commission suspects that Belgium has indirectly granted State aid. We know that the FPS Economy, for example, had given a notice to enter into a strategic reserve for only one year, but you went over it by setting a three-year term. DG Competition has therefore conducted various hearings, including that of CREG. Minister, do you confirm that you sent a letter to CREG complaining that you were not informed of this hearing? Why such a reaction? What is the content of this letter? Can you, as usual, give us a copy? Do you point in particular to the reticence expressed by the CREG with regard to the device, when you feel that the CREG should have the same word as yours? Do you think the CREG has failed in loyalty? Above all, what sense should be given to your reaction to the necessary independence of the regulator? More generally, do you consider it necessary to be systematically informed of the procedures and convocations to which CREG is subjected? What is your request and/or requirement in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u95	Mr President, my colleague, what has been reported in La Libre's article deserves a few nuances. It should be noted that the mechanism of the strategic reserve, which was developed under the previous legislature, has not been notified by my predecessor. As we have done for nuclear power, as we have done for offshore power, as we have done for degression, as we have done for a series of dossiers, some of which take their roots in the previous Parliament, we are notifying the European Commission. In fact, when you say this is the decree of January 13, 2017, that's not it! It is the very principle of the existence in our legislative framework of a strategic reserve that is the subject of an exchange with the European Commission. We are often in contact with the European Commission. My Chief of Staff is responsible for dealing with DG Competition. On the occasion of one of these exchanges, we learn that someone from CREG went motu proprio to talk to DG Competition about various topics. It was the German strategic reserve and on that occasion we started talking about...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u96	What do Latin words mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u97	"Motu proprio" means "of his own movement".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u98	Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u99	Please. It is a professional distortion, because this expression is often used by lawyers – like "sui generis". So my Chief of Staff learns that someone from CREG went, on his own initiative, to talk, on the occasion of an exchange on the German strategic reserve, as well as to do, about the Belgian strategic reserve. It is clear that my chief of staff looked with two round eyes and wondered how that was possible. We didn't know anything about it. Therefore, on 29 May, I sent the following letter to the President of CREG, Ms Marie-Pierre Fauconnier: "Madam the President, in preparation for the notification of the Belgian mechanism (so not the royal decree which provides for three years) of strategic reserve to the European Commission, my cabinet recently had an interview with the services of DG Competition. On that occasion, we learned that the CREG had met with the service a few days earlier and would have expressed reservations regarding, among other things, the reservation of 900 MW. Neither I nor the members of my cabinet have been informed of this. Would you like to tell me in what context this meeting took place and the position taken by CREG at this meeting? With regard to the country's energy policy and its defence to European bodies, I should not remind you of the importance of acting together. The independence that surrounds the work of your Commission does not preclude any loyalty to the federal government. Waiting to read you, etc." We sent this letter to CREG, which, of course, is conducting a thorough investigation – not an investigation in the sense that you could use the term – and is trying to find out what the person concerned is and what their motivations are. In fact, the CREG can only express itself outwards collegially. In this case, however, it is one of its members, and not the entire CREG. I think you are telling me that DG Competition has organised different hearings. It's not exactly an audition. This is indeed not an investigation, but a purely informal context, where we deal with cases, including this one – which we are preparing to notify – since we are completing the work that should have been carried out from the beginning. We then learn this fact. As far as I am concerned, when I notify a case to the European Commission, I always ensure that I involve stakeholders, including CREG if it wishes. I would have gone with CREG for the strategic reserve file anyway. I have done the same in this case. I was therefore very surprised that I had not been informed of this approach. The Commission's Rules of Procedure provide that meetings generally involve all parties preparing the notification dossier. The CREG is obviously one of them. I just gave you the background to the letter I sent. The CREG confirmed to me that the Director of the Directorate of Technical Contract Operations had taken the initiative in a personal capacity, without being mandated by the Steering Committee of the CREG. The CREG is an independent body. I expect her to have the same voice as mine in a Belgian federal context where, legally, when she speaks, she speaks collegially after a meeting and a decision of the Management Committee. In this case, it is associated with the preparation of the notification on the strategic reserve. I would remind you in my letter that I believe it is normal for her to show a minimum of loyalty by informing me and DG Energy of her contacts with the European Commission. For the rest, CREG is in regular contact with the European Commission on other issues, including the strategic reserve in Germany. I'm not interfering in this. And I would like to make it clear, Mr. Chairman, because I think it is important, as I have already said in other circles, that I have no difficulty with the President of the CREG. I have an extremely loyal collaboration and work with her. Clearly, there are things she needs to look at on her steering committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u100	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will not say that it was concise, but at least it was complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u101	Mr President, it is difficult to be concise because it is complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u102	It's not a reproach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u103	Madam Minister, I think it is clear that there may be something that Mrs Fauconnier has to deal with internally. I'll take note of that. I'm not asking you about that part. I am surprised by the other part of your answer. You say that, since the CREG owes you loyalty, it must warn you that it is invited, no matter what the term, to a European body when it comes to Belgian policy. It must not only warn you of the fact but also warn you of the content, the subject, what has been said and what will be said. Finally, I also noted, since you withdrew the denial that your collaborators proposed to you, that the word should be the same as yours. Where is the independence of CREG in this kind of situation then?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u104	In your questions, the last thing is very precisely useful, but for everything else, I will show you that it is not correct to analyze the preceding elements as you do. Indeed, CREG is an independent body and I do not expect it to always have the same word as mine. I can discuss it with her, if that's what you're worried about. I don't think there's a problem. But, and this is where you are not right, in a context in which she knows, since she is working with us on this, that we are notifying the strategic reserve mechanism, where, of course, she will rightly accompany me to the Competition DG, in that context, there can be no words, not necessarily contradictory or different, but in any case made at a time when I am not informed of them. There's no such thing. There is a minimum of loyalty in the institutions that must be done. I once again insist heavily on the fact that it is legislation that goes in this direction and that the CREG, an independent body of course, expresses itself on any subject it intends to indaguer with whomever it wants. I don't have to interfere with this. But, in a context of notification where she is associated, as an institutional collaborator, despite her independence – so we are working together – there is, at some point, someone in this institution who does not play the institutional game that we must play together, because with the president, we work in this context. It's obvious that you don't have to make sense slips and get me to say what I didn't say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u106	No, no! I know you well and I intend to clarify my remarks: associated with this process, in a loyalty of institutional work in relation to the country in which we work the CREG and I, we go together after having discussed between us what to say, with in the head of the CREG if she hears it, a different position. But I point out that the position thus given, in total contradiction with the principle of collegiality of expression of the CREG, poses difficulties and that is that I remind you in my letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u107	The stakes are extremely important. You recognize that the CREG is independent but you recognize a higher principle: that of loyalty! Loyalty obliges the CREG – I note it – in the case of a Belgian dossier, first, to inform you when it is invited and convened by the European Commission, second, to tell you what will be discussed and what has been discussed and, thirdly, to align yourself with your speech. I am sorry but, in my opinion, this does not mean independence!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u108	Mr Nollet, don't distort my word! Be careful with your words. I fully agree that, in the context of the strategic reserve dossier, if the CREG, collegially, wants to tell the Belgian State that this is not the way it sees things, I see no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u109	To the Commission? Not to the Belgian State!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u110	It can also tell the Belgian State to the Commission, I have no problem with that! I say it and repeat it so that it remains well engraved in the minds: let there be a free-shooter who, in the back of his institution, says something else, that is not right! That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u111	I admit that this is quite another thing and I have separated the debates well. I distinguished the person from the institution. I was just talking about the institution. As far as I am concerned, I believe that her independence allows her to go there and say something other than what you want her to say. I would even say that she has to say it if she thinks she has to say it and she doesn't have to keep you informed and align with your line.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u112	I don't agree! I have to make it clear that there is a "notifications" working group in which everyone gives their point of view. That's what's wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u113	We're in a question-answer-replicate game. We heard your point of view and that of Mr. Nollet! I give the last word to Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u114	Mr President, I think I have been relatively brief. There is no possible slippage of meaning when there is a record. Parliament's services are working excellently and we will have the report back this evening. What has been said does not have to be interpreted! Everyone will read the report!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u115	Minister, as you know, gas safety standards are a federal jurisdiction. On April 7, the Minister of Energy of Brussels sent you a letter to draw your attention to the fact that the current legislation requires only one control of the compliance of domestic gas installations with the standards in force, only at the time of connection to the distribution network. This letter also formally asked you to study the possibility of strengthening this control obligation, if necessary by basing it on the one in force for the control of internal electrical installations. Minister, have you responded to this letter? Are you going to strengthen or not the obligation to control domestic gas installations? If so, when and how?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u116	Dear colleague, a draft reply to Ms Fremault's letter dated April 7, 2017 is still under review in my strategic cell. My regional colleague's letter calls for reflection and caution. In this letter, two accidents occurred in the Brussels Region, two fatal tragedies in Saint-Gilles and Berchem-Sainte-Agathe. At the time of her writing, the causes of these tragedies still need to be established. Without delay, Minister Fremault is asking for stronger controls by comparing with what is being done in electricity. My regional colleague's letter calls for reflection and caution for the following reasons. First of all, there is certainly a judicial investigation. These are the conclusions that will allow us to see what is the division of responsibilities and, possibly, what regulation, whether existing or not, would have avoided the problem. The parallel with what is being done in electricity is not adequate with the safety objective pursued. In the case of electricity, a check is provided for the sale of the building. The occurrence of this event, which is the sale of the building, does not provide sufficient periodicity in the context of verification of gas installations. There is therefore no reason to say that a check, at the time of the last sale of the buildings involved in the accidents at Saint-Gilles and Berchem-Sainte-Agathe, would have prevented these tragedies. In addition, the legal basis for the regulation of electricity, the general regulation on RGIE electrical installations, is the Law of 1925 on the distribution of electric energy. Its gas equivalent is the Act of 24 December 1970 on safety measures to be taken during the establishment and operation of gas distribution facilities. On this basis, a regulation requires a verification by the distribution system operator of the compliance of individual installations during the connection. The distribution and obligation imposed on DRM in this area have been regionalized. In view of the above and very conscious of the need to monitor the conformity of inland gas installations, I plan to entrust my administration with analysing the legal possibilities, taking scrupulously into account the division of powers, in order to strengthen the control obligations and to impose periodic verification of inland natural gas installations. As a matter of priority, it is therefore necessary to determine who is competent and, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to designate the closest entity to act as directly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u117	Minister, I would like to thank you and be curious about the state of the strategic cell's thinking in this regard. This subject is a glaring one. You mentioned two accidents. Personally, I lived on Rue Léopold in Liège in 2010. An intensification of controls is therefore necessary. Of course, I understand that it is not decided that way or in any way. I will remain attentive and ask you again about this when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-13-54-commissie-ic686x.u118	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have exhausted the agenda this afternoon. I can therefore take it that the meeting has been adjourned.
