ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u1	You know, Minister, that parking policy in many cities, especially in the major cities, is in the hands of parking guards and that, in addition, in all municipalities, GAS officials carry out very useful tasks in the public domain. However, I regularly get signals that they are threatened or beaten by citizens when they are doing their jobs. When they file a complaint at the police station, it is sometimes minimized. At best, the complaint is recorded, but the case is often dismissed by the public prosecutor. As a result, both the GAS officials and the parking guards do not feel supported because they do not listen to their concerns and their complaints are not taken seriously, while they see that aggression against other colleagues, such as officials and police officers in the Criminal Code, is referred to as "aggravating circumstances'. Minister, I have two questions. At present, nothing has been set out for the new categories of GAS officials and parking guards. That's a pretty recent phenomenon. Everything used to be done by the police officer. We've created a number of functions to relieve the police. With regard to them, the description of aggravating circumstances does not exist. Do you think it would be desirable for GAS officials and parking guards to be added to the professions in which aggravating circumstances can be granted in case of beatings and injuries? If so, are you prepared to incorporate a change in this direction into the law? What further action can be taken to minimise the dismissal of such complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u2	Mrs Lanjri, as you know, the Committee of Experts on the Reform of the Criminal Code has begun to rewrite the second book of the Criminal Code on Incriminating Persons. In order to ensure a more accurate, simple and coherent arsenal of criminal penalties and penalties, the incriminals are vetted, tested against case-law and case-law and weighed on criminality and penalties. The proliferation of aggravating circumstances that can lead to a higher level of punishment is also being assessed. In the second half of this year, we expect a detailed proposal of new book 2, so that the whole new penal code can be discussed by the government and Parliament. I would like to stress that facts of violence and threats by the public prosecutors are taken seriously in any case and are a priority for prosecution. The problem that often arises with such facts relates to the burden of proof and the identification of the offender. If the unsub remains unknown or no conclusive evidence can be provided of aggression or threat in the absence of witnesses, word against word, then of course the public prosecutor cannot prosecute efficiently. The presumption of innocence prevails in that case. That is also why many city guards, parking guards and gas fixers are being sent out with two for their own safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u3	I understand that you will look into what corrections are needed in the investigation of the incriminals. In mid-2017 you will launch new proposals. That's a good thing. Parquets take violence seriously. Yet we see in the facts that it remains a problem. I do not understand that word against word enough and that there must be proof. Parking guards and GAS officials are sworn officials. If they have sufficient evidence and the data of the person aggressively treating them, such behaviour should not lead to a dismissal. May I ask that, in that case, the public prosecutor should make that a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u4	Mr Minister, as mayor of the municipality of Hoeilaart, I sometimes find that someone who has been arrested with sufficient evidence, for example after committing a burglary, must be transferred from my municipality to Brussels to be brought before the investigating judge, and that the investigating judge there will then let the suspect go after questioning, to frustration of the police officers who are the first to be involved and have spent a great deal of time dealing with the case. I am giving a recent example from my congregation, Minister. After a break-in, the police patrol arrived at the scene at night to conduct a trace investigation, a file in which no less than 120 police hours were stabbed; the suspect was caught and arraigned, but was freed twelve hours later. Hence the frustration with the police. Their sigh that whoever they apprehend is at once at liberty, reaches me, as mayor and head of the police. I find that very difficult. It is noteworthy that at the beginning of the judicial year 2016, the prosecutor of our arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde made a plea in the press for a court of our own before our judicial arrondissement. The parquet of Halle-Vilvoorde is very active. It's a pretty strict prosecution policy. Communication with the police zones is proceeding very well. I am therefore pleased that the division of the judicial district has led to a private court, which can pay sufficient attention to crime in the Flemish border around Brussels. Unfortunately, I have to say that sometimes the court in Brussels does not follow. The priorities of some judges in Brussels who have to judge arrest and punishment are not always on the Flemish edge. Minister, you understand that it is not pleasant that I should regard these practices as mayor, all the more so because we are investing heavily in staff and in instruments to reduce crime. The problem in Brussels seems to me to be a problem of priorities and understanding with some judges. Another reason could be that the judges in Brussels are confronted with other forms of criminal offences, which are attracting their full attention and creating a great workload. That is why I believe that our region, our judicial district, should have its own court. My question is very simple. What is your view on the often suggested installation of a court of your own for Halle-Vilvoorde? Which probes and counters do you see?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u5	Mr Vandenput, on 28 September last year I answered two questions by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mrs Pas on the same subject. In my view, there have been no new elements since then, and I shall therefore repeat briefly what I said at the time. Thanks to the vertical split, the Halle-Vilvoorde parish can conduct its own investigation and prosecution policy, given the particular problems of the Brussels border. The Halle-Vilvoorde District Court has brought three times more cases before the court. The Brussels court is obliged to deal with these cases. This is a serious and positive development, which has also proved possible with a court in Brussels. A different logic was used in the court and today there is a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking court in Brussels, with no change in territorial jurisdiction. This has the advantage that the Dutch-speaking court in Brussels has and retains sufficient power, which is also in the interest of the Dutch-speaking cases in Brussels. The majority of cases before the court of first instance are cases dealt with by a civil court or by the juvenile and family courts. It is therefore necessary to ask whether the Dutch-speaking judge in Brussels and Flemish-Brabant is better served with the transfer to a court in Asse. The same question needs to be asked as to the effect of a possible relocation of the Dutch labour court and court of commerce from Brussels. As I said at the time, I am very attentive to the suggestions and I think very deeply, but at the moment a change does not seem advisable to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for taking back the answers you gave on 28 September. I welcome your attention to the problem, and I would like to check regularly whether it is not advisable to set up a fully-fledged court in our district. I think we're the only arrondissement without a courthouse. On the basis of the principle of equality, I think we need to look into it more closely. Thank you for your answer and your attention to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 15518 will be converted into a written question. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u8	Mr President, Minister, our country signed the Convention on the Status of stateless persons on 28 September 1954 and was approved by law on 12 May 1960. That Convention defines a stateless person as a person who is not considered a national by any State under its law. A stateless person therefore has no nationality. Statelessness must, of course, be avoided as much as possible. That's what the New York Treaty says. In our country, proceedings are conducted through the court of first instance. This person is authorised to recognise stateless persons. The applicant shall be able to demonstrate that he is not of any nationality. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that this process should be speeded up and made more appropriate by centralising it at the level of the judicial arrondissement. This would lead to a shorter deadline for processing. Now it often takes years. In addition, centralisation at the level of the judicial district would also improve the specialisation of the magistrates concerned. If necessary, they may continue to seek advice from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Against this, agreements were made, included in the coalition agreement. My questions are as follows. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of this proposal? What's happened? What are the remaining obstacles? When do you think you're gonna be around with that? From when can applications be submitted in a different way, namely at the level of the judicial district? I hope that we will be able to introduce this before the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, the government agreement does indeed pay attention to the recognition of the status of statelessness. Moreover, Article 16 of the Convention of 28 September 1954 on that status guarantees the right of free and simple access to the courts in the State in which the person concerned is habitually resident and the right to enjoy the same treatment in those courts as nationals of that State. The draft law simplifying, harmonising, computerising and modernising provisions of civil law and of civil procedural law, as well as of notary law, and laying down various provisions on justice, the so-called Potpourri V bill, which has just been submitted to your Chamber, ensures that the objectives of the coalition agreement in this area, and of the Treaty of 1954, are integrated into the provisions of the Civil Code. The Justice Commission will look into this in the next few weeks. In concrete terms, the draft law reorganises the substantive and territorial rules of jurisdiction governing this matter, thus increasing the specialisation of certain judges in this area and allowing applications to be dealt with within a reasonable period of time. In this respect, disputes relating to nationality and the status of statelessness will henceforth be entrusted to the family court. This regrouping of powers in the hands of family judges will speed up the judicial procedure concerning stateless persons, as it will no longer be necessary to tackle different courts to settle family disputes. However, in accordance with the new Article 632a of the Code of Justice, only the family courts sitting at the seat of the Court of Appeal will be able to settle disputes concerning the recognition of the status of stateless persons. The purpose of this new provision is to make these courts specialized jurisdictions in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u10	Mr Minister, this passage from the coalition agreement, which may only cover a few lines, can make a huge difference for certain people if they can obtain the status of stateless persons, because they can then apply for nationality. I am very pleased that this arrangement was included in the bill you sent to the Chamber. I will follow this up further and I hope that this will be possible before the summer. Or do you provide for a certain period of time to give the courts the necessary time to work all this out? I'll find out later what timing will be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 15570 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u12	Mr President, Minister, these three questions seem to me to relate to very separate issues: the judicial follow-up to the Kazakhgate case, the judicial follow-up to the Holding Communal case and the Interpol account number. That is why I am surprised that they were joined. It seems to me quite special. That said, before starting with the first, I wish you a very good year 2017. I promise to ask you a lot more questions. Minister, just before the Christmas holidays, the newspapers L'Echo and Le Soir relayed echoes from the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office according to which the judicial information concerning the role of our former colleague and Senator Armand De Decker in the so-called Kazakhgate case was almost complete and that the deputy in charge of the case would clearly plead for a prosecution of the former President of the Senate. According to L'Echo, the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels would consider not conducting an investigation and therefore not appointing an investigating judge in this particularly complex case and with multiple doors, if I judge the articles appearing almost every week on this subject. This has not failed to provoke reactions in the judicial – and also political – world, in particular relayed by the newspaper La Libre Belgique of this 27 December. More than one magistrate is astonished at this option of not appointing an investigating judge, while the Attorney-General's Office is cited in the case file, while others than Mr. De Decker is also involved, while further investigative duties may be useful and it is important to deal with the prosecution and defence case, depending on the parties' requests for additional duties. Minister, what are the rules that generally govern the appointment or not of an investigating judge in a case? Is it not appropriate – according to the opinion expressed by a magistrate in this article of La Libre Belgique – to provide for an investigating judge in complex cases – what this case seems to me to be – and to limit the use of information to simple cases, in which the evidence is established? Can you confirm the intention of the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels not to appoint an investigating judge in this case? What would justify such an option? Have the risks of this option been measured by the King's attorney? Are you prepared, if any, to use your right to a positive injunction? This will, as the Prime Minister has committed himself before Parliament, put all means at the service of the judicial truth and avoid the suffocation of this matter? I continue with my other questions, which do not have anything to do with this first subject, it seems to me. Mr. Minister of Justice, I would also like to ask you about the lack of prosecution in the Communal Holding file. On 25 November, it was reported that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, which was conducting the judicial investigation into the liquidation of Holding Communal – the famous Dexia case – concluded that there was no criminal offence. According to the newspaper De Tijd, the management of the holding does raise questions, but the prosecutor's office would not have found any fraudulent intention. It is now a question of what follow-up the board of council will grant to this rebuttal. In any event, this light management will have cost the Belgian municipalities and all taxpayers a great deal. Can you provide us with the findings of the Public Prosecutor's Office following the investigation into the liquidation of Holding Communal? What justifies the proposal not to proceed? What is the potential follow-up to this position of the Public Prosecutor's Office and what is the judicial timetable? When should the council chamber position itself on the subject? My next question concerns Interpol's bank. The Royal Decree on Belgium's share of the International Criminal Police Organization Interpol for 2016 was published in the Monitor on 30 December 2016. The Belgian contribution is EUR 748 991. What was not my surprise, however, to discover that this amount had been paid into an account opened at HSBC bank. You are aware that this bank is threatened in France by one of the most important cases of tax fraud in recent years. Last November, the French National Financial Prosecutor's Office requested a trial for the holding of the British banking giant in the large-scale tax fraud case against him. If the investigating judges follow the requisitions of the prosecution, HSBC Holding, one of the first banks in Europe with a net profit of $13.52 billion in 2015, will soon be tried before the Paris Correctional Court for "money laundering of tax fraud" and "courteous criminality". As a reminder, the case began with the delivery to the French authorities at the end of 2008 of files stolen by the bank's former French computerist, Hervé Falciani. This act had led to several investigations in Europe, notably in Spain and Belgium. I have also had the opportunity to question the Minister of Finance on this matter. This case also experienced a dramatic turnaround in 2015 with Operation SwissLeaks, a series of revelations from a global network of newspapers that accused HSBC of actively approaching rich depositors and of having transited some 180 billion euros belonging to its customers between November 2006 and March 2007 on accounts in Switzerland, to enable them to escape tax. In its missions, Interpol has an important role to play in combating financial crime. On its website, the organisation states that Interpol's main financial crime initiatives include money laundering. In this context, and in a consistent manner, it would probably be appropriate for the Commission to pay particular attention to the choice of its banking operators. Hence my questions: do you not, with me, find it problematic that the main police cooperation body in Europe has as its banking operator a very regularly cited institution in cases of money laundering and tax fraud, namely HSBC? What are the criteria used by Interpol to choose its banking operator? Are there standards of good repute and ethics? Has a blacklist of banks involved in tax fraud or money laundering been established? What about the other international organisations in which Belgium is involved, such as Eurojust? Could Belgium, through its representatives in Interpol, put this issue on the table and suggest to Interpol managers the choice of a more coherent banking operator with its own objectives in the fight against financial crime? If you answer the first questions you don't know, you can at least make a commitment to try to help change things, minister. I'm sorry to have asked you three questions in a row on such different subjects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u13	Mr Gilkinet, let me first point out that, in the context of the oral questions in the Committee on Justice, I can only transmit information to a very small extent, especially since these are usually still ongoing investigations. In view of the commission of inquiry recently set up with regard to the file called "Kazakhgate", it seems to me much better suited for a more in-depth answer to all your questions, since it allows for direct hearing and questioning of the representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office. To answer your questions, the College of Attorneys General provided me with the following information: "The so-called 'Kazakhgate' case was the subject of judicial information conducted by the King's Prosecutor. In accordance with article 28bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation, the King's Prosecutor has ensured the legality of the evidence and the loyalty with which it is gathered. In addition, no act of coercion or relating to individual freedoms and rights, falling within the exclusive competence of the investigating judge, was necessary. There was therefore no need to request an investigating judge." With regard to the independence and impartiality of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the College refers to the in-depth analysis given in the mercurial order issued by the Prosecutor General of Brussels on 1 September 2015. "The analysis of the Constitution, the legislation, the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Court, as well as the opinions of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, leads to the conclusion that the Public Prosecutor's Office has carried out its legal duties to investigate and prosecute offences independently, fairly, on behalf of the public and in the interests of society". With regard to your questions concerning HSBC and Holding Communal, it should be noted that these cases are, of course, independent of Kazakhgate and are also the subject of an investigation. As far as your question No 15601 is concerned, because I think number 15624 is the same, the College of Attorneys General tells me that the investigation of the HSBC case is under way. Eurojust is used in international judicial cooperation. For your questions concerning Interpol and Eurojust, I will bring them to the attention of our representatives at the governing bodies of these organisations so that they can collect, as far as possible, the requested clarifications. Finally, with regard to your question No. 15630, the Public Prosecutor's Office informs me that a final motion for dismissal on grounds of insufficient charges against the suspects was drafted on behalf of the King's Prosecutor on 27 October. The case was settled at the hearing of the Board of Counsel on 21 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u14	Minister, this is not very serious. You refer me to the committee of inquiry, but it cannot, of course, interfere with the judicial investigation. I don't see myself in the committee of inquiry questioning the prosecutor's office about the legal action taken. We must be careful – and it is in the law – not to encroach on this investigation. That is why I would like to ask you in the Committee on Justice about this. And on this controversy, which is really important from a current and societal point of view, you refer me to general principles and the only response of the College of Attorneys General. We will indeed see what the decision is in this case. I don't want to prejudge the judicial truth. My only concern since the beginning of this case, and I have asked you many times upstream on the subject, is that all the means at the judicial level be used to obtain the truth, whatever it may be, and I must worry, in this case, about the non-designation of an investigating judge. I am not the only one to do so; several magistrates have spoken about it. As for the fact that HSBC is Interpol's banking operator, I hope the information has called you as much as I have. I note with satisfaction that, at the very least, you have brought this issue to the attention of our representatives in Interpol and I hope that they will not only be able to gather information but will have an influence on the future. I would therefore like to give you an appointment, perhaps not for the next Justice Committee, but within a month or two to get some more detailed information on the changes that you have been able to push through our representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u15	Questions No 15598 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 15731 by Mr Philippe Blanchart are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u16	Mr President, Minister, my question is about SECAL and has two parts. First of all, I come to the Committee on the Monitoring of Maintenance Claims. This commission was set up last year to monitor the amounts of maintenance claims due during the revision of the law on the calculation of these claims in 2009. I'd like to know what was going on with his work. Is there already information on the harmonization and differences between judgements and estimates of receivables payable to families in the same situation? In the event of differences, the law provides for the commission to draw up a tool for use by all the judges concerned. The second subject of my question concerns the access of SECAL to data concerning judgments and judgments in respect of maintenance claims. According to the information you have given in our committee, SECAL is not part of the organs of justice and therefore does not automatically have access to the database of judgments and judgments. Your response announced provisions to give him access, but it does not have a binding order for possible relief actions against a maintenance debtor. The problem will therefore not be solved on the merits by a copy of the judgement. Minister, what is the status of this issue of access to the data bank? What legislative changes may be necessary, despite the reform of the Court of Justice, in order to enable electronic reporting of data to SECAL? Finally, for the time being, a person applying to SECAL for unpaid debts must provide a certified copy of the judgment. Will the fact that the judgment is sent electronically to the lawyer replace this need for the persons concerned to request a copy of the judgment again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, the committee to which you refer is the Committee on Maintenance Contributions provided for in Article 1322 of the Judicial Code. According to the Royal Decree of 7 February 2014 laying down the composition and operation of this Commission, it is composed not only of judges and representative family organisations, but also of various actors involved in the proceedings relating to maintenance claims such as the Bar Association and the Notariat. It also includes representatives of the Minister of Justice, the Minister responsible for family policy and the Flemish, French and German-speaking Communities. In order to ensure its independence, the Commission is chaired by a magistrate. It met for the first time in January 2016. According to article 1322 of the Judicial Code, this Commission is responsible for making recommendations, on the one hand, on the assessment of the costs resulting from the maintenance contributions and, on the other, on the determination of the contributions of each parent. The Food Contributions Commission met five times in 2016. So she's already started her substantive work. It must assess the recommendations it has made each year and provide advice to the Minister of Justice and the Ministers responsible for families before January 31 of the year following the previous calendar year. This notice must be sent to the federal legislative chambers together with the above-mentioned ministers' comments. While the Commission's main task is to draw up recommendations, it cannot, however, substitute for judges in their decisions or monitor their content. Since the Commission's work is only just beginning, it is premature to assess its effects on the harmonisation of court decisions on the calculation of maintenance claims. In addition, regarding your questions about the Justice Digital Data Bank, at present the deadlines for data integration cannot be specified, but I can assure you that every effort is being made to deploy VAJA as soon as possible. The VAJA database exists. First instance judgements are assigned to them. However, the family court is not yet connected to it. We expect this to be in order for the end of the year as well as for the other courts. The creation of the legal basis and the royal decree setting out the procedures for operation and access are in preparation. My services are in constant contact with SECAL's administrator, Mr Boelaert, as part of a better collection and recovery of monetary fines and non-tax recovery, including the collection of maintenance claims.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u18	It is true that this evaluation committee does not have the task of replacing the judges. She can't replace it. Nevertheless, its mission is to observe the various judgments and calculations that have taken place and to verify whether there is harmonisation in the decisions. After a year of meetings, receiving feedback from information on this subject would be the least of the things. This is not about the impact of the law on decisions, but about compliance with decisions to determine whether or not it will justify the implementation of a tool. It was in this spirit that this was put in place at the time of the passage of the law. I am not entirely satisfied with your answer, minister. One more year for SECAL to have automatic access to judgments and for the family court to be integrated into the data bank seems to me to be particularly long. In view of the number of cases and the difficulties of recovery, it seems to me that this case must be dealt with as a matter of urgency in order to preserve SECAL and respect for the right to payment of maintenance claims.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u19	Mr President, on 23 December, your colleague and successor in charge of finance, Mr. Van Overtveldt, has published a circular on the VAT rate applicable to second line benefits in the framework of legal aid and to bailiffs performing pro deo services in the framework of legal aid. This rate will increase from 0 to 21% on April 1, 2017. This decision may be announced following judicial views on the matter. However, it would have been possible to defend the maintenance of a VAT of 0 %, in the name of the social character of pro deo interventions. This decision mainly raises questions as to how the federal government intends to allow the most fragile of us to have access to legal advice through the pro deo. It is necessary to be able to adjust the legal aid budget accordingly, otherwise access to justice for all is likely to be even more complicated and difficult than today. Minister, can you tell me if you were informed of the Minister of Finance's decision before the issuance of the December 23 circular? Did he play solo or did he inform you of his intentions? Do you know whether he tried, on behalf of the government, to defend the Belgian vision of this exemption from VAT on social grounds? I repeat that this is a possibility under European law. Do you confirm his legal reading of the case as to the eligibility of pro deo benefits to VAT or do you dispute it? What will be the consequences of this application of VAT in terms of aid to low-income litigants? Does this mean that less pro deo aid will be granted if the overall envelope remains the same? Or do you intend to increase the legal aid budget as a result of the application of VAT, to allow for the same volume of intervention as before? Have compensatory measures been or will they be negotiated with your Finance and Budget colleagues? Since it is a complementary resource for the state, perhaps it could re-introduce your budget? How will the pro deo budget evolve in the future? You are aware that many of the litigants, as well as the lawyers involved, are concerned about the future of legal aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u20	Minister, we have recently learned of the existence of a circular that imposes a rate of 21% VAT on the services of pro deo lawyers as well as on the new moderator ticket that your government has put in place. This measure, which is far from our approval, is no less than a taxation on poverty. And it is in addition to the many measures already taken by your government that make justice ever more inaccessible to the most disadvantaged citizens. By increasing the cost of access to justice, the government does not reduce the number of conflicts, it only increases those that will be settled by the law of the strongest and the arbitrariness. This circular would follow the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 21 July. That would be a partial interpretation of the judgment. This is based on a presumption that those who do not have sufficient resources are entitled to adequate legal aid, which guarantees them effective access to justice. But no one can ignore that today, resorting to justice has become a luxury, even for a large part of the middle class. The government therefore has no choice but to compensate its own tax by increasing the already insufficient budget for legal aid. Any other solution would constitute a serious breach of access to justice by a government that has already increased registry fees and reduced remedies for citizens. The decision to apply VAT also to the moderator ticket is even more critical. On the one hand, because the moderator ticket is already a tax in itself exclusively charged to the most disadvantaged – VAT would ultimately be a second tax on a first tax. And, on the other hand, because the European judgment does not require or relate to this moderator ticket, which did not exist on the day of publication of the judgment. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Since the budget for second-line legal aid is a closed envelope, the decision of the VAT administration implies a 21 % reduction in the income of lawyers providing legal aid. Did the government therefore plan to increase the legal aid envelope by 21 per cent as compensation? What will be the budgetary impact of this measure? What impact do you think this new tax on access to justice will have for the most disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u21	Mr President, gentlemen, VAT is neutral in itself. This means that lawyers will not lose part of their income because VAT is added to their revenue and is not deducted from it. It is the State that will have to pay VAT to itself, Justice will pay the lawyers, who will have to pay it back to the Treasury. The introduction of VAT will therefore have no effect on the volume of pro deo benefits. I was informed on 21 December of VAT Decision No ET131.005 of 12 December 2016. The ratio legis of this decision has not been communicated to me, but I will contact my colleague in Finance with whom this point still needs to be agreed. I note that the Constitutional Court still has to determine its views on the basis of the European Court of Justice's recent reply to this question for a preliminary ruling. As you know, I am making every effort to improve access to justice and I am working on two tracks: the reforms of second-line legal aid and the establishment of a second-line legal aid fund and legal protection insurance, to which I would like to combine a tax incentive to ensure that a quality product is payable through the pooling of the insurance instrument for a large part of the population, a larger part than that which can rely on pro deo legal aid. Indeed, the budget of the pro deo is treated as a closed envelope, which is why I am trying to supplement it with the institution of a pro deo fund. It is also for this reason that I do the most every year to keep the point above 25 euros by negotiating additional means or by reallocation at the end of the year's budget closing. I therefore have to ask for a 21% increase in the VAT budget in the forthcoming budget negotiations, an increase which the state must pay itself. I therefore do not expect any particular difficulties, since it is budgetaryly neutral at the overall level of the public authorities. Since this is precisely a white operation, it is preferable to await the ruling of the Constitutional Court, it is too early to reach a definitive conclusion on the application of VAT to pro deo services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u22	Minister, I note that you have been brought before the fact that your colleague, the Minister of Finance, has done so. You were informed of this decision, as were all citizens, on 21 December. It is at least a lack of courtesy, but I would call it sabotage. You're saying you contacted each other to try to clear this up. I do not know if he would accept that you, within your jurisdiction in the area of justice, make decisions that have an impact on his Department of Finance. At the very least, this indicates a bad atmosphere within government and, above all, a way of working that is not effective, beyond being totally unfair. Indeed, if you want to reassure us about the state budget or the revenues of lawyers, I have to tell you that this is not really what we are worried about. What worries us is the ability of the least fortunate to have access to justice through the pro deo. And until you get that VAT refund from the Department of Finance to the Justice FPS, which is not automatic, we'll have a hole in the budget. You say the state pays the state, but the FPS Justice pays the FPS Finance. We will have less intervention capacity for those who need it. I hear you are going to try to negotiate an increase in your competitive envelope in terms of budgetary adjustment. I also hear that we should have waited for the final decision of the Constitutional Court before deciding. I think the Minister of Finance has played you a very bad trick and you must not let it happen as you do. You're way too placid compared to that pin-foot you're going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. We feel like we're undressing Peter to dress Paul. You explain it yourself: the State will pay the VAT it collects from legal aid. It's a nonsense total. So I can join what has just been said. Don't let it happen because it's about access to justice. If 21 per cent of the closed budget is planned, there will be less to be distributed among lawyers who try to allow access to justice for the entire population, including the most disadvantaged part of the population. So, as soon as the next budgetary conclave comes, we will have to find a solution that will allow us to return to a certain neutrality. This does not mean that the enclosed envelope is sufficient; it will have to be increased. But even as you fight, as you explain, to try to feed it, you are already leaving with a planed envelope of 21%. So you have to make up for it all the more before you can consider an increase. Something's wrong. We will also strongly challenge the Minister of Finance. On the tracks you mention, such as second-line legal aid, second-line fund, etc., we will wait to see how things will materialize. I hope they can be done quickly. With regard to legal protection insurance with a tax incentive, let us remember that the very nature of tax incentives is still to benefit first of all from the highest deciles. This "fiscal-centric" approach should not reinforce the initial inequality. I'm not sure that this can meet the needs of the most impoverished audience. As I was telling you, we're going to have to find solutions from the next conclave. I find it strange that you are staying at the same sign as us and facing the fait accompli of an administrative circular. Either the VAT administration acted on its own initiative – which raises questions within the FPS Finance on the relationship between political and administrative spheres – or the Minister of Finance was aware and validated this circular. This poses another, even more political, problem within the government. You will agree that there is also room for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u24	Mr. Gautier Calomne will not be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u25	Mr.President, Minister, in March 2014, your predecessor had entered into an agreement with independent doctors working in prisons. On the one hand, it concerned a renegotiation of the budget for their care and, on the other hand, the payment of fees at a monthly rate and without interruption during the year. However, it appears that, as of January 2, 2017, the fees for the September, October, November and December 2016 benefits had not yet been paid to these physicians. According to the spokesperson for the association that federates these prison doctors, as well as dentists or physiotherapists, the FPS Justice provided no explanation as to the reasons for these delays. We are aware of the recurrent nature of these delays in the payment by the judiciary of persons who, in particular, work in prisons and thus play an essential role in the support of prisoners. This function is necessary in the short term in terms of the prison environment and the ability to maintain a certain order, but above all in order to help prisoners reintegrate into society. Therefore, if the claimants are not paid, they cannot carry out quality work beyond all the economic consequences that this may entail. Minister, how do you explain these months of delay? Is this a budgetary problem? How many practitioners are involved? How much is due to them in total? When will the situation be regularized? How do you intend to ensure that your predecessor's 2014 commitments are strictly respected in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u26	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, it is expected that the payment of the fees of independent care providers will take place within a maximum of 60 days of receipt of the invoice: 30 days for verification, 30 days for payment. The amounts due for September and October are EUR 1 160 353.59 and cover 317 beneficiaries. They were paid out yesterday and were dependent on the year-end budget closing operation. For the months of November and December, the statutory deadlines have not yet been exceeded. Therefore, no delay can be reported at this stage. We are aware that this situation remains problematic from time to time. However, it should not be linked to poor budget planning, but to under-funding of the medical service. We are making every effort to find a structural solution that will avoid further temporary difficulties of this kind.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u27	Minister, I am pleased that the situation has been resolved half since my question was tabled, in any case for the last two months. I would not say that there is a cause-and-effect relationship; it would be an immodest one. In any case, I really invite you to closely monitor this type of payment. As I have said, the role of these people in prisons is essential if we are to defend an approach that is not only repressive, but also human, and that is based on the ability of those who are temporarily detained to become normal citizens again in real life and with integral rights in society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 15718 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u29	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to express my best wishes for this new year. Minister, I have a question about the possibility of receiving authorisation when maintenance money for children is not paid. Since the Act of 19 March 2010, which entered into force on 1 August 2010, about six and a half years ago, the creditor is entitled to receive a reception authorisation once he has not received maintenance money for at least two months in the last year. I would like to hear the extent to which this system is being applied. I tried to obtain figures through a written question, but the answer was that those figures are apparently not available in the BGC application, whatever that may be. I have asked my own question with the departments in my province and the figures are in the written record of this oral question. The conclusion is that this possibility is only applied to a limited extent. A Registry even noted that the reception authorisation was less common since the DAVO was created. However, I do not think DAVO would be competition for the reception authorisation. After all, it is primarily the parent and not the State that has to pay the maintenance money for the child, and to this end every possible way must be used. Minister, I have four questions. Is it true that there is no way to get official figures? Can you confirm that Article 203ter of the Civil Code, which regulates reception authorisation, is only applied to a limited extent? What is your response to the possible competition between the reception authorisation and the DAVO? Is there a solution to this problem? In your view, can it be mentioned in the judgments of the possibility of authorisation to receive any kind of relief? Today, in all judgments on maintenance money, the existence of the DAVO is recapitulated, but apparently after six and a half years of being generally introduced, it is still too little known.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I too wish you well. With regard to the question of figures on the number of reception authorizations under Article 203ter of the Civil Code and the suggestion to include an additional entry in the judgments, I refer to my answer to Parliament's question No. 15487 by representative of Goedele Uyttersprot. My administration does not have any figures that indicate how often a person who has not received maintenance contributions for two months will go to court again, on the basis of Article 203ter of the Civil Code, to ask for permission to receive the sum of money due. These figures are not included in the publication of the activity statistics of the College of the courts and courts. Moreover, as you yourself pointed out, the figures cannot be calculated on the basis of the data from the application used at the Registrys of the family courts. It is worth considering the suggestion to include an additional entry in the judgment, which points out to the right-holders their ability to obtain such an authorisation. However, it is primarily up to a judge to judge and settle disputes. It cannot be the intention of a judgment always to inform the parties of their rights and obligations. This is primarily the task of legal assistance. It is therefore important to lead those concerned first and foremost to legal assistance such as courts, lawyers and so on. The purpose of the reference to the Maintenance Claims Office in judgments establishing maintenance contributions for children is also to lead the person concerned to a form of legal assistance. This reference was just made by the Law of 19 March 2010 to raise the profile of the DAVO and to inform creditors from the outset where they can be found if problems arise in the payment of maintenance contributions, provided that the conditions for recourse to DAVO's intervention are met. The same Act of 19 March 2010 further extended the authorisation of receipt provided for in Article 203ter and introduced an additional mandatory authorisation of receipt if the creditor fails to pay within 12 months for two consecutive periods or not. Therefore, before the Law of 19 March 2010, the Alimentary Claims Service, already established in 2003, should not be considered as a competition for the measure provided for in Article 203ter of the Civil Code. The DAVO is an administrative department of the FPS Finance which is responsible for the recovery of maintenance payments, whereby the DAVO itself will take the place of the creditor to recover and recover the maintenance claim. Under certain conditions, they also grant advances on maintenance due. Article 203ter of the Civil Code gives the creditor himself, through the family court, a judicial authorisation to collect the maintenance fees due. The DAVO has just been set up to act in place of the creditor and to facilitate recovery. The fact that the objective is the same does not necessarily mean that the measures should be considered competitive, but rather as two different options available to creditors and on which they can rely in the event of non-payment of the maintenance money in view of their needs. In addition, an appeal to the DAVO's recovery also means that there is a matter for the court. Finally, it is true that in the first instance it is the parent and not the government that has to pay the maintenance money, but that concerns the demand for the advances and not the recovery by the DAVO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and specifically for saying that an additional mention is worth considering. I agree that the DAVO is necessary, but I note in the field that more often people go to the DAVO rather than looking at the facts first. If the parent has to pay maintenance fees, one could ask for an authorization to receive them and for the Registry to send a letter to the employer, who then pays the maintenance fees promptly each month. All in all, it is still about the fact that maintenance money extraordinary costs are very difficult to pay and in many cases the cause of a lot of misery and conflicts and also poverty in families that are no longer together. Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u32	Mr President, Minister, this question also builds on a written question with your written answer, to which I refer. I was told that when an inmate entered prison there was no longer any question of belief and that therefore the figures I asked for in relation to food regimes related to religious beliefs could not be given. In this respect, only Article 74 (2) of the Basic Law applies, which states that the prisoner must make known to the chaplain or consultant concerned his intention to participate in the service of worship or related activities. On the website of the FPS Justice the following official explanation can be read: Within the limits of the reasonable, the prison also takes into account aspects of the beliefs that relate to the diet." A personal search at a prison in my region did give us figures. On a population of 102 inmates, 40 inmates received an adapted menu. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Why should no figures be available, while a personal survey shows that the data can easily be extracted from the prison's computer system? What is the budget for meals a day in our prisons today? Is there a distinction between a regular meal and an adapted menu regarding the cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u33	I confirm my earlier answer to your question of 7 October 2016, namely that Article 74, § 1 of the Law of 12 January 2005 gives the inmate the right, without limitation and according to his personal choice, to confess his beliefs or philosophical beliefs and to participate in the related activities. This means that he can address himself without limitation to representatives of any belief or philosophical belief. The fact that prisoners are addressed to different representatives is therefore a reality. The legislator wanted to pay particular attention to the confidential relationship between the prisoner and the person in charge of pastoral or philosophical guidance. The guarantee of this confidentiality relationship was translated, inter alia, into the lifting of the form on which he was required to express his belief, in accordance with Article 16 of the General Rules of Procedure of the Prisons. From now on, the prisoner had to call on a chaplain or lay consultant by letter under a closed cover and no longer through the intervention of the director. To this end, prisons were instructed to place mailboxes in places accessible to inmates so that they could exchange confidential correspondence following the rules laid down by the supervisory committees. These teachings were delivered to prisons in November 2005 following the entry into force of the provisions relating to religion and philosophy of the basic law. The prison thus does not record the link that can exist between the faith or philosophical belief of the prisoner and his food regime. The data you received may refer to the number of prisoners who have opted for a particular food regime, assuming a one-to-one relationship between one and the other. However, this statement cannot be supported for the reasons set out above. Secondly, the penitentiary establishments are allocated an envelope for the feeding of the detainees on the basis of the average number of prisoners present in the establishment and the available budget. That's an annual envelope. This means that establishments can fill in the use of this budget, i.e. the layout of the menus, within its limits. In 2016, the envelope was calculated at a daily food price of 3.5 euros per inmate per day. For 2017, the envelope is calculated at a food price of 3.7 euros per inmate per day. The accounting system only reflects the total cost of feeding the prisoners. Many foods are purchased in bulk and used within various food regimes. Others are specifically intended for one regime or another. It is obvious that products purchased in large volumes are usually cheaper than products purchased in smaller quantities or specifically intended for a medical prescription diet. The variety of possible dietary regimens is very large. The imposition of standards per food regime would therefore be unworkable. Prisons are therefore expected to comply with the budgetary standard at establishment level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u35	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, your question No. 15722 deals with the possibility for DAVO to lodge a family abandonment complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u36	Mr President, that question may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u37	Minister, I have one final question about the circulars issued by the King's Prosecutor and the Attorney General of Liège concerning the use of coercion by police officers. These circulars have recently caused mercilessness among them. According to my information, these circulars make recommendations as to the measures to be taken and the procedure to be followed when a staff member uses physical force, auxiliary means or weapons during an intervention, resulting in the death, endangerment or serious injury of a person. For police officers, the recommendations contained in the circulars were likely to limit their rights, particularly with regard to hearings. It seems difficult to accept that a police officer who has used force or coercion during an intervention and who is heard in an investigation opened on that occasion, has fewer rights or rights limited to those provided for in the Salduz procedure or the assistance of a lawyer. You have already answered some questions on the same subject at the committee meeting on 14 December. Without going back to what has already been said, I would like to learn about the development of the COL project of the College of Prosecutors General and the ongoing discussions between magistrates and representatives of police officers. Following the consultation between the police unions and the prosecutors in Liège, what clarifications and/or adaptations have been obtained regarding the procedure to be followed in the event of the use of coercion by a police officer and in the event of a third party incident by the police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u38	Mr Goffin, the College of Attorneys General has indicated that the circular of the Prosecutor of the King of Liège on the use of coercion by police services in the performance of their duties is obsolete as a result of the new legislation on Salduz+. Every police officer who is involved in a record of the use of coercion that has resulted in serious injuries has the right to consult a lawyer before being heard. His rights are the same as for any other citizen. With regard to your second question on the circular of the Attorney General of Liège of 13 April 2015 concerning the use of coercion by police officers, the purpose of this circular is to establish certain principles that the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office will have to apply, when acts of violence have been committed by police officers and when they have resulted in lethal or potentially lethal consequences for the persons who have been subjected to them. In particular, it is requested to open a full, impartial and thorough investigation to determine whether the use of force was justified or not, in order to be able to respond to a possible procedure before the European Court of Human Rights and to avoid the passage of time permitting the establishment of a doubt. Such a procedure independent of conventional criminal procedure may take place a few years after the facts, hence the importance of recording immediately what has happened. The authority of Liège is the only one to have drawn up such a circular. Thirdly, a draft circular of the College of Prosecutors General is under discussion and was the subject of meetings on 6 December in Brussels and 7 December in Liège, with representatives of the College. They met with the trade unions to listen to their demands and the fears of the police. This circular will be national and will have the effect of standardizing the procedures to be followed. The judiciary and I have the best consideration for the police and for the work they do. We are working together to find solutions that respect the law and the rights of both police officers and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic559x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the clarifications that would reassure the police, in any case in the region of Liège.
