ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u2	I should also like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure provide for two minutes for each question and one minute for the reply. The first in line is Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday you accepted the outstretched hand of our group to work together on the investment plan, for which I thank you. I believe that there is another issue on which you should listen a little more often to the opposition, or even more often to the European Commission, or to signals from society, namely the budget. The budget was once the flagship of this government, priority number one. Today, in fact, it is the weak spot and is the subject of an almost annual critical report and a reprimand from the European Commission. There is an ever-recurring phenomenon, namely the search for culprits. Government members and members of the majority try to lay down responsibilities elsewhere. Last year it was the fault of the Treasury officials whose methods were wrong. Today we know better. The Court of Auditors has made it clear that the problem lies with Johan Van Overtveldt, with his actions and with the fact that he makes too few officials available. This year there was another variant. CD&V mentioned the southern European mentality that had crept into this government. According to them, it is the fault of the Walloons and the Brusselsers. This is the excuse of a majority with four parties of which three Flemish parties. Prime Minister, I would like to call for an end to this and not always go elsewhere to look for responsibilities. If at the moment there is a tax on making excuses, our budget would look completely different. This budget result is the result of your policy. A policy that is far too lenient and too empathetic for fraudsters, for tax evasion, one has apparently not read the Paradise Papers and is at the same time very hard and even harsh for people who are having a hard time. Your policy pays a great deal of attention to the financial side of our economy, but too little to the real economy. This is the result of this policy. You can do two things. You can say that the European Commission is mistaken, that the opposition is mistaken, that the Court of Auditors is mistaken, that all those people who are angry and disappointed today are wrong. Anyone who disagrees with your policy and says that there is still some work to be done is mistaken. That's piste A. I think there's a better slope, piste B, which is preferably plan A. This means that the opinions are taken seriously and that you change your policy here and there and even on fundamental points. Will you take this into account this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u4	Mr. President, Prime Minister, no one today believes in your budget. We have had two more proofs this week, not least. First, the Court of Auditors is very critical of your budget. It points to overvalued revenues (Caiman tax, bank tax on securities accounts and other measures) as well as your DIY with the growth rate and raises serious doubts about the budgetary neutrality of your ISOC reform. Secondly, the European Commission, which is also very critical, says nothing else. It confirms your crafting on the growth rate which does not comply with European legislation and which has the consequence of making your budget unreliable at all. Like us, the Commission notes that our country's economic growth is far behind that of the euro area. It also points to largely overvalued revenues. She talks about the tax shift not funded in 2018 but that structurally reduces the state's revenues. It is also critical of the reform of ISOC which, she said, cannot be considered neutral. So, Prime Minister, we're getting used to your government's amateurism. But this approximate management, this short-term management now puts us in danger. Who's gonna pay? These are, of course, future generations and our children. Other people say that, even in your majority. Mr. Bogaert's comments were heard and I condemn his condescending remarks with regard to Francophones. He tells us that the budget is the weak link and he is right. Mr. Van Rompuy said exactly the same thing. Your policy, Prime Minister, is a vicious circle. First of all, it is a structural sape of revenue. Then you see deficits and, on the basis of them, you attack spending and therefore the citizens. Like Mr. Van Overtveldt confirmed that in his statement yesterday, we will have to re-earmark the state's revenue. Prime Minister, my question is quite simple. How, after that, can you still view corporate tax reform as neutral? When will you really become aware of these shortcomings? When will you finally make serious work on the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has made a warning that we need to step up our efforts on the reform train. She is asking for an answer to her analysis, and that is a good thing in order to prevent the project we are working on with this government from stopping. If we look at the figures, a proper analysis is of course essential. Much more than primary school, one should not have followed to understand that there is a deficit when expenditure is greater than income. If the Court of Auditors, together with the European Commission, finds that the revenue is on schedule, this means that the problem lies with expenditure, unless, of course, we do not want to make any budgetary efforts. This is because we have set the bar very high with this government. We have decided to make efforts without increasing taxes, without introducing disruptive measures for the general public, which is successful in many areas. Public property is falling or, in ordinary people's language, we have raised less money from the general public. If we had not done so, we would not have had a budget deficit, but the citizen would have paid the bill heavily. Moreover, debt rates have fallen and this is also a result of the choices made. This does not prevent us, Prime Minister, from following the budgetary path we have imposed in the context of these limits. Hence my question about the context of the answer you will give to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Commission has just delivered its opinion on the budget. It's not really a surprise. We knew there was a risk that such a remark would be made to us. As far as I am concerned, I feel that the budget provides a balance between the budgetary efforts to be made and the much-needed economic recovery. The Commission also notes that there are doubts as to the neutrality of the corporate tax reform. It is placed in a European framework with countries that are lowering their rates everywhere and it is, of course, necessary to maintain our competitiveness in this area. Prime Minister, in your speech from the State of the Union, you mentioned a whole series of parameters that are changing positively and that correspond to the policy that we are trying to implement. Could you give us information about the state of these parameters, about these positive developments which lead to revenue increases? The Court of Auditors has commented on certain revenue which would not be achieved. She made the same kind of remarks in 2017. Today, we realize that we are going to exceed the revenues that were planned and that were being questioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission does indeed have a number of reservations about the budget, as every year, now also in the 2018 budget. She says that we are at risk of being non-compliant with the European medium-term prospects. It is true that this budget will not be in balance at the end of this legislature. We would all have liked a balance with this majority. Colleagues, this requires us to make the overall picture clear. We have achieved two thirds of the road, in particular a clean-up of some EUR 6 billion. We have saved, but at the same time we have also been structuralally reformed, including in pensions, the labour market and health care. Despite the savings and much-needed reforms, this government has also managed to reduce the tax burden in this country by 1.8 percent, representing an 8 billion euro picture. In this way we give oxygen to the companies, so that they can create more jobs. They do, too, colleagues. 102 000 jobs have been added and everyone says that by the end of the legislative term more than 240 000 new jobs will have been created. That's how we give oxygen to people. We also see the purchasing power of everyone increasing. On 1 January 2018, within two months, the tax shift will receive its new change. Then the wage will increase again on average by 146 euros net per month. Everyone will see that in the bank account. Furthermore, consumers and business confidence are increasing and investment is in the lift. Colleagues, this is the approach of the majority: structural reform, lowering taxes, creating jobs, getting more people to work and making the economy grow. Together with all these elements, we will balance the budget, not in any other way. Minister, I have a number of specific questions. Are you convinced that your report on reform - the elements I have just listed - will be sufficient to convince Europe of the Belgian budgetary work so that they would accept it? I would also ask the government to step up expenditure so that all expenditure will be under control by the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is touching to see how this majority has come here with some reservations about the warning given by the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission's report is downright devastating. We have indeed been demoted to the club of the southern European countries. We've been put on the penitentiary. That never happened in the previous government, by the way, in this government. We have talked about this, but I would like to make two other points. It concerns corporation tax, which should be fiscally neutral. The European Commission is also very concerned about this. The Court of Auditors has also expressed great concern. Colleagues of CD&V, that is again the trick-Van Overtveldt. Income is overestimated, afterward it appears that this income is not being achieved, with the result that savings are needed. The cynical thing about the story is that the majority here today is saying that everything is pretty good and that the majority in this House will soon approve the result of Van Overtveldt's policy, in particular the reduction of pensions. That is what this government's policy leads to. One final point, perhaps the worst. Prime Minister, you are responsible for what you are doing in our country. Minister Van Overtveldt, yesterday, for the second time, this government received a scold from European Commissioner Moscovici. Why? Because, for the second time within six months, this government is blocking European directives and is slowing down the solidarity within Europe to combat tax evasion and tax evasion in an international way. This government is constantly on the brakes, with the result that this international approach, which is needed if it is to eliminate tax fraud, is being implemented with delay. That is also your responsibility, Minister. That's what my question is about. What is the reason why this government has been held back twice when it comes to European directives to tackle tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u9	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the best budgetary measure is to ensure that the economy grows and that jobs are added, so that families and businesses have more income and the government has a better budget figure. We do, and we will continue to do so throughout the legislature. We are always advised by respectable institutions when drawing up a budget which is an estimate. The Court of Auditors, the European Commission, the National Bank and the Planning Bureau provide positive and critical advice. That's always been the case, that's their role. That has always been the case, regardless of the majority. Besides, it has to stay that way. Nor can we take these opinions seriously if we want to keep a budget credible. Ladies and gentlemen, a budget, like a medal, has two sides: revenue and expenditure. If you light one of the two, you only see half the picture. Every family father, every good housemother looks both ways. We expect the government to do the same. Ladies and gentlemen, a budget is not a static one. We discuss it a lot. A government must adapt them in function of advice, in function of possible external events. Prime Minister, you came to this Chamber in October and explained the agreements made with the majority and you were given the confidence to do so. It is important that at the end of 2018 we also implemented and implemented all these agreements. That is a responsibility of every minister. That is the responsibility of the whole government. Prime Minister, how will this government implement and implement the commitments made by the end of 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, budgetary work is under way in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. What can be seen at this stage? As far as revenue is concerned, the Court of Auditors has come to tell us, as Parliament's budgetary adviser, that it is unable to validate the government's budget forecasts. On important positions, which involve the responsibility of the government, such as the reform of ISOC, the Court of Auditors tells us that it does not know how to guarantee neutrality. As far as the Cayman tax is concerned, the Court of Auditors tells us that it cannot guarantee the amount entered in the 2018 budget. With regard to the taxation of securities accounts, the Court of Auditors tells us that it cannot say anything. It cannot confirm or validate the credibility of your figures. This is all the more worrying because the overall reflection on the validation of the standards for assessing our tax revenues, to which the government itself has acceded, has not been completed. He's still in class. In terms of revenue, we are always in uncertainty, at best. The good news about spending is that the debt burden is decreasing considerably. For the rest, a European Union recommendation on net primary expenditure sets the trend at 1.6%. According to the Court of Auditors, in Belgium we are 2.7%. We will have the opportunity to resume this discussion with the representatives of the European Commission next Monday. The signal is, in any case, equally worrying. In terms of results, the improvement for 2018 is very minimal. But above all, the government's multi-year trajectory, as reflected in the general budget statement, is worrying. Indeed, beyond 2018, it reveals a new deterioration. We already know that the government that will succeed you, Prime Minister, will come to Parliament to say: "Desolated, we are not at the end of the tunnel, we still have efforts to demand and austerity measures to impose on the population." Prime Minister, what message can you send internally to your majority partners, and in particular to those who consider the budget to be the weak point of this government? There is no concern about the vote on the budget. It will be voted by a majority. But an official concern has been expressed. And internationally, what message do you send to European partners to try to convince them that you are a good student? However, the Commission ranks us in the queue platoon, with the so-called " Club Med" countries – the red lantern returning to Greece. Unfortunately, we are in the queue, both in terms of budgetary results and of the implementation of European directives. So what message do you send to your European partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago we concluded the Summer Agreement. In doing so, two or three years after the start of the government, we have made a clear choice. It was a choice for the restoration and for the relay. We have decided on a package of structural reforms. The procedure is now under way in Parliament for its practical implementation. In addition, we will cut through with a view to modernising our labour market and a thorough fiscal reform, including the reform of corporate taxes, and we will develop measures to increase oxygen for our economy and to increase our country's attractiveness to investors. We have made clear choices. We are convinced that more jobs are the best key to budgetary reform and to the financing of social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, we fully assume the choices of structural reforms that have been made to make our economy stronger and social cohesion more sustainable. At the same time, we are taking on the budgetary choices that have been made. Why? Because we believe that two thirds of the road to fiscal consolidation has been made and that this ongoing work must continue. However, fiscal consolidation cannot, in our view, take place against economic recovery, job creation and the stimulation of the economy. If we take seriously all the reports that are addressed to us - we examine them to draw the relevant consequences - a small work of memory is useful both on the benches of the majority and of the opposition. Exactly a year ago, we witnessed, in the Leader of the Opposition, a copy-paste of the debate that is taking place this afternoon. Already at the time, the European Commission was carrying out more pessimistic forecasts for 2017. A few months later, we found that not only was the 2017 budgetary control not necessary, because the figures were better than expected, but where the European Commission was pronouncing – 2%, it had to see – 1.5%. This substantial improvement represents a difference of €2 billion in sanitation. Finally, let me tell you, Mr Crusnière, that your political formation is not particularly well placed to give lessons in fiscal consolidation. A party that, running after the extremist left-wing parties, advocates the 30-hour week without loss of pay, demonstrates its irresponsibility to future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a clear choice. We are determined. We do indeed believe that we should continue to work on the reorganisation until the last day of this legislature. That is our responsibility. At the same time, we want more businesses and more jobs, because they guarantee social cohesion in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u12	Mr Prime Minister, there was really a lot to your answer. We haven't learned much. Mr Verherstraeten said that we should look at income. They are the responsibility of Minister Van Overtveldt. The N-VA said we should look at the expenses. He might be looking at Minister Peeters. And you're starting to attack the opposition. What is a prime minister supposed to do? Instead of attacking the opposition, he should say that he has read the report and is working on it. We at Ecolo-Green are not budget fetishists. That's not us. What interests us much more is whether society is in balance or whether the economy is ready for the future. If that were the case, we would not be so critical today. What do we see, ladies and gentlemen? There is a budgetary problem despite the lack of investment. Earlier this week we saw commuters trying to take the train in vain in our country. They want to know what the Prime Minister is doing today, but they are not getting an answer. Trains are standing still in our country, the budget is not in balance and our economy is not ready for the future. Let me give you another example, and that concludes my reply. Last week many people looked at mypension.be how much their pension will yield. After the vote later, it will be less because of the government's policy. Now, ladies and gentlemen of Open Vld and colleagues of the N-VA, despite all the savings, there are still huge budget pits. Colleagues of the N-VA, you are always talking about expenditure and no longer about redesign. Wouldn't the N-VA ministers make a spending exercise? Mr. Jambon, you'd be doing a spending exercise. It's paid zero euros. That's not what the N-VA's talking about. When the N-VA is talking about spending, it is about pensioners, about sick people, about people who are having a hard time. Colleagues of the N-VA, I would like to say very clearly: in terms of investment we will be an ally, but in terms of savings we will and will remain your fiercest opponent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u13	Prime Minister, I am very worried. You are constantly bathed in some self-satisfaction, there is no question in your head. If your policies were so good, if your policies were the best, we would not be lagging behind in terms of growth compared to the rest of the euro area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u15	Mr Miller, the numbers are here! That is what the Commission is saying! Prime Minister, Minister of Budget, your budget is based on sand! You make promises – including an investment plan, defence investments, tax shift, corporate reform – that are unfortunately not funded! As I said, it is with the future of our children that you play with this management of swingers! We cannot accept it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u16	Prime Minister, the opposition says that nothing is being done about tax fraud, even though the revenue is much greater than under Mr Crombez's policy. It is also said that there is a very poor budgetary policy, even if the deficit was 3% and we are going to 1%. There was a government seizure of more than 55% when the Di Rupo government stopped. This now amounts to less than 52%, which is a difference of more than 10 billion, which we get less from the citizens. It is true, colleagues on the other side, that we could have thrown that into the budget deficit with your policy, but then the citizens would have paid the price. I quote one socialist, particularly Mr Moscovici, who says that our country is on the right track today. That's the same Moscovici you like to refer to. The same French socialist, however, says that the government must ensure that it controls expenditure. Dixit Moscovici. There are good socialists, but it is a pity that they do not live in this country. Prime Minister, we must, of course, have the courage to continue the process of reform. The solution is not to impose more taxes, although perhaps one: if we were to impose a tax on false illusions, the opposition would finally contribute to solving the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u17	Mr Prime Minister, having the opinion of the Court of Auditors, having the opinion of the Commission is important. They are counselors who accompany us on the difficult path we must take. But next to the advisors, there are those who make comments, the commentators. It's like in real life or in sports life: there are those who comment and there are those who work. We chose to work. Go on!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u18	Prime Minister, I think you have convinced us all that this government is reform-minded and that the reform train that has been set in motion is really starting to pay off. It is that direction and only in that direction that we must continue to move towards a balanced budget, which is ultimately the intention of all the groups in this House. That must be the practice. The second major part of the European Commission's criticism that we will hear on Monday is about our state debt. Nothing has been said about this today, but in order to bring public debt below 100%, a number of privatisations will have to be carried out urgently and a number of stock exchange movements will have to be carried out, even during this legislative period and as soon as possible. That is the second most important task that Europe has to offer us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u19	Prime Minister, you have taken the opportunity to explain once again the guidelines of your Summer Agreement. That Summer Agreement has now been adjusted and weighed by the European Commission and you have been flunked. You've been cocked. [[Mistaken reactions from the majority]] From what I hear, I'm right. I hear Mr Verherstraeten say that the figures are always followed by the important bodies. That is not the case. The Minister of Finance shall amend the notes of his own administration. We recently presented the evidence. In the context of the notional interest and interest yield, the own administration advises to subscribe zero euro. Minister Van Overtveldt decides to register EUR 300 million. That is the way in which the current government deals with the budget. That is the way in which the present government always comes up with the same thing, namely savings in social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr Vanvelthoven, first of all, we have not been guided by Europe. We have not received a red card from Europe. We had a red card during the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u21	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u22	We had a red card at the beginning of the previous legislature. We corrected that at the time. We do now have a yellow card. A player who gets a yellow card knows he's supposed to be careful. We will be, too. Secondly, we do not save on social security. We're saving on spending. We go from 53.2 % of gross domestic product in 2016 to 51.8 % of gross domestic product. We are saving on expenditure, but social security expenditure is rising and it is right to increase. That's what we do! Colleagues of the Green parties, I have heard your proposals over the last few days that cost billions of euros without indicating how you will finance them. Then I understand, Mr Calvo, that you are not a budget fetishist. Prime Minister, expenditure will continue to fall. That's what we agreed to. Expenditure on social security will rightly increase in the coming years, as agreed. The income of personal income taxes and corporate income taxes are on track thanks to growth and additional jobs. Other revenues are less on course. We'll send you there where necessary. We'll keep our end of the bargain. In this way, the budget remains on course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u23	Prime Minister, you have asked us to remember both the majority and the opposition. Objectively, if we look back and see the evolution of this government's fiscal discourse, we cannot deny that there has been a significant shift. The return to fiscal balance was, at the beginning of the legislature, the alpha and omega of your policy. Now, you make up this shift by talking about a recovery policy. The change of speech conceals the budgetary difficulties you continue to face. Prime Minister, with you, the vote on the budget will become an act of faith. You believe it with the faith of the coalman. The European Commission and the Court of Auditors do not believe this, as does the opposition. In your majority, people speak vehemently in this forum, but my feeling is that they pretend to believe in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have another problem for you, particularly ARCO. Many ARCO victims have subpoenaed the Belgian State, Belfius and a number of ARCO vehicles. Now it appears to be June 2021. That is still four years, or seven years after the start of the procedure, or ten years after the fall of Dexia. Do you know what we call it? Institutionalised injustice organised by the Belgian State. That is certainly when we know that the Belgian State is one of the parties to the proceedings. Prime Minister, I know that you are committed to human rights. I would like to refer to Article 6, which provides that proceedings must be possible within a reasonable period of time. It now appears that for those who have not started proceedings, the limitation period is imminent. For them, the statute of limitations on the file of the 'Bende van ARCO' threatens. You are indeed working on a creative solution, and that is good, but the result is that the taxpayer is going to pay for the deception. The taxpayer can do it instead of the cheaters. We can't do that. Mr Prime Minister, there is, of course, also the lack of operation of justice. After all, it is because of this that the injured cannot sue. I would very much like to quote from the coalition agreement, on page 109: "The government will do everything in its power to ensure that decisions are taken at every level of jurisdiction, ideally within the year following the establishment of the case." You promised one year, seven years is the reality. Seven years to plead and then there's no verdict. Prime Minister, are you going to keep the promise of one more year? In the meantime, do you have a solution for the ARCO victims? Or do you perhaps intend to wait until the State can be held liable for negligence? Maybe that's a piste, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have included in our coalition agreement that we are going to develop a regulation within the framework of the ARCO dossier. We have also had the opportunity in recent months to confirm the political will of the government to do so. That is why we have set up a task force, with the support of legal advisers, to find a lasting solution. It is necessary in this context to hold strong consultations. We are doing this in the framework of the IPO of Belfius. It is also necessary to take into account European law, for legal certainty. Consultation with the European Commission is also crucial. I can confirm that we are working hard with the experts involved to achieve additional results as soon as possible, in accordance with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u26	Prime Minister, you are talking about the task force on the solution, but it will have to be supported and approved by the EU. We know that 800 000 people were deceived by ARCO and this is not just one, but twice. A first time because they received incorrect information, a second time because ARCO did not contribute to the guarantee scheme. However, now those involved are also deceived by the Belgian State and not once, but twice. A court case is postponed and the taxpayer is entitled to pay the deception instead of the 'Bende van ARCO'. A year ago I made a call here to movement.net and I do it again today. Where's Hart over Hard now? Are you still a social movement? On the web site I read: "We need to strengthen each other." However, the ARCO-dufferer is put aside. The only thing I can say, dear ARCO, is this: you have deceived us 800 000 times; please stop and bear your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u27	Prime Minister, Belgium is a champion of Europe, unfortunately not in football, but in the category of traffic jams. This Tuesday, we broke all the records again: 445 kilometers of plugs were recorded at 08:00. It is therefore not only in budgetary terms that the figures are poor. Looking beyond this figure, the average number of hours spent by Belgians in traffic jams - which reached more than 300 kilometres on that day - has increased from 14 hours in 2011 to 50 hours last year. This increase is recent. The importance of these plugs is such that the Belgian spends an average of forty-four hours a year. The economic cost is also enormous, as 8.6 billion added value is lost. There are solutions, Prime Minister. I would even say that they are at hand, or even resting in your hands, in any case for part. I'll talk to two of them. Firstly, it is important to stop subsidizing traffic jams and to organise a tax turn to put an end to "wage-cars". Secondly, and it is above all on this subject that I wanted to hear from you today, the investment plan must take shape. We need to invest in alternatives, particularly in infrastructure such as RER, SNCB, connecting nodes, river motorways - as we propose - or motorways reserved for bicycles, which require coordination with the regions. These different aspects must be included in a major investment plan. Today, I would like to receive guarantees from you, so that this mobility axis is a truly structuring part of the investment plan. Are you willing to share our target of a 30% reduction in travel time by 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again I would like to express the federal government's full mobilization to ensure that an investment pact is reached, a pact which would mobilise all the different actors and perhaps even, as mentioned above, which would pass through conventional currents, the majority against opposition on the subject. I welcome the Conference of Presidents a few days ago, which took steps forward to try to give this capacity to Parliament to be also a key player in the implementation of an investment pact. I consider, in the context of the intensive preparatory work already carried out, that there is no doubt that there are three key themes, three main axes: the digital agenda, the energy transition and mobility. Mobility is an extremely important topic in the State of the Union speech. And a few weeks ago, I declared our intention to convene thematic consultation committees to advance operationally coordination between the different levels of power. I have had the opportunity to meet with the Ministers-Presidents with a view to organizing the work of the consultation committees on this subject in the coming weeks and months. I also share this conviction that, for this investment pact, including mobility issues, it should be possible to try, with the support of the experts of the Strategic Committee and the various actors, to identify the objectives and to assess, in five or ten years' time, the progress made. We are also working concretely on the project, starting with the SNCB, which is within the scope of the federal state, to identify additional resources for the financing of important infrastructure, such as the RSP or other regional priorities. We also want to ensure that coordination between local authorities, federated entities and the federal government is optimal. In this context, we have begun the work that is likely to continue in the coming years and beyond this legislature. Taxation will also be an instrument to be used to remain consistent with the actions undertaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u29	Prime Minister, imagine for a moment the potential of a green new deal in this area. In fact, on average, a Belgian loses more than a week in traffic jams; there are more than EUR 8 billion lost in value added and, in the field of healthcare, there is a loss of 2 billion due to pollution, linked to car transport. If you manage to control these three factors, you get the basis of a real deal, in which everyone could find themselves: in part the workers, with a reduction in working time that could be recovered over this week; in part the employers, with the reduction of social contributions; in part the society, with investments in mobility and health. Because too often it is forgotten that behind the mobility issue, there are health issues. This investment pact can contribute to this. This does not mean that we will become world champions, but we can at least move forward. We remain mobilized, as do you, to make progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u30	Mr Minister, this morning we were able to take note of the announcement at a Philips Works Council in Turnhout that 78 jobs will be lost; 49 workers and 29 servants will soon be out of work. [[Rumor]] Jobs, jobs, jobs. Do you remember? That's what it's about! Jobs are dying and yet it is not quiet in the hemisphere. 78 jobs are lost by workers who have worked in shifts there for almost their entire lives. It is also a business where profits are made. Last year, Philips Lighting made 180 million euros of profits, of which 160 million went to the shareholders. What's in Philips' plans today? Philips Lighting promises the shareholders 300 million euros in the next two years. That's a real capital flight. Colleagues, what are we doing about that? The shareholders are clear. This morning, the shares had increased by 1.48 %. When one looks at how many taxes Philips Lighting pays in our country, one comes at 0.5 % in the last three years, 0.5 % to just let jobs die. My questions are very clear, Minister. First of all, have you met the management of Philips Lighting? Will you confirm this morning's figures, but above all those for 2020? After all, it was said that there would be a big plan by 2020. Secondly, what will you do, so that in Turnhout more jobs will not die, but they will just be preserved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw, I have been told, as you have heard, that a special works council has been set up and that 78 jobs are being called into question or cancelled. For the workers, that is terrible news. It is also very negative for the families associated with it. The administration hasn't received a file yet. We assume it's a file of collective dismissal. The Renault Act must be followed, in all its stages. In the meantime, I've asked the board of directors on my cabinet to give me the text and explanation. She was supposed to be here tomorrow. I also asked the trade unions to come to my cabinet to explain and explain. It's 78 jobs now, but what's the next phase? I believe that the management should clarify this and that, as the Renault Act provides, negotiations can now be held in the company, if necessary, with a view to reducing the number of redundancies, which is now 78. However, I must first hear the management and the trade unions. I will, as in any file in which collective dismissal has been announced, do what I can within the limits of my possibilities. Not only is every job we create, a good job; every job we can keep is also very important. I'll do everything I can for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u32	Minister, I can only encourage you to be firm tomorrow. The company Philips makes a lot of profits, has already received many gifts and is today responsible for the development of new technologies. The bottom line is that it is not a question of different sectors of the light bulb industry that Philips itself drops, while it itself is active in the LED sector. So you must send out a clear signal, Minister, that "jobs, jobs, jobs" means more than just getting gifts or making profits. So I suggest, Minister, that you also make it clear that the plans to spend 300 million for shareholders in the following years are not compatible with the maintenance of jobs for all those workers. You, Minister, will have to fight for their rights tomorrow as responsible for society as a whole, for the workers and the workers who may be on the streets tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u33	Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you a question on this issue. The way in which Deliveroo Benelux deals with its couriers and the way in which the government reacts to them is beginning to become a soup. It's a lot bigger than Deliveroo alone. This week, there has been a lot of confusion around the whole platform economy. I am thinking of the texts on Uber that have been in the newspapers this week. You know it all, Uber, an Internet company that connects its customers to private drivers via an app. The question was whether they were employees or self-employed. In 2015, the RSZ decided that they were self-employed, that they should be considered self-employed. I read this week in De Standaard: 'Uber drivers are now employees'. You say that the RSZ will review its opinion of 2015. At the same time, we had a discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs in which the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud said that there was nothing to it and that the RSZ would not reconsider its opinion on this. So, Minister, there was confusion. That applies not only to Uber but also to Deliveroo. I read today that the CEO of Deliveroo said that the platform economy does not fit into current legislation. Yet he employs people and does not really care about the legislation that exists today. Minister, I asked you a month ago how it was possible for an employer to decide with a fingernip that his employees should in future go through life as self-employed workers, while still determining where, how and in what way they should be rewarded. Deliveroo says today she'll do a social gesture. From now on, she also provides people with occupational accidents insurance. Mr Minister, I think this is a first in our country, a self-employed person who provides insurance for accidents at work to another self-employed person. This shows once again to me that it is not a relationship between self-employed workers, but that it is about employees rather than self-employed workers. So, Minister, my questions are very brief. First of all, is it true that the RSZ has revised its opinion on Uber? Secondly, on what grounds has he revised his opinion? Thirdly, you said in reply to my question on Deliveroo that you would send the inspection services. In the meantime, the Ghent labour inspector has also started an investigation. Are the results of that already in? What are the findings? Fourthly, do you believe that if Deliveroo offers accident insurance to those people, this is a relationship between employer and employee? Finally, perhaps the most important question. Minister, what action are you going to take to ensure adequate social protection and decent working conditions for workers working on a platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u34	Mr President, Minister, as mentioned by Mr Kitir, Deliveroo is one of the players in the collaborative economy. You know them, the bike couriers with a much too large backpack that appear more and more in the street and which, by the way, do good work. They are mainly students who earn a penny in a very flexible way and at the same time work on their condition. There is nothing against that in itself. It is also a perfect combination of work and study. Until recently, these couriers enjoyed relatively good social protection thanks to the cooperation between SMart and Deliveroo. Very recently, however, Deliveroo announced that it would cease this cooperation. As a result of this cessation, approximately 3,800 bike couriers will lose their employees' status and will have to switch to a sui generis freelance model, paying for them no longer per hour but per delivery. This bizarre yet unexpected move by Deliveroo is surprising since SMart was very close to the conclusion of a collective agreement for bicycle couriers. I wonder if the future 500-euro free-of-charge arrangement has anything to do with that. Doesn't that mean that Deliveroo is trying to circumvent social legislation in purely profit-making terms? Deliveroo denied that very much in the media on 26 October, but today we read in the same media that Deliveroo does indeed beckon to that system of untaxed extra-earning. At the end of October, following Mr Kitir's oral question, you ordered an investigation into the trade and walk of Deliveroo, which shows that you are concerned with this dossier. Ghent's employment officer also recently opened a study and the social partners are following this with suspicion. Mr Minister, I have the following question. What social protection will these couriers lose in this new situation? The possibility of earning EUR 6 000 free of tax each year cannot have the effect that Deliveroo suddenly transforms existing bicycle courier jobs, which are subject to taxes, social security etc. into duty-free jobs. Won't that lead to job destruction? Do you have a look at the results of your investigation? Is our classical labour law sufficiently armed against any abuse of these new forms of employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u35	Mr Kitir, as far as Uber is concerned, I agree with you that there is a great deal of uncertainty that needs to be eliminated as quickly as possible. Firstly, you know, of course, that the parties involved can give a qualification to their employment relationship, whether employed or self-employed, but on the basis of the facts, there will be a requalification at a certain point when it appears that someone is under the direction, supervision and authority, and thus under the employees' statute, or that he is self-employed. The freedom of the parties in Belgium has, thank goodness, been clearly framed in the legislation. As far as Uber is concerned, there is a clear statement in the United Kingdom, where it has been said that it is employees. We have expressly asked the administration to reconsider the matter. The material of fact is of course something that is not fixed but constantly evolving. They work with apps and everything indicates that they are moving towards employees. I hope to be able to give absolute clarity to all drivers working on the Uber platforms as soon as possible. Secondly, there are clearly a number of complaints about Deliveroo: inadequate regulation of prevention, accidents at work and so on. The employee's hearing officer is now investigating those complaints. Moreover, the organisational model has changed there. Mr Van der Donkt has also referred to this. I hope that by the end of this year of the inspection I will have sufficient elements to clarify Deliveroo: are the couriers self-employed now trying to make them self-employed or are they employees? Deliveroo now says that those self-employed will give accident insurance. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. Let it be clear: if it turns out to be employees, and that opportunity is not excluded, then accident insurance is not a favor but an obligation. Then the welfare legislation also applies. In this respect, clear rules are laid down in Belgian legislation. Thirdly, I am also very concerned about the safety conditions in which these people have to work. Whether they are self-employed or employees, their working conditions must provide them with the necessary safety. The conditions for this must be created. I will receive the CEO of Deliveroo on 18 December. He asked for a meeting. I said to wait for the results of the inspection, but I would certainly like to receive him to discuss it. Mr President, I will conclude my speech. We are facing new developments in the platform and sharing economy. It would be unwise to block them. It would be unwise to say that Belgium cannot or cannot do that, but one thing is clear: social legislation must be respected by everyone, whether in the collaborative economy, the platform economy or any other economy. We must respect what we have agreed together in Belgium and also give the protection that must be applied to it. I will look further with the inspection and colleagues to ensure that people who are in a weak position or who have no choice but to engage in the platform or sharing economy are not abused without the necessary social protection, either as self-employed or as employees. The decision will be taken at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u36	Minister, I am glad to hear that you are so concerned about the subject, because it is very important. As you say, we cannot stop it. Digitisation offers new opportunities and can be positive. We should not necessarily look at it negatively, but we should not be blind to the new challenges we face. It's about a lot of people. It is not just about Deliveroo, but also about Uber and a lot of freelancers who are in a sort of no-man's-land and who have no social protection and who do not know the working conditions under which they work. This means that there must be clearer legislation on the grey area in which these people are employed. I therefore welcome the fact that you have put the inspection services to work on Deliveroo and that you will see the CEO. I think it is positive that the RSZ will review its requalification, but there is a real need for a broader framework. If you are bored tomorrow, Minister, there will be a study day tomorrow in the Senate. I very much invite you, but I will certainly give you my findings on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u37	Mr Minister, your very firm answer does your title of Minister of Work all the credit. It reassures me somewhat, but the collaborative economy is a young player in the labour market. It responds to the evolving labour market and deserves all the support, but as a legislator and executive, we have a duty to combat possible abuses such as the exploitation of the worker and the erosion of social protection, if necessary through appropriate legislative initiatives. In other words, we do not want twilight zones in the collaborative economy, but full light on the framework of labour law protection, with a win-win for the employee, the employer and the government. Our group is counting on you to monitor this very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u38	Mr President, Minister, over the last few days there has been yet another shock of rigour, this time through Secretary of State Zuhal Demir, about a number of incidents in Genk and Antwerp, in which a number of Islamic hate preachers spread their aberrant messages. This was entirely due, not to the use of your services, but to the Dutch television programme Nieuwsuur, which these hate preachers had followed and had put out a number of quotes. Flame politics, coincidences, as we unfortunately see all too often. Today, our group received answers from your colleague, Mr Geens, about the number of mosques, Islamic associations and imams on the list of extremism and being followed by the State's Security. This list of extremist, radicalist organizations includes 37 imams, 58 mosques, which is 1 in 5 mosques, and 61 Islamic associations. That is a doubling compared to five years ago. I have the impression that the government is no longer in control of the problem. The chaos reigns. Only on the basis of what the media brings out is quick action, the muscles are rolled, follow some harsh statements by a minister or a secretary of state, and that's it. Minister, I think we need a more structural approach. Local authorities can't handle this. Local corps and services have neither the resources nor the experience and expertise to address and monitor this. This leads to major problems, as we have known in recent months and years. Mr Minister, how do you deal with this in a structural manner, so that we do not have to intervene on the basis of any journalistic disclosure but on the basis of the information and information that your services receive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u39	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, let it be very clear first of all that there is no place for hate preachers in our society. They cannot be properly tackled and we have the necessary methods to do so. The OCAD plays the central role in this. We have expanded the database of the OCAD with a category of haters. It brings together all the information from seven support services, including state security, local police, federal police and so on. Information they obtain through their work ends up in the database of the OCAD. I can only invite local authorities to call on the OCAD to check whether these persons have been included in the database when they are asked to attend events, lectures or meetings in their municipality where there is doubt. There is therefore no discussion about this, hate preachers must be dealt with hard; there is no place for them in our society. The difficulty here is the debate on where hatred begins and freedom of expression ends. You and I, as Flemish nationalists, will have a certain sensitivity to freedom of expression. That is the debate: where does hatred begin and to where do we respect freedom of expression? This week we have seen a nice illustration with those two figures. One person turns on not to listen to music and not drink alcohol. Is that reprehensible? Yes. Is that a model of society to which we must turn our backs? Yes. But is that a crime? That seems difficult to me. The other person is inclined to support financially the man who is imprisoned in the United Kingdom and who was reported in Spain because he is suspected of being a terrorist or is supporting terrorists. This figure is clearly out of line and we must act against it. So I mean that it is not so easy to determine where freedom of expression is going and where the danger begins against which our society has to rely through criminal law. For those who defend a model of society that you and I do not support, Mr Dewinter, we have our democratic debate to place them. Those who call for the financing of terrorism need criminal action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u40	Minister, as a Flemish nationalist, I am indeed very sensitive to all aspects of freedom of expression. Here, however, we should be too careful rather than too lax. The past has clearly proved that. I am referring to the terrorist attacks, which were ultimately inspired by the same ideology as the ideology of the hate preachers. Minister, I must say that this is a mistake, when I find that only media stories are used and not on the basis of what the government gives information to local authorities. Today you can read in the Gazette of Antwerp that last Friday in Antwerp a certain Ramzan Sialvi came to preach. That man came all the way from Pakistan here, got a permit to enter the country and went to preach in the Noor ul Harammoskee, a Pakistani radical mosque in Antwerp, which is also on the list I mentioned earlier. All this can be done without public intervention and without such persons being stopped at the borders of our country. That's why I'm pleading for a black list of hate preachers. And that is why I also advocate the creation of an islam observatory with specialists, who are knowledgeable people and speak all languages, from Farsi to Arabic, and who can understand the messages to tackle the problem. Our police services are not sufficiently equipped to do so. Such an observatory could take this task to heart in an efficient manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u41	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it would have taken terrible images on the CNN television channel to ensure that, finally, we agreed to face the ignoble way in which migrants from sub-Saharan Africa are treated in Libya. Senegalese, Ivorians, Guineans, Chadians are sold to the four corners of Libya on markets because of their strength, as if they were beasts of sum, horses. They will go to farms and they will be beaten, abused. Their life expectancy will be greatly reduced. The international community has finally decided to react, it seems. France is convening the Security Council. The African Union called on its member States to respond and provide relief to these populations. It is true that these images tragically evoke in the eyes of Africans dark memories of the slave trade that were believed to be over forever. The Libyan government obviously has an outstanding responsibility in what is happening there, but we also have a responsibility. Excuse me, Mr. Minister of the Interior, since the President is not doing his job! This is still a serious matter. It is about trafficking in human beings and slavery of African populations in Libya. With regard to such a situation, of course, the Libyan government has responsibilities, but your government, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the European Union also have responsibilities, because it is us and the African Union who have chosen to delegate to the Libyan government the responsibility of taking over the people we have returned there and retaining those we did not want in Europe. I hope that we will have a policy in this regard that is at last up to the indignity of what is happening in Libya. Last night, at last, you issued a press release, which recalls general measures that everyone sees today as not effective. What I am asking you to do is to suspend the refoulement of sub-Saharan populations in Libya. Secondly, it is to help those who are actually victims of this slavery, to help those who want to return to their country and to ensure that those responsible for this human trafficking are prosecuted, that they are identified and prosecuted in international justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u42	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, ladies and gentlemen, like every human being in our countries, I was particularly shocked by the images broadcast – initially, on CNN's initiative – on all international channels and on social networks. We can only react very strongly to abject practices. But we did not wait for these images to realize that trafficking in human beings is a reality. Slavgism is still a reality for tens of millions of people, mainly, by the way, in Africa and perhaps also, in part, in Asia. Our actions were not born from these images. They're a long way from the past. I recalled this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs when I discussed the general policy note. Not long ago, I was in sub-Saharan Africa, Côte d'Ivoire, where we have a major role to play because our companies make the best chocolates in the world and import cocoa. However, in cocoa plantations, children are placed at work and not only in families. There are also children sold by slave traders from neighbouring countries. And we are taking concrete action, with Belgian companies, to combat this type of slavery. And this unfortunately exists in many other places. I am very pleased that some of the images broadcast on an international channel are causing reactions, but we have been acting for much longer than that. Weeks before these images, I was in Mali and Chad. In particular, I met young Malians returning from Libya and wishing to convey this message. We're trying to support them. How can we do it? Of course, by a series of international actions. An investigation is currently under way in Libya. We really want it to lead to prosecutions and convictions. We support France's approach to the Security Council to address this issue. Similarly, the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Ms. Fatou Bensouda, recently decided to open an investigation. We also want to move forward in this direction. Political solutions will have to be found. It is clear that in Libya, the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative, Mr Salamé, plays a special role. But you ask what Belgium is doing. We're intervening. We are one of the first contributors to the Emergency Trust Fund for Africa. This fund has already mobilized significant resources for Libya, particularly with the International Organization for Migration. As early as April 2017 - well before these images - 95 million euros were spent half on refugee protection, the other half on job creation. But we continue to work with the International Organization for Migration. That being said, I believe that in Libya we will not get out of this situation without a real political solution. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, as in many other dossiers, images appearing on international media provoke a reaction – I also see it in your assembly, Mr.President. But this fight against slavery is a fight that continues and not only in Libya. Belgium is engaged in a number of African countries, through our companies and through our diplomacy, to ensure that these behaviours are eradicated. As in many other topical debates, I am pleased that a moment of intense attention to a country brings to light a phenomenon that far exceeds the Libyan case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u43	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I hear your initiatives and welcome them. However, as far as the Libyan case is concerned, they have shown their ineffectiveness. Two and a half months ago, Médecins sans frontières shouted the alarm: "The system of detention of migrants and refugees in Libya is corrupt to the bone. It is a prosperous enterprise of kidnapping, torture and extortion." This continues today. What I'm asking you is an action commensurate with the indignity of what is happening in Libya. We must stop the refoulement to that country. It is totally scandalous to send people back to that country. We need to help them, we need to make sure that people who want to be repatriated are. The perpetrators of such crimes must be prosecuted before international justice. This is the only subject on which the minister replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, every ten days in our country, a child is born with cystic fibrosis, a serious genetic disease that causes, as we all know, major digestive and respiratory problems, and which remains, to this day, incurable. It is cold in the back, ladies and gentlemen! I would like, Madam Minister, to take advantage of the European CF Week to ask you about the neonatal screening of this disease, a screening that should lead to an increase in the age of diagnosis and thus improve the health of the affected children. Today, it is up to me that there is still a blockage because of the position taken by your colleague, Mrs Alda Greoli, on the division of costs between the federal and the federated entities in relation to this testing, which is essential. You will understand my astonishment, and even my discontent with this situation, with regard to the number of families affected by this terrible disease. Minister, it seems that you have made a personal commitment to bear the cost of genetic testing and follow-up examinations. Can you confirm this information? Can you also confirm that the remaining blockage at Community level is the result of the position taken by Minister Greoli on the allocation of costs for the awareness campaign and TIR tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u45	Mr President, Mr Senesael, thank you for your question on the screening of cystic fibrosis. The March 2016 Protocol Agreement provides for screening analysis by a technical working group. The results of the analysis of this working group were discussed in the Interdepartmental Council (IMC) last Monday. The decision on the screening of cystic fibrosis proposed to the ICD is a concrete approach to the screening of cystic fibrosis as part of the neonatal test of the newborn. For decades now, screening tests in the neonatal test have been taken over by the Regions as part of their preventive skills. Subject to the cooperation of the various authorities and centralised care at Community level, a screening of cystic fibrosis is possible, with an estimated budgetary additional cost of EUR 1.2 million for the country as a whole. The cost of organizing the screening programme, the cost of TIR test kits and the cost of carrying out and analysing TIR tests are borne by the federated entities. However, the federal authority will assume the costs from the individualized diagnostic phase, after screening, including all DNA tests, counselling for parents, follow-up examinations for this diagnosis, and the additional costs of eliminating false positive and negative results. In the INAMI budget, we have already provided for the necessary amounts. It is clear from the discussion at the Interministerial Conference on 20 November that Flanders will sign its agreement. The Federal takes responsibility in this matter, in accordance with its powers, but neither the French Community nor the Walloon Region have expressed, by the voice of the present Minister, their readiness to provide for a program for the screening of cystic fibrosis, as well as its funding. I would also like to announce this week that we are going to start testing. I hope that we will have an agreement before the end of the year, so that we can start on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Today, our group and I want to be with these children who know the terrible reality of cystic fibrosis, and their families. This reality is extremely complicated to live day after day. No one can remain indifferent to this situation. I can hear you, Madam Minister, but I regret Mrs Greoli's attitude, which is still incomprehensible and even unacceptable to me. In any case, I hope that the group discussions that will take place under your leadership will allow everyone to come back to the right positions and allow us to set up a neonatal screening program. This program will have a beneficial impact on the health of many of our children. That's the point. This is an urgent priority for these families who are suffering from this terrible disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u47	Mr Minister, yesterday, after a good discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs, we finally approved the mixed pension for civil servants. As a result, civil servants build up a statutory pension during the period in which they are permanently appointed and an employee's pension during the period in which they work as contractual. It also strengthens and increases the pension of contractual officials by building a second pillar in a more general form. It is a good and logical law, which eliminates arbitrariness, uncertainty and inequality between officials and provides a stronger pension for contractual staff. Moreover, pension charges for municipalities are reduced, especially in the longer term. That is why it is a pity and a little incomprehensible that the opposition is now taking everything out of the box to stop the necessary reform, which we have been waiting for so long, especially for the local authorities. We have heard that there is a great chance that a conflict of interest will be invoked in the COCOF tomorrow. Firstly, do you not fear that the delay and hence the subsequent entry into force of the law will lead to a massive wave of appointments to municipalities that will seize the delay to be in favour and circumvent the law in a certain sense? Secondly, the bill also abolishes the Daerden Act, which requires municipalities to pay a one-off contribution if they appoint a contract staff member as statutory. The COCOF's blocking strategy could cost the municipalities a huge amount of money. Do you have any idea? Thirdly, have you already had discussions with your colleagues from the cdH, the PS and Ecolo to convince them of the need for reform and, hopefully, to refrain from setting up that conflict of interest tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u48	Mr President, the meeting of the COCOF seems to want to distinguish itself by calling for conflicts of interest to postpone the socio-economic reforms that are being carried out by the federal government. Once again, she does not show that her interests would be adversely affected by the bill. On the contrary, if the motion for a resolution is adopted tomorrow, it will have a significant negative impact on local authorities. The draft law contains several measures to ensure the financial balance of the consolidated pension fund. Any delay in the adoption of the draft law will have an adverse effect on local authorities. The administration has indeed informed us that, without rapid action, payment of local civil servants' pensions could be made difficult as of next year. I would remind you that the draft law also lays the legal basis for allowing all public sector employers to introduce a second pillar for their contractual obligations. The federal government has earmarked 32 million euros for this. The Flemish and Walloon Governments have also recently announced that they have taken initiatives in this area. If the conflict of interest motion is approved, it will therefore have the effect of postponing initiatives in favour of the contractual partners. As Mr Spooren points out, any delay in entry into force will also mean a new flare-up of late appointments, the maintenance of the regularisation contribution and thus an increase in the financial burden on the municipalities. The subject was discussed yesterday at the meeting of the Consultative Committee. I appeal to the COCOF's sense of responsibility not to approve the conflict of interest and thus to prevent the damage to the municipalities and the contractual parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u49	Minister, you share my analysis, but you do not remove my fear. I hope that the parties in the COCOF are aware of the serious consequences that their decision may have. I hope that they will accept their responsibilities, because the municipalities have been asking for a long time. They could really get into trouble. It is, moreover, a reform that the public employer is responding to. No longer late appointments, but an incentive to build a second pillar for the contractual partners. I believe that this is important not only for the municipalities, but also for the very large group of contractual officials, who are desperately waiting for the legislative text to be adopted, so that they are finally rid of arbitrariness and uncertainty. I hope, together with you, that a wise decision will be taken tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u50	Minister, this week, the press reported on the National Bank's macroprudential recommendation to strengthen the robustness of the banking sector in the face of potential mortgage problems as well as real estate shock. In concrete terms, it would be suggested that banks be asked to increase their reserves rather than tighten the rules for borrowers. Following a risk analysis of the real estate mortgage market, the BNB noted the persistence of certain risk trends and called for a renewed vigilance by recommending that banks mobilise additional reserves in order to better arm themselves against possible shocks in the Belgian real estate market or to deal with problems related to mortgages. This new proposal by the BNB would therefore no longer correspond to what was proposed a few months ago. There is no longer a question of distinguishing between those who would borrow 80% and those who would borrow 100%. The measures proposed would therefore be in line with the measures adopted under the Di Rupo Government and would therefore aim at strengthening the own funds of banks with global risk portfolios. Individual appropriations would therefore not be included here, but rather portfolios with a higher-than-average risk profile. Minister, can you confirm that the National Bank no longer sets limits in terms of borrowing capacity? Is the measure advocated by the National Bank necessary to prevent Belgium from having a crisis like that of subprime in the United States? Can you explain to us the possible impact of this measure on individuals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days and weeks the National Bank has indeed warned against the possibility of overheating the real estate sector and also of over-indebtedness on the part of families. Initially, the National Bank would have advised the government to have additional capital buffers created by banks in loans paid out to more than 80% of the purchase value of a property. Meanwhile, the National Bank would have adjusted that and the advice would now mean that additional capital buffers would be requested in a risky loan portfolio, which is something different from the initial advice. With the 2008 financial crisis in mind, I think the concerns of the National Bank can be understood and supported. We need to be aware of that. Overheating of the real estate sector can be dangerous for all of us. On the other hand, however, I would also like to emphasise the importance of property for everyone. After all, in Flanders and Belgium we have weathered the economic crisis quite well thanks to a very strong ownership profile through property ownership. In Flanders, about 75% of people own their own homes and in Wallonia this percentage is slightly lower, but in Germany, for example, that percentage is only 50%. The fact that we have a strong owner market in the housing sector means that we can endure a lot of shocks. Housing ownership is also important for many people in the individual building up of family wealth and also important as an apple for thirst and possible buffer against post-retirement poverty. With CD&V, we continue to argue in favour of ensuring broad access to the housing loan market. Support for a home should also be included as much as possible in the policy, as this is important in dealing with possible crises. Mr. Secretary, can you indicate the opinion of the National Bank? Could you possibly make that opinion available to Parliament? How will you guard the owner's interest? How will you ensure that young families have the widest possible access to the capital market?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u52	Mrs Smaers, Mr Calomne, the government has indeed taken note of the latest analysis of the National Bank in relation to developments in the real estate market and has also studied it carefully. In particular, the analysis shows that there is a significant increase in household debt rates, mainly due to increasing mortgage debt. In order to ensure that a possible correction of future prices does not cause problems for Belgian banks, it is necessary to ensure that they provide sufficient "buffer capital". The government believes that a prudential macroeconomic measure, as proposed by the National Bank to strengthen the resilience of our banking system, is well-founded. This provision involves combining the 5% rule with the application of a 1.33 multiplier on mortgage risk volume. This measure is therefore fundamentally different from the one previously proposed. The current measure does not contain any link to the capital injection of households or the borrower itself, nor to any other characteristic of individual loans. This measure makes it very easy for banks to have an additional capital buffer for the risks contained in their portfolio. Mrs Smaers, you are right to say that the National Bank is proposing these measures to prevent overheating in the real estate sector. The opinion of specialists on this issue is currently different. Some indeed warn of early signs of overheating, while others tend to focus on the development of normal market dynamics. Therefore, this measure is certainly not based, for example, on the assumption that a strong correction would be a baseline in the coming period. Just in order to avoid crises, we have given the National Bank macro-prudential power over these and other issues. This is crucial because we must not forget the lessons of the past of such derailments in the financial sector and their impact on the economy as a whole. A macro-prudential authority should also be accountable. As you know, for example, we have already heard the National Bank in the Finance Committee on the subject of low interest rate policy, so I am sure that the macro-prudential supervisor, in this case the National Bank, will certainly be able and willing to give Parliament an explanation of this measure and its background.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u53	Minister, I would like to thank you for your answers. Unlike those who feed the press with fear and misinformation to the general public, your explanations have made it possible to clarify the debate officially and above all to reassure the citizens of our country. No, the middle class will not be harmed! No, young households will not be penalized in their project to acquire real estate! No, this federal majority will not put any risk on the national economy, which is currently booming! No, we will not give up an inch in front of certain simplisms or populisms! Today, some pretend to rediscover the urban exodus, although they are competent in the areas of housing, mobility, education and social cohesion. The Brussels Region sees more than 10,000 households leaving each year, often on two incomes. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laaouej, no, the citizens of our country will not be fooled!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which reassures me somewhat. I am absolutely in favour of imposing caution on banks, including on real estate and loans. In any case, any carelessness and major risks from banks should not be passed on to citizens and families by charging additional costs in the case of loans, especially in the case of mortgage loans. I repeat that we absolutely must insist that families are given the guarantee that they can still have considerable access to the loan market. It is precisely in times of crisis that a home is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u55	Mr President, Minister, tomorrow is Black Friday, followed by the period of buying presents for Christmas and New Year, followed by the obligatory solders. In addition, however, winter is also at the door, a hard time for many people without roofs, who are in poverty and suffering from hunger and cold. They often rely on charities to help them. Think of food banks, night care, etc. In 2015, this government has already made an effort so that VAT is no longer payable on donations of food surpluses to charitable institutions and OCMWs. A store that has food surpluses can therefore deliver it to a charity free of charge, to the needy. That is in fact the logic itself, but that arrangement does not yet apply to the gift of clothing, linen, mattresses or bedding. However, these are also important and even vital goods. This leads to an absurd situation where it is more interesting for the trader to destroy the goods than to give them. Of course, we also hear statements such as: 'I would rather set it on fire than give it away'. That's absurd. Let us therefore work together on a win-win situation. Hence my plea for an administrative concession, for an extension to the donation of textiles. Mr Minister, are you prepared to extend the existing VAT exemption for traders to other categories, in particular textiles, clothes, bedding and mattresses, since the generous operator of a clothing store or a bedding specialist is still being punished for his generosity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u56	Mr President, Mr Janssens, in principle, a trader who disposes of goods free of charge must charge VAT on this for the simple reason that he was able to benefit from the VAT deduction when buying the goods. That's basic logic. However, there are already some important exceptions to this principle. Firstly, a trader should not charge VAT on clothing which he gives away to a recognised organisation with a good cause, provided that it exports the clothing outside the European Union. Secondly, when a trader pours clothes on victims of a disaster, there is also no VAT due. Not long ago we adjusted the existing threshold, namely that it should not be about clothing worth more than EUR 50. Then, indeed, the scheme was introduced during this legislative period, and you have already referred to it, which introduces a VAT benefit regime for food surpluses. That already existed as far as food surpluses were donated to food banks. We have extended this to OCMWs and charities recognised by local authorities. I have no problem with your question to investigate whether this can be extended to clothing. On the contrary, I certainly want to do that. A priori, however, I should like to warn against two things which we must certainly take into account. Firstly, if we are to do this, we must, of course, ensure that the clothing arsenal that enters that canal does not compete with traditional trade in clothing. It seems obvious to me that we should avoid this. Slightly linked to this point, we must ensure that we do not create such an administrative burden that this misses its purpose. Taking these two elements into account, I am prepared to take a serious look at your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In 2015, you already responded to a number of sensitisation actions by the NSZ and, among other things, the actors on the ground represented in Comeos. I take into account all the arguments you have just raised, and I will continue to remind you of these initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u58	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u59	The Conference of Presidents of 22 November 2017 proposes to the Chamber of Representatives the extension until the end of January 2018 of the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "Friendly Settlement in Criminal Matters'. The Conference of Presidents on 22 November 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "Criminal Transaction" until the end of January 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u60	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u61	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u62	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u63	I shall first pass the floor to Mr Daerden, a member of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u64	Mr President, thank you. Minister, there you are! I thought you were gone. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the career unit is a positive step. To allow a worker to set up additional pension rights after a full career, we are in favour! I will even go further by saying that we are pleased with this. You finally realized the ineptity of the abolition of the pension bonus, as soon as you took office. Your project, on this point, has at least the merit of fixing this mistake a little, in any case in mind. But! As you knew, there's obviously one but. But the problem, minister, is that your measure does not apply to everyone. Worse! You are accompanying this measure with attacks that will affect many of our fellow citizens. Again, you charge the mark to job seekers, pre-pensioners and the sick. And not a little! By your royal decree alone, directly linked to this bill, you expect no less than €87 million in savings by 2024. This is reflected in the request for an opinion sent to the Social Security Management Committee and, despite the transitional period, which you have had to grant. You're making the weak ones pay again. This is intolerable and has a real impact on our citizens! I have already drawn your attention, like others, to this injustice in our debates in committee, at the first reading, at the second reading. Workers who have started working early, often in difficult sectors, will lose more than 100 euros of pension per month. And it is not the PS who says it or the unions - even if we say it too - but it is your own administration and that, through its estimates. These figures advanced at the beginning were so-called farfelus! They weren't resting on anything. I can see you're not saying it anymore! I hope you won't do it again today. In committee, workers directly involved in your reform were present in the public. These included Michel and Freddy. Both began to work very young - around the age of fifteen - and in particularly difficult areas, one in construction and the other in the harbour environment. They will lose 120 and 100 euros respectively per month of pension. I was able to draw your attention in committee to the case of these citizens, but you have kind of snobbled our arguments! How can one look at these people in the eye and say that these amounts are farfelus? The reality is that some people will lose, with these measures, about 10% of pensions and, for life! That is the reality of your project! On Tuesday, the three main unions, including the Liberal Union, wrote to all parliamentarians asking them to fight and not vote for these unjust and senseless measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, listen to the workers! They deserve respect. They are the ones who make our country and our economy run. Stop your ideological measures and work with the social partners on a coherent and comprehensive approach to pensions! That's what you've been asked for since the beginning of the legislature. So yes, you have to value the work. We are in favour, but not at the expense of those who have had an accident of life. Your project is a direct attack on similar periods, which on average account for 30% of men's and 37% of women's careers in Belgium. This information comes from the Planning Office. Your vision is always the same: reward those who have not had an accident of life and who are in good health. In Belgium, however, life expectancy in good health is 64 years, but this increases when living conditions, the level of training or the place where one lives are included. There is therefore a significant disparity and 64 years is only an average because, for many individuals, it is less than that. And you push yourself to work longer and longer, without any nuance, without taking into account the penitibility in particular, but that is another subject. In your bill, you clearly distinguish between the rights of a worker who is in good health and the rights of those who are ill or dismissed at the time of their life. You know this happens frequently. In your order, after that, in addition to that, you assimilate for the pension the second period of unemployment, that is, after one year, and the third period, in general after four years. You deliberately mix apples and pears. Your comparison between the second period and the third period is not on the road. Yet you and some of your predecessors have said at length that it was the same thing, but you know it's not the same thing. The second period of unemployment is still linked to previous work, while the third is a lump sum which is no longer linked to earnings and career. It is normal for there to be a difference in the pension rights it also gives. In the face of this unjust and incoherent text and despite our unsuccessful attempts in committee, we want to take advantage of this plenary session to try to make the majority understand. In a constructive way, we are tabling many amendments. A first series of amendments makes it possible to blow up the principle of career unity for all and not just for a few. The principle is good. May it be applicable to all without calling into question the assimilated periods as provided for in your text! If you do not want to make your reform work for all, if you insist on creating this discrimination, at least do not penalize workers who have been laid off! Our second set of amendments is intended to keep the current situation. The best years will be taken into account when calculating the pension. It is at least legitimate that there should not be a reversal for these people. If you really want to penalize the unemployed, the pre-pensioners, at least preserve those who are already! When they accepted the pre-pension, they couldn't imagine you were going to change the rules of the game. Today, you're making a real breach of contract. That is why our third set of amendments – I hope that we will not have to get to this point and that the first series will pass – preserves the current situation for all workers who take their pre-pension before 1 February 2018. Beyond that, we ask you to be reasonable and to take into account the impact of your decision on the whole issue of pre-pensions. It is unacceptable for an employer who dismisses older workers to be disresponsible because you are going to allow workers to take up their early pension. It is a new right, a freedom, but I fear that this freedom will turn into pressure on the worker and that, in the negotiation, he will be pushed to leave early to the early pension and thus to alleviate the burden on the employer who dismisses. We ask that the employer who has dismissed continue to be responsible until the worker reaches pension age. Finally, we ask you to extend your transitional measure to all unemployed workers, regardless of their age. You have turned back for the more than 50 years, under pressure from the opposition, from the unions, but especially from some of your partners. Recognize it! You admitted that finding a job could be difficult. Be consistent, do not penalize unemployed workers for a second time, whether they are 35, 45 or 55. Minister, your announcement about the end of the career unit was positive, as we said at the outset. We were ready to support you. With these application modalities and your royal decree, you have transformed this beautiful potential reform into something unfair, which penalizes some of the workers. Once again, hurt the weakest for ideological reasons and low budget. That is why we will vote against the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u65	Colleagues, so far we have had no more than 45 years to build up a full pension. Unfortunately, those who had a longer career did not see them valued in the form of additional pension rights for the number of years they worked after 45 years. Unfortunately, those years were lost before retirement. To compensate for the pension calculation of a person who worked for more than 45 years, they took the 45 best years of the career. The current situation is therefore somewhat unfair to those who work longer. It is particularly detrimental to the low-skilled. They come to work at a younger age and thus build a longer career. Anyone who starts working at the age of 18 up to the age of 65 has 47 career years, but sees that two years of additional pension building through the nose. Moreover, the situation goes against the government's view that there should be a strong link between pension contributions and pension benefits. Longer work must therefore be valued in the form of a higher pension amount. This draft law is finally changing the situation. It makes it possible to apply all the years worked for the pension. Those who leave the school gate at 18 and work until the age of 65 will be able to effectively bring in 47 career years for their pension amount. Those years will all count as much for the calculation. Those who have a long career will actually see their pension rise. This is important if we want to encourage people to work longer if we want to increase the effective exit age. One must realise that there is a double effect. On the one hand, every year means that someone is working longer, more tax revenues and more social contributions, with which social security is financed. On the other hand, social security does not have to pay a pension for that year. The measure therefore has a double impact on the financing of social security. In addition, the employee concerned can win in the new situation, as I have just explained. Moreover, this is sometimes forgotten to be mentioned, provided that the periods treated as such, including those of unemployment, are actually worked after 45 years of age and even above 45 years of age. If you have been unemployed between 30 and 35 years of age, then you will have to take those five years to 100 percent to get to 45 years. If people continue to work, even if they have been unemployed for five years, there will be no impact on that period. It therefore counts for 100 %, rightly so. I would also like to mention that the draft law contains an important innovation for bridge pensioners. They now have the opportunity, like others, to retire early. Until now, they were obliged to remain in the SWT regime until they reached the age of 65. That certainly makes a difference for those workers. After all, once the bridge pensioners opt for an early retirement pension, they will no longer have to make themselves available for the labour market, for a new job. From now on, just like anyone who works for, they will be able to opt to leave early. Importantly, it is not an obligation but a possibility. People have that choice. Everyone can make the calculation and judge whether they have built up sufficient pension rights or whether they think it is sufficient, possibly taking into account other income or assets at their disposal. I would also like to stress that breaking the unity of career is not just a decision of principle or an academic exercise. That certainly has a lot of impact on a large group of people. The pension committee also pointed out in its report: "The pension of 41.9 % of retired men and 18.7% of retired women was already reduced at that time due to the limitation to a single career: an average of 3.6 years for men and 2.9 years for women." At first glance, the figures appear to be somewhat contradictory with another aspect of our pension problem, particularly the fact that the average age in Belgium is 60 years and is therefore lower than in most other countries. How do we explain this contradiction? This can be explained by the fact that many workers have a longer career, while they are in early retirement. They are no longer active in the labour market, but they are building up pension rights to 100 percent in career years. We certainly believe that this measure to achieve the full career of 45 years is justified. This is a strong advantage that our social security provides to the citizens. We should be proud of that, too. However, we think it is too far to allow this period to be counted for further retirement, while it has already been taken into account for the 45-year career.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u66	Mr Spoorten, I understand that the next few years are not included. Why, however, do you not decide to take away the least favourable years? After all, everyone will agree with the fact that no 46th, 47th or 48th year would be added. However, the question is why the people involved should lose. That's what this is about. The basic question is whether the government can admit that workers will lose, which is clear from the budgetary point of view. There are 80 million euros in savings and there will be 8 million euros from people who are themselves re-expanding their careers. So you win 72 million euros. 72 million euros on the backs of pre-pensioners! So let's just decide who's gonna keep working without any problem has access to the unity of career. If they want to work for a 46th, 47th or 48th year, let them do so. Why should the workers who are at SWT be punished, especially because they are the ones who started working early? I remind you of what the government always says. "We want to value those who work hard," you say, but it's all those who started working very young! So, I'm stupidly asking you the next question. Why do you take the amount of the least favorable years, being the first years of the career, so don't just get rid of it? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u67	Mr Hedebouw, the answer is obvious. I just said it. All years of treated periods in which one does not work count for 100 % to reach the career condition of 45 years. For those who have been unemployed for a long time and could then return to work and continue to work afterwards, the same period will also count. In committee, we discussed in detail whether or not to include the treated periods after 45 years. The government has made a choice and, as far as we are concerned, a right choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u68	Mr. Spooren, there's more to this than that. As Mr Hedebouw says, we might still be able to earn that they only count for 45 years, but the problem is that you take the first 45 years. As a result, a person of 63 years old who started working before his 20th birthday, who has a career of 45 years and is two years old with SWT up to his 65 years, will have a lower pension. He has worked for 45 years, but he will have a lower pension than someone who starts working at the age of 20 and also works for up to 63 years, who therefore has a career of 41 years. Those two years, as far as I'm concerned, count with him. The person who started working earlier and has an accident that he is the victim of restructuring at 63 years of age will therefore receive less pension than a person who started working at the same age or who becomes unemployed at the same age or who is the victim of restructuring. That's where the injustice is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u69	Mr President, I would like to respond to two aspects of Mr Spooren's speech. What do we blame you for? Let's talk in years rather than days! Before, the best 45 years were taken into consideration, while now, if the person is in a similar period at the end of the career, the first 45 years will be taken into consideration. We explained the figures to you in committee. This creates a loss for these people. This is clearly a step backwards from their rights. Second element: depending on the time of the assimilated period, at the end or beginning of those 45 years, this will count differently. You only take as a criterion the fact that the person is working at that time. For example, if she started at 18, is she at work or unemployed at 63? It doesn't matter whether she was unemployed before or not. The treatment will be different for someone who may have been more unemployed than someone else, but before. That's not fair. There is discrimination according to the dates of the corresponding period. This is a step backwards from the rights of these people in the current situation. Our question is simple: why? It was possible to abolish the career unit without creating such discrimination. We are trying to convince you of this, in particular by giving you the opportunity to support our opinion by adopting our amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u70	Mr Spooren, you're turning around the pot a little bit. I asked you a fairly clear question. We can join in the fact that, if people work longer, they earn more: career unity. But the question here is: why not accept an amendment that states that it will be the less favourable years that will be subtracted, rather than the non-assimilated years? That is the question. So you're not punishing anyone. You always say you want to allow people who work more to earn more pension. Do it! We are not opposed to it. The question is: why should others be punished? I'll tell you what's behind it, from an ideological point of view. The minister will explain to us after all the exceptions and guarantees he intends to put in place or not. But as far as acquired rights are concerned, when all these workers decided to leave for pre-pension, that was not told to them. When it comes to Members' pensions, you say that they are acquired rights, that they cannot be affected, that they have not been announced, that they must be fair play. But as far as pre-pensioners are concerned, there is no problem with returning to acquired rights? So what does this double standard mean? I propose that those who have decided to take their pre-pension should not be harmed because of their partial lack of knowledge of the situation when they took this decision. It's basic from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u71	Mr President, there are several examples here, but the question is whether these examples can be compared. According to Mr Hedebouw, there is no problem in abolishing the unity of career for those who work. It's no problem to give them 46, 47 or 48 years. For those who do not work, for the bridge pensioners, ask you to use the best 45 years. I put the question to you in committee at the time, and I remember very well that this was a difficult time for you, whether those 45 best years would be combined with the abolition of the unity of career. You replied that you do not combine this with the abolition of the unity of career; only 45 years. Thus there is a different treatment, in the sense that for those who work the unity of career is abolished, while for those who do not work the unity of career is maintained. You must tell me how to explain constitutionally that this is not discrimination. This is inexplicable. Some fellow Members propose to combine the best 45 years with the abolition of the unity of career or, in other words, the 45 best years and an overview of the whole career. What is being done, ladies and gentlemen? Nothing! On the contrary, it will ensure that those who do not work still receive the same pension as those who do. That is the essence, that is the crux the opposition hits. She criticises what the Minister is doing, but when asked about her alternative, she does not get out. This is typical in the pension debate and in what has been said here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u72	My colleague, the answer to your argument is to remove the career unit for all. It's very simple. There will be no constitutional risk. And if the other formula had one, our amendments will require the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u73	My comrade Daerden brilliantly expressed the left's point of view on the subject. We even have to go further. Let us ask for the opinion of the Council of State! That's a good idea. It is proposed that similar periods be abolished. Why not just remove the worst years? The amendment is ready. When you say, Mr Van Quickenborne, that we were uncomfortable in committee, I conclude that we did not have the same committee. Your only ideological goal is to punish the pre-pensioners: money, money and nothing for the pre-pensioners!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u74	Mr President, the arguments have already been made. I actually wanted answers to Mr Van Quickenborne, but we agreed not to. I will reply in my speech to Mr Van Quickenborne's example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u75	Part of the answer has already been given, but I think it is really about making the comparison between a year that one works effectively and a year that one is in a similar period. There's the difference. In view of what is being done in that period after 45 years, the line is drawn there. Will that be for a number of people as in the example mentioned? Yes, but there will also be many more people who will build up more pension rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u76	Mr Spooren, I will repeat that example later. In the Minister's proposal, someone who has worked longer will have less pension than someone who has worked less time, because you are just putting that cesorship at 45 and because you are talking about the first 45 years. Anyone who started working before his 20th will get less than someone who started after his 20th. You must acknowledge that this does not make any sense. Someone who has worked for more years, I am not yet talking about the treated periods, and in this proposal, with this royal decree, will have less pension than someone who has worked for less time. You have to admit that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u77	If he's actually working for 47 years, he'll have more pension than he is now. Of course, because he'll be building up additional pension rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u78	It's not 47 and 45. I'm talking about someone who started working at 16 years and is in restructuring at 63, that's what this is about. Mr Spooren, that person will have worked for more years than the same person who started working on 20 years and is also in restructuring at 63. The last two years of the second person will be counted in full in his 45 years, while the first person, who has worked longer, will take the first 45 years and will have less pension. I don't understand why you won't admit it. Of course, someone who's worked 47 years will get more pension. And rightly so. But should there be another discrimination, which has nothing to do with the higher pension for whom 47 years worked? I do not understand that, especially since you say that you take the view that those who work for more years should also be rewarded for it. In the present draft law, this does not apply to people who are in restructuring at the end of their career and who started working before their 20th.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u79	Mrs. Temmerman, I won't be able to convince you. However, I would like to point out that there are also several transitional measures in the present draft law. For those who already have 45 career years on 1 September 2017, pensions will still be calculated in the old way. The same applies to those who have 45 career years before he or she is 60 years old, because those people also see their pension calculated in the old way. That does not alter the fact that in some cases you cite correct examples. Many people are covered by these exceptions. In addition, a lot of people will build up more pensions than was possible in the past. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to Mr Hedebouw's comment, as if this draft law had only budgetary objectives. I think that's a strange statement. If, as a result of a pension measure, rising expenditure can also be controlled in the near future or in the future, I honestly find that nothing wrong with it. It is also a duty of policy makers to control the rising costs. Mr Verherstraeten also referred to the increase in the cost of pensions. In 2018 alone, this increase will amount to EUR 1 billion. The reasons for this are positive, because we live longer quality, so I think we can all be satisfied with that, but it is realistic, in fact, given that pension expenditure is increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u80	Mr Spooren, I have no problem with a discussion on budgetary solutions. The political debate is about who will have to pay how much for pensioners. We are heading towards a tree of 30% pensioners of our population. Is it really a problem that we would give 15% of our domestic product to those 30% of the population? In some countries, e.g. Austria, pension expenditure already amounts to 15% of domestic product. It seems to me democraticly right that on the day we have 30 per cent of pensioners, we give them 15 per cent of our GDP. It is not because they are pensioners that they must become social waste. They have the right to receive their share of the cake, they have worked their whole lives for it. No, it's not a taboo to give 15% of gross domestic product. We're 10% now. You have to stop saying that it's natural to get people to work longer. No! If one day we started to live longer in our societies, it was because we decided to reduce the length of careers! Because health was better! Because we took time with our families! The fact of saying that it is obvious that we must work longer is the ideological taboo of all these right-wing parties! That's not true! The history of the world of work shows this: it is not obvious! Productivity has allowed us to reduce the length of careers, and that was right! This is social progress! You come with 19th-century ideas; "business is business"! We see that the rich are getting richer and that is not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to this is political madness. However, that is also characteristic of communism. All over the world, throughout history, there has not been any successful communist country. What does Mr Hedebouw say? I'll translate it into numbers. He wants to bring pension expenditure from 10% to 15% of GDP. This means that pension expenditure increases by EUR 20 billion. Now you must tell me how you find EUR 20 billion here in this country. Then don't come up with the myth that the rich will pay for it, because we already know that story. Twenty billion euros have been promised. That's communism. That's unlikely. Mr Hedebouw, you will continue to come forward with these kinds of unlikely promises, and you think that you will have credible opposition. Frankly, all the opposition parties that follow know where they end up: in the canyon. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u82	First point. I did not understand directly that Austria is a communist country. Bon, it could happen someday, but right now, it's not really the case. So 15% is equal to communism. There's a problem. France hasn't either. That is all ideological madness, but the concrete debate is about how we can guarantee funding. I'll give you a couple of pistes: the fight against fraud. Shall we start? Secondly, the millionaire stake. Get the money where it is. Because you have it easy, you just get it from the employees, just us, the employees. Our productivity: we produce more and more wealth in our society. Right or wrong? One or two percent more every year. Thirdly, that is important. It is a problem that will also be reduced afterwards. So we are talking about punctual 2030, what are we going to have to do? Our pensioners already have, ladies and gentlemen, among the lowest pensions in Europe. They will have even lower pensions in the future, especially those in the SWT. That's the problem. Because we're not equal in the face of death, Mr. Van Quickenborne. When you say that you must continue to work and extend careers, I remind you that the life expectancy of people who do not have a graduate degree is eight and a half years lower than that of those who have one. When you say that the retirement age is the same for everyone, 67, I would point out to you that those who have more money will still be able to live ten years quietly, while those who have worked under difficult conditions will die two or three years after their retirement. That is the injustice inflicted by the Liberals! The Communists are not the only ones to say it, but in any case we say it and we will put you back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u83	Mr Hedebouw, colleagues in the opposition, I believe that we share the analysis that our statutory pensions are too low, but also that this first pillar should be maintained and strengthened. This has already been demonstrated on several occasions. The solution to this is completely different. You, like the ABVV, want to get the money from the rich through a millionaire tax. In your opinion, the strongest shoulders should carry the heaviest loads. These are ideas that no one is opposed to, but they are already partly realized and partly unrealistic. Let me give you a few examples. If PricewaterhouseCoopers in his report yesterday indicates that the tax system for companies in Belgium is the second highest in the world, then this is a reality. These taxes may be reduced or raised for all I care, but one cannot deny that fact. In terms of personal taxes and social contributions, despite the tax shift, we are still among the champions in Europe, and even outside. The OECD stated in a report that Belgium has the second or third most redistributing system in the tax and social fields. There's been a lot of talk about a rich tax. In all PS governments it has not been possible to introduce this tax because it is not feasible without driving away the capital or hitting the middle class. Moreover, all studies show that higher social security contributions work for a piece of job-destructive work. This affects both people and the system of our social security. These are all elements that indicate that our system is already very redistributing. Even within the pension system, we have a rather strong solidarity mechanism. The link between what is being contributed and the pension payment has already been flattened. I also think it is right that there should be a degree of solidarity in this area. It cannot therefore be said that there is no solidarity, especially in comparison with other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u84	Mr President, I will try to be brief. It has not yet been discussed, but the report of the Pension Committee is very often screened by this government and the majority. Perhaps that report should also be reread when it comes to the financing of pensions. According to the report, the financing of pensions cannot in future come from employment alone. Today, employees and employers contribute to the financing of pensions and another part comes from the general funds. The pension committee says very clearly that there must also be a contribution of capital in the future. The pension committee is composed of different attitudes, certainly not just of socialists, as one sometimes thinks. That is not the case at all. Every political and philosophical approach is represented. At the time, I asked the chairman of the pension committee if there was much discussion about this. I assumed it had been a very difficult discussion. He said he didn't, he said it took five minutes because the evolution of wages has been steadily rising since the Second World War, while the evolution of wealth is rising much steeper. Where before the Second World War there was a parallel evolution between the increase in wages and the increase in wealth, that has grown apart after the Second World War. This led the pension committee to conclude that a part of the funds for the future should come from assets. Mr Van Quickenborne, you like to protect that the opposition only uses slogans. No, that's from the report. The report says that very clearly. For the future, if there is a problem, one should perhaps consider that aspect, which is one of the most important principles of the pension report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u85	With all sympathy, but social security is not only financed by social contributions. It is also financed by alternative financing, with income from other sources, including withholding tax. The withholding tax is a capital gain tax. Are we in agreement on that or not? This withholding tax has doubled over five or six years, from 15% to 30%, and part of it is used to finance social security. That's the essence. What the Pension Commission says in all its wisdom, this government does in all its wisdom. So I don't understand your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u86	Mr President, from the beginning, the majority members have had a selective reading of the pension experts' report, in which there is drinking and eating. They take what they're interested in. Mr. Van Quickenborne has just explained that today, our social security and, in particular, pensions are not only financed by workers' contributions, but also by alternative financing, which he considers perhaps a scandal. But you have to put everything in the balance! What is the amount of reductions in social contributions granted by different governments to enterprises? This amount amounts to tens of billions of euros. And, no doubt, these are important amounts. But alternative financing compensates for other measures that have too often been taken without aid for job creation. Today, we are indeed facing a challenge in terms of funding our social security system and, in particular, pensions. There are two ways to meet this challenge: either by generating additional resources because solidarity is considered important and at the end of each worker's career, each worker has the right to live in dignity, or, as you do, by reducing current and future interventions for people who have sometimes worked for a long time, by making differences between some workers and others. Indeed, with the system in question, there will be winners, but above all many losers, which is unbearable. As if the level of pensions today was satisfactory for those receiving the lowest pensions! I say "those," but I should say "those" because, again, it's the women, the workers you're going to touch. Having said that, I would like to say here that some of the comments made by Mr. Van Quickenborne and the N-VA in this rostrum are unbearable. Indeed, it is legitimate and necessary to have alternative financing of our pension system if we are to maintain a decent standard of living for all workers at the end of their careers. However, we are far from achieving this goal and you are working in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u87	We do not disagree on the fact that there should be some alternative funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u88	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u89	That's right. About a third, not of pensions but of all social security contributions, is already being fed up with other income.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u90	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u91	The pot is already being fed for a third by other revenues and that share is increasing. And that's good. It should not therefore be claimed that there is no such thing at all. You did not say that, but sometimes the impression is given. The solution we are proposing, apart from the fact that some of it is already financed by non-contributions, is to increase contributions and reduce benefits. There is a simple remedy for that, namely over a whole career viewed more years of effective working and contributing. This can be done by increasing the exit age. In this context, the government has already taken a number of measures, such as the most obvious measure, which is to slow down the retirement age and the age of early retirement, and to phase out the early retirement pension. These are all measures to increase the exit age. It is also necessary to examine what can happen during the career. In this context, a number of measures already exist in relation to the periods treated. There are also other measures, for example with regard to what can no longer be unlimited at the last wage. This is a measure which, as far as the unemployed are concerned, has already been partly introduced by the Di Rupo Government. The current government continues and even extends the measure. Numbers are always good. They can, of course, be used in all directions, although I believe that most of them are correct. One should also dare to include the figure with which the ABVV itself came out. According to the ABVV 28, the average career in Belgium includes effective years of work. Our calculations were even higher, namely at 32 years. However, this is still five years less than the average career in Austria. And if the whole population, or an entire generation, does not immediately work five years longer, but especially pays five years more contributions, then pensions can indeed be increased. Mr Hedebouw, proof has been provided that, as a percentage of our gross national product, we spend less on pensions than in Austria. However, if we take all social expenditure together, we spend more on percentage of our gross national product than Austria and many other countries. This is proof that we are faced with a lot of paid periods, other than pensions, such as unemployment, disease, long-term illness and thematic leave, i.e. periods in which we do not work. I am not in favour of it, but if we could tackle that problem in the future, that would be part of the solution. We would then be able to increase pensions, as is the case in Austria.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u92	You have already had a debate on the figures with my excellent comrade Kim De Witte. It is not the case that in Austria everyone works five years longer, it is an average. The big difference has to do with the question of how many people are at work. That's what it's about. That is why the average in Belgium is lower, but that does not mean that everyone in Austria works for five years longer. This way one can't read an average at all. The reason why people aren't working here is because there are no jobs. That's the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u93	I'm rounding up. Of all the solutions that I have listed and explained and with which this government wants to guarantee statutory pensions in the future and possibly to strengthen something, I hope, too, this bill is an important part. That is why my group fully supports the draft. I would like to thank the Minister for the long discussions we have had in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u94	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the philosophy behind pension reform is a greater match between the professional career and the amount of the pension. Who of you, ladies and gentlemen, could oppose such a measure? In principle, no one; but it was not so. I'll come back later. Such a reform can be understood and justified very easily. What would you say to a pensioner who has worked his whole life and receives a pension less than that of his neighbour who has worked for a number of years, but who then found himself unemployed without ever being able to return to work? "Totally unfair!" You'd think so. That is, in any case, what a very large majority of our fellow citizens think, and rightly so. It is precisely to combat this injustice that this bill has been submitted to us. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this reform - and I know that some of you do not appreciate it being regularly referred to - responds to one of the recommendations of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, known as the Vandenbroucke Commission. According to the regulations in force, the principle of limitation to the career unit considers that the career taken into account for the calculation of the pension may have a maximum of 14,040 full-time equivalent days. In the event that the career exceeds this threshold, the most advantageous days will be allocated without distinguishing between the days worked and assimilated. In other words, the least advantageous days are excluded from the calculation until the maximum number of days is respected. The reform proposed by Minister Bacquelaine aims to grant, for pensions which take place from January 1, 2019, and in the event of an exceedance of the unit, additional pension rights for actual working days. This means that those that exceed 14,040 days will no longer be deleted. Those who will continue to work after a full career will therefore be rewarded and will receive a higher pension - in comparison with the current regulations. Under this provision, and contrary to the legislation in force, pension rights will be granted for all periods worked, whether employed or self-employed. It is a matter of equity and social justice. The number of days worked in the public sector will be deducted from the total professional career of 14,040 days. Next, the days worked as an employed and self-employed person will be taken into account chronologically in order to determine the limit of 14,040 days. The draft law also removes the prohibition for beneficiaries of a full-time conventional pre-pension or an unemployment scheme with an enterprise supplement to take up their early retirement pension. There, it was not my surprise to hear some of my colleagues shouting at the contempt and scandal of the unemployed. I would like to put the points back on the i. It is true that, from now on, the days of unemployment in the second period and the days of pre-pension will, for pensions taking short on 1 January 2019, be calculated on the basis of the minimum annual duty and no longer on the basis of the last wage. It's a choice that the government takes. However, it should be recalled that this amendment continues the reforms initiated by the previous government, which included a number of current critics. It should be stressed that the reform of the calculation of pension rights in the second period of unemployment and in the pre-pension period provides for a series of exceptions. It does not apply to temporary unemployed persons, part-time workers, active unemployed persons, artists, port workers, pre-pensions granted before 1 January 2017, pre-pensions following medical restructuring or heavy work. But also workers who become unemployed from the age of 50. With this derogation, for the latter, only the third period of unemployment will generate pension rights on the basis of the annual minimum duty, except beyond the age of 55. A distinction must be made between those who are unemployed at the age of 35/40 and those who already have a full career. In the first case, we must make every effort to help them reintegrate professionally. In this respect, I fully agree with the Minister when he calls for consultation with the Regions, involving the National Labour Council, in order to put in place an effective activation policy for the over 50s. Those who are unemployed as they go beyond the career unit use methods of social engineering that we can no longer condone. That is precisely what the bill provides for. In any event, their situation is diametrically opposite and should therefore be treated differently. I therefore come to the impact of the reform. Once again, we had the opportunity to hear many inepties: "All pensioners will lose 140 euros of pension." Unions and opposition once again wanted to scare the population. I protest against these political practices, for two main reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u95	Mrs Galant, excuse me, but two members wish to speak. Mr Daerden has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u96	Mrs. Galant, so far you've read the law. We did not intervene because you decorated the law without judgment of value. On the other hand, your last comments are not acceptable. We never said that everyone would lose between 100 and 140 euros. We said that a number of workers would lose that amount at the time of their pension. Don't say anything! You mentioned a few things earlier. I will ask you the same question that Mr Spooren asked earlier. Do you find it normal for this career unit - which, I repeat, is a good thing - to be terminated in a differentiated way? Those who could benefit from the best 45 years like everyone else will experience a decline in their rights because only the first 45 years will be taken into account. Do you really find that normal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u97	Mr Hedebouw has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u98	Mrs Galant, I think we did not attend the same committee. We never said everyone was going to lose money. On the other hand, we heard the minister make it clear that no one would lose money as a result of these measures. Can you assure us that no one will lose money? You have taken the example of people who find it shameful not to earn more than others who are pre-pensioned. Have you found people who think that pre-pensioners have to earn less at all costs? What people want is a higher pension. I don't meet any of them. There may be some in the Liberals, in activists, and in young MRs. They may be very hot and want to take money from the pre-pensioners at all costs. But, overall, the people I meet do not want the pre-pensioners to receive lower pensions. On the other hand, they ask for a higher pension for themselves. Why don't you take a step that allows those who work longer to earn more and at the same time preserves the rights of pre-pensioned comrades and friends? Yes, that's how it is: they're comrades. I know it bothers the Liberals, but that's how it is! Why don't you preserve these rights for pre-pensioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u99	In the specific case of a period equal to five years of unemployment beyond the career unit, it is true that there will be a loss as a consequence, but it is a choice. If we do not take these years into account after 45 years, there is a consequence. In fact, we do not agree with the social engineering system. I come back to the example of the 140 euros lost. The examples taken were considered to be extreme cases among the examples given to us. One of the positive impacts of this reform is the fight against older people's poverty. Indeed, the more the person will work, the more pension rights they will be able to create. For example, on the basis of a median wage, a worker who decides to extend his career by two years will receive an additional pension of 52.98 euros gross per month. At the same time and always on the basis of a median wage, the failure to take into account a five-year period of unemployment beyond the career unit will result in a decrease of 67.55 euros per month. That's right. But I recall that we are here in a case of social engineering that we are fighting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u100	Mrs Galant, we're going to talk about social engineering because that's what he's going back to. I don't know if you've ever faced difficult months, but I can tell you that those pre-pensioners who are going to lose between 100 and 140 euros are not talking about social engineering! They're talking about how to get enough cash back to guarantee their end of career. The Finance Inspectorate is quite clear about this: 80 million on the one hand and 8 million on the other. It is a factor of 1 to 10, that is, 8 million more for all those who will be able to lengthen their careers and 80 million less for all those who will be punished! Can you confirm that ten times as many workers will be negatively affected by your measure compared to those who will benefit from it because they will have extended their careers? And finally, if possible, answer the questions because last time you didn't answer the questions! It's a debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u101	Mr President, I would like Mr Hedebouw to be polite in his remarks to colleagues who have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u102	Mr President, I would like to repeat a number of things because I hear elements that seem to me to be becoming more and more distant from the truth. Let's be clear! And that is the purpose of the project that we are voting on today. I would remind you that we are not voting today on the royal decree. What we are voting today is for people who previously, when they continued to work beyond the age of 45, continued to contribute without any benefit for their pension. From tomorrow, for those who will take their pension on January 1, 2018, those who will continue to work beyond the age of 45 will increase their pension entitlement. For example, someone who started working very young at the age of 18, and who works beyond the age of 63, will increase his pension. That's the goal we're pursuing. For an average salary, his pension will increase from 50 to 60 euros per month. Those who are unemployed at the end of their career or in pre-pension, i.e. in business income with additional unemployment, and who decide not to take their pension after 45 years of career, which is the norm today, and continue to receive unemployment benefits, would indeed have a little less, if they also intend to increase their pension rights. They receive unemployment benefits, while they could take their pension. Is it really abnormal that they have a little less? We are completely outside the system of solidarity. I'm so sorry. It is an accumulation of benefits of both unemployment and pension rights beyond 45 years to the detriment of the rest of society. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u103	Mrs. Galant, I'm not going to interrupt you for long. I would like you to specify the term "social engineering", which shockes my ear. Who are you targeting? Are you looking for employers who decide to disinvest our country, sometimes after taking advantage of extremely generous tax systems? Are you looking at the workers? I know tax engineering, I know what it costs the Belgian state. Who do you think is responsible for this social engineering? Do you think that it is the workers who are in a position to negotiate a pre-pension individually? Or, in your opinion, are the employers who are seeking this system so as not to assume their responsibilities to the end? Have you ever studied specific cases of pre-pensions? Are you sure that all workers who are in pre-pension do so by choice of heart gaiety? I would like you to specify the term "social engineering".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u104	People are at the end of their 45 years of career and therefore have the right to apply for their pension. There is no reason why they continue to receive unemployment benefits or to remain in the pre-pension scheme since they are at the end of their 45th birthday. We want to reward those who continue to work after their 45th birthday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u105	Mr President, I would like to interrupt for a moment in order to correct a number of things. Once again, there are a number of examples, Mrs Galant, in which people who have worked longer, I do not speak of unemployment and so on, get less pension than someone who has worked less for a long time. Let me give you a concrete example. It is less common today, but there are still people who have started working at 14 or 16 years. Take the example of someone who starts working at 16 years and has worked for 45 years; he is then 61 years old. He would have received SWT or bridge pension in the former system for four years and the last 45 years of his career would be taken into account. In the system you propose, it's the first 45 years. So if he's started at 16 years, he's gonna have made a lot less money than in his last years. You will agree with me on that. Next to that, put someone who started working at 20 years. Mr Van Quickenborne, these are two examples that are not taken from the sky, which are reality. They are two people who have spoken to me about this. For a person who has started working at age 20 and who has worked for 41 years, and who then becomes unemployed at age 61 through a reorganisation, while working for 41 years, the last 45 years will be counted. So he will have more pension than the one who started at 16 years and worked for 45 years. We think that is unfair. But no, it's not wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u106	I'm saying, Mrs. Temmerman's example is wrong. It obviously depends on the salary of the person, it's true. A person who has a higher salary, necessarily, will have higher pension rights. But between the one who worked 45 years, regardless of the age at which he started, and the one who worked 45 years later, including if he had similar periods in those 45 years, everything will depend on the salary of each other. There is not automatically a higher salary...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u107	...same salary, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u108	That's not true, then!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u109	This is not wrong, because we will calculate the first 45 years and when (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u110	Mrs Temmerman, you can have the floor if you ask!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u111	Minister, the minimum wage is calculated from the age of 21. Below this age, the minimum wage is reduced by x per cent. A worker who began his career at 16 years of age, from his sixteenth to twenty-first year, receives a wage below the minimum wage (from 21 years of age). Yet he worked, was courageous, got up early. These are often sectors where trades are particularly difficult. When he arrives at the end of his career, for example if he has been able to train and evolve in his career, he actually builds pension rights that make it possible to compensate for this lesser wage, which is iniquitous in itself. A worker is a worker, it is not because he is under 21 that he must be paid a wage below the minimum wage! We have wanted to change this rule for a long time. This worker hopes, as part of his career, to be able to build new rights. And then, at the end of his career, his company, sometimes made fortune, or for other reasons, decides to disinvest and agrees to extend his intervention as part of a pre-pension. Because you are talking about the unemployment benefit he receives, but there is also a business supplement and the payment of contributions by the company. And, during that time, we compensate for the first years worked below the minimum wage. That is why these years are important. And it is this category of workers who are covered by the royal decree, which you can say is not on the agenda today, but which is consubstantial of your project. It is this category of workers that you are busy sanctioning. Personally, I have no problem with giving more rights to those who work longer, but why take them away from others who are victims of the pre-pension situation? Indeed, you present pre-pension as Win for Life. For many sectors, this House has discussed company closures and solutions to empower employers in relation to their workers. This is pre-boarding!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u112	Mr President, I also wanted to say that there was no gender differentiation. The minister reminded us of this in our debates. Women's careers have more similar periods, but if the same periods are counted in addition, men have more periods than women with 14 years for men, compared with 11 years for women. Finally, taking into account only periods of unemployment and pre-pension, the duration is 6.58 years for men and 5.39 years for women. As you can see, women are no more affected than men. That's the opposite! What drives the coherence of this reform is the reaffirmation of the value of work. The government does not hide its ambition to strengthen the link between the work done and the amount of the pension. As a result of this reform, employees and self-employed persons will be granted pension rights for all periods worked. This reform is a new step towards an ambitious project imbued with the values of work and justice between the beneficiaries of pension schemes, of justice of workers among themselves and of justice between the present generation, past generations and future generations. For these reasons, the MR Group will vote in favour of the reform of Minister Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has already been so much discussion that I wonder if I should intervene, but I think it is important to add a few more points to this draft. This draft does indeed give rise to a great deal of discussion. It builds on the abolition of the unity of career as it existed in 2003. At that time we could easily talk about 45 years. Now we have to talk about 14 040 days, which ultimately represent the same thing as those 45 years. In this design, it was chosen to strengthen the link between work and retirement. You may also encounter people who want to continue working after their 45-year career. They contribute, but on the other hand they also build up additional pension rights. I also encounter people who retire after 45 years and then go to work further, pay contributions and find that the additional work does not pay a pension. Today we can tell those people that they can continue to work longer, that they do not have to take up their pension and that they can continue to build up their pension. Colleagues, it is indeed a profound change. I heard Mr Daerden say that he is pleased that in another way, albeit not as well as he himself would like, we are recovering the pension bonus. This is indeed a movement in which the extra work is valorized. Before, the discussion was about people for whom the calculation will be lower because a different method of calculation is being used than today. This does not relate to the periods treated as such during those 45 years, which are taken into account for the calculation of the pension. After 45 years, however, they are no longer taken. These are the situations of early retirement and unemployment. We have questions about this, and we would have preferred something else, namely a transitional period that would give room for those who are in the bridge pension scheme today and actually thought they would stay in the old system. At the moment we have no idea whether it is being taken care of. We would like to see that. We also think that for a person who has been unemployed for a number of years at the beginning of his career, of course within those 45 years, those years must be taken into account as equivalent years, but at a lower amount than before. If a person who has been unemployed for 45 years but has contributed for 45 years has never been ill for a day, has never been unemployed for a day, those periods do not count. I understand that this gives the feeling of great injustice. My question is whether this can live up to the principle of equality? I understand that this proves to be a great injustice. This also applies to time credits and other periods treated as such. When we were in the government together with the PS, people came to tell me that they had never taken up a day's time loan and that they were no longer able to take advantage of it by abolishing it. There too, we have had a painful situation with which we are also having a difficult time. For us, the question remains whether the concerns of people who are in a particular system and who had a different expectation are being taken into account. I know, Minister, that there is a provision that people who can retire early can leave the SWT system. Those people will be able to make the choice. The amount they receive in the SWT system may be higher than their pension amount. But they need to know that this will not lead to an increase in their pension. They may also choose to retire early, knowing that the pension amount is slightly lower than they expected. Minister, we hope that you will follow this up, that there will be no pressure on those people and that the possibility of SWT up to 65 years will be preserved. In this way, there is a transitional possibility. At the same time, I would also like to say that we must dare to look positively at this reform. The existing unit of career was not perfect either. I have heard complaints from people for whom the best years were included in the existing system of unity of career. However, it was automatically assumed that they had a more favourable scheme as an employee than as a self-employed person. I have come to say that this was not fair, because the years as an apprentice, as an employee, were taken, when they earned much less than in more favourable years as a self-employed person. But that was also flattened, which was also a system that was not fair in a number of areas. So one should not pretend that that is the best system. A second remark concerns the pension bonus. It was only granted at the time when people were working effectively. Today the equivalence remains even after 45 years for periods of illness. One can be sick and go back to work. It will also continue to exist for periods of time-credit if they were to be taken into account during that period. We must also dare to stress that we have managed to bring these equalitys out of the fire and that we can actually take them with us after the 45-year career. Finally, Minister, it is mainly because we want people to work longer and to be able to work longer. People say yes, but there has to be work. Fons Leroy was on the radio this morning, but I'm lucky he came to speak with us in the congregation as a result of a celebration. There he told the story that he regularly emphasizes: there is a lot of outflow today and tomorrow, between 2013 and 2019, the generation of the fifty-plussers. There will be at least 300 000 vacancies. At the same time, he called on employers and educational institutions to repeat them here to be open to skills and skills of also fifty-five and fifty-five-plus. That is not a reality today, and we must dare to recognise it. This often also makes it difficult to digest a number of things like this, where it is about an SWT or unemployment where there is no employment. This means extra work on education and lifelong learning. When we talk about pensions, this is something that we need to take with us: this depends on work. This should go hand in hand with the openness of employers to assess people's competences and to take them further into the careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u114	Mr President, Madam, in fact, I am glad to hear you because, in the end, you are saying the same thing as us. You welcome the abolition of the career unit, but you regret the discrimination it puts in place. You regret the decline in certain rights that the decree and the law put in place. So you confirm what we're saying. You say that you would have preferred things to happen differently, but that the situation is the result of a balance within the majority. I am therefore pleased to hear that the most social group in the majority regret this discriminatory measure. You say that you have been able to "punch" that certain assimilated periods are not affected. You therefore acknowledge that others are affected and that, in doing so, we are witnessing the beginning of the detrication of these assimilated periods.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u115	Mr President, Mrs Becq, I wish to take advantage of your presence and that you open the door for us to speak. At the first committee meeting on the bill under discussion today, I had highlighted the problem of those who started working very early and who have 45 years of career that, logically, should not be dealt with within the framework of the bill, but within the framework of the Royal Order. The work is therefore not finished. Mrs Becq, as you are in the gallery, allow me to plead with you, but also with the government's CD&V ministers, that, under the royal decree, a correction should be made to the assimilation component after the 45-year career. Indeed, from the moment when one wants to value the work and above all to value and reward the efforts, it is necessary to value those who started working very early, who have a career of at least 45 years because it would not make sense for them to be wronged at some point. I accept what you have said and I appeal to you again to intervene with the government to avoid this pitfall by adapting the Royal Decree, which is possible in view of the distribution of legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u116	Mr President, I would like to thank both speakers. I'd like to supplement it. We have also carried out reforms in this and in the previous legislature that are painful for people. One can follow principles and say that this is necessary for the future. It is known, however, that people are hurting at the same time. What we do want is to try to take maximum transitional measures. That's part of it. We are counting on the possibility of taking this with us. Finally, Minister, the unity of career. It is a question of having a career of 45 years, whether it is self-employed, as an employee or as an official. It'll be added together. I would like to draw your attention to a small other dossier, namely the creation of the minimum pension if you have been a civil servant, an employee or a self-employed person for a while. I believe that there are some gaps in that too, with the result that one does not touch his minimum career. When we talk about long-term careers, lower pensions and opportunities, this is also a draft that we really need to get approved within this legislature. I believe that it is also contained in the coalition agreement, and we expect it to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u117	Minister, the draft law we are discussing today is well known as the abolition of the unity of career. It sounds a bit technical, but it is actually about an important, if not the most important, principle in the regulation of pensions. The question is whether, as politicians, as a society, we are prepared to make work count more in pensions than non-work. Are we willing to give people who work more pension than people who don't work? That is the principle that we have debated. Ladies and gentlemen, the debates have taken a long time. Minister, this is becoming a tradition in our committee. There was a second reading, which was very fruitful. We've learned a lot. New questions have arisen. New examples were cited. Mr President, the second reading instrument is being used more and more often and I have the impression that as the elections get closer, they will ask for second readings to try to postpone drafts and not get them approved. It may be interesting to see what the results of a second reading are now. I am addressing the Greens, who are the authors of the second reading system in the sixth state reform. Actually, I'm disappointed. That didn't work out much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u118	Mr Van Quickenborne, with regard to second reading, I would like to remind you that it pre-existed on reform. Simply, it was going on in the Senate before.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u119	Ah! In the Senate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u120	I consider it useful to use a second reading for many texts which will affect the lives of thousands of our compatriots, in order to have a more extensive analysis over time. In this way, it is sometimes possible – even if the majority are not listening – to modify the texts during this process. It is a democratic principle that I will continue to support. I would like to tell you that this procedure is new in this House, but it is merely a continuation of a parliamentary tradition which seems to me quite democratic and which I thank you for defending in your capacity as chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u121	Colleagues, I'm just throwing it up here. I would like to ask the President whether draft legislation has already been substantially amended by a second reading. I see Mr Calvo nodding. I'm very curious. At least in our committee, she hasn't delivered anything yet. Just delay and repetition. That reminds me of FC The Champions. In the summer, they show those episodes again. Well, those second readings are exactly the same for us. Mr Gilkinet refers to the Senate. The benefits of the Senate are known to me. I have sat there myself and have always advocated abolishing the Senate, because it has absolutely no added value. But let me return to the subject. Colleagues, the question is whether we are prepared to include work in the pension rather than non-work. I asked that question in committee and everyone agreed to that principle. Even the communists said to agree to the principle that if one works, one should get more pension than if one does not work. If a communist supports something, then one must be vigilant, because it may end badly. I started the debate in committee and thought we had left well. We agreed on the principle and then it came down to putting it into practice. Besides, our people probably think the same thing. He also thinks, as far as she knows the finesses of our pension system, that someone who works gets more pension than someone who doesn't work. And with that I would like to begin my speech. We are in favour of the principle, but is it true that in our current pension system someone who works gets more pension than someone who doesn't work? I don't think that's true in most cases. Why not? Let me give you two examples. If someone in our country is unemployed for 30 years, he is entitled to a minimum pension as much as someone who has worked for 30 years. That is the reality in our country today. A person who has been unemployed for 30 years will receive the same pension as a person who has worked for 30 years. So someone who works doesn't have a pension more than someone who doesn't work. That is the reality. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u122	No. Not for the 50-plussers. You know that very well. The other example is the worker receiving a bridge pension as a result of restructuring. He's entitled to exactly the same pension as someone who works up to 65 years of age. The principle that those who work more receive more pension than those who do not work does not apply in many cases. I can give you other examples. Colleagues, the challenge of financing our pensions is not that employees or self-employed people pay too little social contributions, because even with the tax shift, social charges remain very high compared to the Netherlands and Germany. The Minister for Social Affairs lists the percentages in her policy paper: the employer's contribution is, at last, linear from 33% to 25%. That is a huge effort the government is making. In the Netherlands, however, the employers' social contribution is 11%, in Germany, 20%. It's much lower there than it is with us. The problem, therefore, is not that there are too few social contributions, but that one third of the pension mass is paid to pensioners for periods when they have not worked. A third of the pension mass goes there. We pay EUR 15 billion a year to pensioners for periods when they have not worked. Every year 15 billion euros! In certain cases, this is legitimate, for example in the case of persons who were ill or disabled, who have ever taken time credits or were on maternity leave. Then it is legitimate that the periods treated should also be reimbursed in the pension. In other cases, however, my group feels that this is far less obvious. Of course there must be solidarity; of course social rights must be built and no one must be put into poverty. But giving a worker over 50 years of age who has been unemployed for 30 years as much pension as a person who has worked his entire career defies any sense of justice. As long as we are not prepared, Minister, to tackle fundamentally the taboo of equivalences, the stories of the Carolines and the Virginies will continue to pop up. We can be outraged at the periods that have been treated as such, but something must also be done about them. With the present design we are taking a first cautious step in the right direction, because for the first time we limit the equivalence in time. We are setting a ceiling, as Mrs Becq said: not in the first 45 years, but after 45 years. In most European countries, the unemployment allowance is limited to two or three years, which means that equality is by definition also limited to three years. This is not the case with us, even after 30 or 40 years of unemployment benefit, because these people are also entitled to a minimum pension. Now we limit the equivalences in time, but only after forty-five years. Isn't that incredible? In my opinion, the average Fleming thinks that the equivalency after five years has been achieved, but in our country the equivalency still rises to forty-five years. The ordinary Fleming finds this incomprehensible, because it cannot be explained, but the opposition calls it fundamentally unjust. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition then comes forward with many examples to prove how harsh the federal government would be. That is how I remember the example Mrs Temmerman had found. It was based on the example where someone was unemployed for 40 years and then worked for seven years. Let me leave the plausibility of that example in the middle. Mrs Temmerman said that this person would now receive more pension than someone who has worked for forty-five years, because 40 years of unemployment plus seven years of work amounts to forty-seven years, so that person gets more than someone who has worked for forty-five years. Mrs Temmerman believes that it is impossible for someone who has been unemployed for 40 years to receive more pensions than someone who has worked for 45 years. Mrs Temmerman, I must tell you that your example is correct. The real problem, however, is that someone who has been unemployed for 40 years will also receive a 40-year pension. Of course, you do not dare to say anything about this, let alone change anything about it. You have given other examples, but I remember that example very well. You mentioned it at the committee meeting, but you did not come back to it, probably because some study warned you that an unemployment allowance of 40 years was still difficult to defend. I take another example, an example that was published today on page 4 in De Tijd, the quality newspaper of Flanders. I read it out: "With the new scheme, someone who started working at 16 and becomes unemployed at 59 years old gets a lower pension than someone who started at 21 and lost his job at 59." That is De Tijd's theorem, or the theorem of a trade union, I do not know whether it is the liberal trade union or any other organization on the basis of which the newspaper takes this bill under attack. Well, first of all, frankly, apples are compared with pears, but I will come back to that later. Secondly, the theorem doesn't even add up. And why not, Minister? Well, if someone starts working at 16, he will have 45 career years at 65, while for someone starting at 21, that will be only 44 career years. In other words, it may as well be that the first person who starts working at 16 gets more pension than the one who starts working at 21. One has 45 career years and the other only 44. So, the example doesn't add up. Moreover, the result, as you said, depends on the wage evolution, on how much someone earns. The reality is, of course, that a sixteen-year-old who starts working has less pay than a twenty-one-year-old. It is therefore normal that the person who starts working at 21 should receive more pension than the person who starts at 16. That's why apples are compared to pears. Mrs. Temmerman, you're talking about a 16-year-old and a 20-year-old. Start by comparing what can be compared. Let me give you the following example. Someone starts working at 16 and stops at 61. Someone else also starts at 16 but works until he's 65. Well, in today's reality, the first will enjoy the same pension as the second. Why? Because one looks at 45 career years and whether one is unemployed or not, one has the same pension. This will no longer be the case with the new system. A person who starts working at the age of 16 up to the age of 65 will receive a pension for 49 career years, while a person who works from the age of 16 to the age of 61 can only receive a pension for 45 career years. That is the difference we are introducing with this bill. We ensure that people who work more receive more pensions and that people who work less receive less pensions. These are the examples and the points of comparison to be looked at. Colleagues, the opposition has a problem with that. I want to engage in and continue to engage in this debate. The Minister is asked to find a compromise. The system used to run around the 45 best years and now the unity of career has been abolished, in other words 46 years, 47 years, 48 years. A compromise is called for, for example, by combining the 45 best years with the abolition of the unity of career. If you do that, nothing will change. One then takes the 45 best years and the union of careers is abolished, so one also looks at the other years. If the other years are than worked years, for example from 16 to 20 years old, then one gives the same amount of pension to that person as to someone who has worked his entire career. It's just there that we want to make a difference. Colleagues, the reality is that the opposition believes that a person who becomes unemployed in his 46th or 47th year or who goes on a bridge pension should also receive a pension. In fact, the opposition wants to increase the equivalences, but it does not dare to say that out loud, because if the Belgian knew this system, he would be outraged. He would ask himself how it is possible to defend that in Brussels. Moreover, this indignation has been expressed by the example of the two friends from Wallonia. Then people protested massively because the person who works receives the same pension as the person who does not work. People don't accept such injustice. With this bill, we will change that. This bill gives people a chance to get more pension if they work more than 45 years. Last week I was grabbed by a messenger in Parliament. The story of every day. Freddy, a sympathetic messenger in Parliament, came to me and colleague Jan Spooren and said that his wife had worked for a long time. I asked him how many years she had worked. Forty-nine years she had worked. I said it was a long time to 'turn off her pear' for 49 years, as they say in Flemish. So she had worked four years longer than necessary for her pension. Freddy asked me if that law would be passed anyway, because that new law would give his wife four years' extra pension. I asked Freddy how many years she had been unemployed. She'd been working every day! Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to this law, many people who have worked for more than 45 years will receive more pensions, such as Freddy's wife, who is sitting in the gallery. Finally, I'd say. Finally, that measure is being implemented. Colleagues, Mrs Temmerman, that is a real pension bonus and not a bonus as it used to be, where people got something if they worked longer than they did until their early retirement. That's like paying overtime to someone who works more than 30 hours. If he works more than 30 hours, he'll have overtime. That's not a bonus. After all, an employee is obliged to work 38 hours. Well, this measure is a real bonus. If you work for more than 45 years, you will also receive more pension. I'll talk about working effectively. That's what it takes now. Minister, this is a first cautious step. The question of equivalence has not been resolved. On the conclave of last summer, the government, in your capacity as Minister, instructed you to continue to work on the same periods in the future, in order to increase the difference between work and not work even more. Colleagues, the problem of the two Walloon friends is not solved, do not make any illusions. Work will have to be continued on such periods. Minister, your mission is not simple. You're running an uphill battle, as they say in English. Colleagues, it's easy to spend and give gifts to everyone. That's easy, and anyone can do it. We should not be in politics for that. In politics one has to sit down to reform with courage. If we want to preserve the monument to our pensions, for which we stand and which we support, then pensions must be permanently renewed. That way we can keep them. That is the task for which we stand. Minister, the principle that you also give people who work more pensions is a very noble principle and a principle that everyone here in Parliament should support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a great deal has already been said. I had prepared a whole account of the law itself, but everyone knows what it is about. So I'll skip that part. However, I would like to tell you, Mr Van Quickenborne, that in the two readings, no one from the opposition said that more work should not be rewarded with more retirement. No one said that. You are putting on a show here, as if we were trying to stop it, but that is absolutely wrong. We did not say that in the first committee, but we did not say that in the second. Nevertheless, I will give you some examples of some fundamental injustices, not so much in the law, but in the Royal Decree. You agreed, Minister, that we would deal with them in one package, because they are inextricably linked. What's this injustice in? People who started working before they were 20 are usually people who are low-skilled and therefore low-wage. As a result, they also have a low pension. They are usually also employed in places where heavy work has to be carried out. I talked to construction people this morning. They can hardly understand the consequence of this. I will come back to it later, but we are of course standing up for it. We are not opposed to abandoning the unity of career or more retirement for longer, but rather to a fundamental injustice, once again for those people who are already in a very difficult situation during their careers. Their pensions will now be taken from them. Mr Van Quickenborne, you always refer to my example. That's why I'll give it to you again. Someone who started working at the age of 16 and who works for 45 years will end up with this law and this KB less pension than someone who started working in the same company at the age of 20, who is also under restructuring at the age of 61 and who has worked for 41 years. One has worked for 45 years and is subject to restructuring. The other one worked for 41 years, but started at 20. The person who started working at 16 will have less pension than the person who started working at 20, despite having worked for more years, Mr. Van Quickenborne. I'm not talking about treated periods. This is because one takes exactly the first 45 years, from the age of 16, where he may have started with a minimum wage and sometimes falls under the minimum pension entitlement. That's where the injustice is. Especially since it is mostly low-skilled, low-wage workers who are now being punished with their pensions. Let me give you another example, which has already been mentioned here. It is also fundamentally unfair that someone who has been unemployed within his forty-five-year career will receive more pension than someone who becomes unemployed after 45 years of work and is not yet 65. Let me clarify this. Two people started working at 18. One has worked for 45 years, is then two years unemployed, and retires at 65. His pension is calculated on the first 45 years, from his 18th to his 63rd. The other person also started at 18, has been unemployed before his 63rd two separate years but is working again at 63, so after his 45 years: that person will get more pension than the other. Just because the cesorship is set on that forty-five-year career. They actually have the same career. They started at the same time, at the age of 18. They have both been unemployed for two years. Only one became unemployed after his 45 years, and the other during his 45 years. It is not normal, Minister, for these two people to receive different pensions. You think that's normal. I don't think that's normal. It's about identical careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u124	There is, of course, a difference: one has found work and has continued to work, the other has not worked. That is the reality. You say that we will solve this by maintaining, according to the opposition's proposal, the 45 best years. Right? You want us to listen to the opposition, that we take the 45 best years. Do you combine this with maintaining the unity of career? Or do you think that we should be equally consistent for the unity of career? Do you combine your alternative of the 45 best years while maintaining the unity of career or abolishing it? I'd like to know about you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u125	I will answer that immediately, but I would first like an answer to my question. I was first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u126	Master, I was first!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u127	The President gave me the floor. I asked this question four times: at first reading in committee, at second reading and now again. Let me give you the example of two people with identical careers and two years' unemployment: one gets more pensions than the other in this system. You think this is normal, but we don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u128	That is the system that we are actually introducing. I support that 100%, I defend that. I defended that, too. Point on the line. The examples you give are correct. I'm defending that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u129	What are you defending? The difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u130	Of course. I'm defending that. It's in the system, I won't deny it. But now I would like you to answer my question. You are saying that we are constructive from the opposition. It has been different once, but good, and our system is to take the 45 best years. Mr Daerden sees this as well. Those 45 best years are a better system. Okay, what if we do, do you combine that with maintaining the unity of career? Or are you saying you're abolishing the unit of career there?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u131	There too: a person who has worked for more than 45 years must receive more pension than a person who has worked for 45 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u132	So you're actually saying we're going to combine the 45 best years with the abolition of the unity of career.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u133	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u134	If you do that, nothing will change. Then you'll give the person who works as much pension as the person who doesn't work. That is the result of your reasoning, and that is precisely what we want to get rid of. That's the difference between our system and what you're proposing. Your proposal is to keep what's going on. We say: work rewards more than not work. That's the difference. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u135	Mr. Van Quickenborne, it's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u136	It's true!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u137	We all said here at the beginning that we all think that someone who works longer should also have more pension. There are injustices in this law and especially in the KB. Not only me and all the people of the opposition, but also Mrs Becq have referred to it. We must try to eliminate these injustices. Mr Van Quickenborne, it is easy for you to speak, because you are in a completely different position. You'd better go to the workplace more often. Really, I recommend this. I've done this a lot in the last few months. If one says here that one has to work longer and that one gets more pension, is the key question who can do that, Mr Van Quickenborne? Who is capable of working for more than 45 years? We're all here. And there will be many more. However, I have many examples, Mr Van Quickenborne, of people who have worked very hard, heavy physical labour, and who have now been destroyed. Mr Van Quickenborne, at the direction of their employer they are in the SWT, in the bridge pension. They tried first to see if they could do reduced work, if they could get to work elsewhere. They were over 50 and nowhere could they go, also because they had a small physical defect. You're saying this isn't true. Well, I invite you, come with me. Can I finish my reasoning first?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u138	Yes. Mr Hedebouw also wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u139	Mr President, my reasoning was not yet complete. Can't I just move on? Mr Van Quickenborne, it is those people who entered the SWT at that time for whom a calculation was made. It was calculated when they could retire and how much they would get if they stepped into the SWT. These people are being punished now, too. After all, a recalculation will be made and the first 45 years will be taken. They have, however, accepted the SWT, the bridge pension, under the conditions of "the law', as they were told, as the law at the time was "the previous law'. These people, again, who, in their lives, let us be honest, have done harder physical work than we all have here, those people are now being punished even more when they retire.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u140	I understand very well that someone who has worked hard... it is for this reason that we want to introduce the notion of penitibility. I think it's important to do that. We have not yet found a mechanism, but we not only hope that those who work for a long time will have a higher pension, but also that those who work hard will be able to leave earlier. That's the first thing. Secondly, the RCC cannot be a solution to incapacity for work. I do not agree with that principle. In fact, that's why we made a very clear difference between CCB and unemployment, on the one hand, and illness, disability and incapacity for work, on the other. These are two completely different notions. RCC cannot be a solution to the fact that a person is no longer able to work physically. If she is not physically or mentally able to work, then she is unable to work. We have retained the mechanism of assimilation for work incapacity and for illness-disability. We didn't touch that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u141	I know, but this isn't about the impossibility of working. This isn't about illness, either. It is about workers whose backs are no longer allowed to lift. They can do other work. Only they don't get to work anymore. In fact, you have not touched on the sick scheme, but it is not about those workers. It is about workers who are actually still able to work, but who are no longer able to work because of restructuring or because of the physical work they have done. I couldn't do heavy physical work today either, but can I still work? Absolutely, I can still work. A lot of these people don't get to work anymore. They have entered the SWT regime under the conditions in force at that time and now you will revise those conditions and will have fewer pensions for those concerned. If I may say one more thing, Mr Van Quickenborne and, of course, Mr Hedebouw will certainly want to replicate that. Mr Van Quickenborne, I will repeat what I said in committee. Even your colleague Alexander De Croo stated at the third reading that people who started working at the age of 14 have done particularly heavy physical work and are forced to go to SWT today, because they have not yet reached the age of 65 and cannot work physically after more than 45 years, should not suddenly lose a piece of pension. Mr De Croo also added that Mrs Becq said here that we should look closely at the effects of this measure. According to him, it was clear: for the government, workers who have worked a lot are over 45 years of age and who have paid a contribution to pensions, not those who have to be punished with a lower pension. Dixit de Croo, and that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u142	Mr President, I would like to agree with my colleague. The debate on pre-pensions is not secondary. According to the latest figures from the SPF Pensions, 40 per cent of men have a career of over 45 years and 20 per cent of women. In these 40 per cent of men, 80 per cent are pre-pensioned or unemployed. This shows that 80% of those who are in the case take a pre-pension or are unemployed because they can't. They are not thinking about how to continue working, they are worn out! This is something that the Liberals cannot understand: there is no equality before death and the end of careers in our societies. You die eight years ago, you have a healthy life of 15 to 20 years different. By taking so-called equal measures, one touches only one part of the population: the world of work that is worn out at the end of one's career, and not only by painful occupations! Why have there been so many testimonies? People think they've worked their whole lives, they're tired, they have their backs in pieces, they have their heart that doesn't work very well anymore. Our medical homes have done a study: 75% of patients over 55 years of age suffer from chronic structural diseases, certainly in workers' centres. What are they proposing to these people? We're punishing them! We agree that some people work longer and earn more money. But here, it's about the subtraction of years. Why avoid these years of pre-boarding? Simply subtract the less favourable years! Therefore, we do not propose to pay the 46th, 47th or 48th years to the pre-pensioner, we simply propose to keep the 45 best!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u143	The essence of the debate is whether we are prepared to valorize the 46th, 47th or 48th years of unemployment or with a bridge pension for retirement as well. The answer of this majority is no. The opposition's response is yes. Why is it yes? Because they want to combine the 45 best years with the abolition of the unity of career, as Mrs Temmerman said. So one looks at the whole career and takes the 45 best years. So those are the 45 best years that lean against the retirement age, combined with the years worked. Then the person taking a bridge pension in his 46th or 47th year will receive the same pension as a person who has worked throughout his career. And we don't want that. We do not believe that this is fair because work must produce more pension than non-work. Mr Hedebouw, your point is that you want the 46th or 47th year of unemployment to be included in the pension. That is a bridge too far for us and for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u144	Mr. Van Quickenborne, are you on purpose not to understand? I am surprised at you, because you are intelligent! Unless you're in bad faith. What do we say? We say that, for those who work, as provided for in the bill, there is the removal of the career unit; that an intermediate position would be to ensure that for others, those who no longer work and do not work at that time, the principle of substitution is retained. It's neither a 46th year, nor a 47th, but the best 45th, the best 44th year... It's very simple to understand! You say there may be a constitutional problem, but we have an amendment. Let us submit it to the Council of State! We're not going to repeat it 22 times anyway! Admit that this track is the best compromise possible. You're ready to admit it. And if there is a legal problem, let's submit it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u145	Mr President, I apologise for going into this, but it is good to explain this. I will work with Mrs Temmerman's example and then see where we come from. Mrs. Temmerman, you're talking about someone who starts working 16 years and works 61 years. So he's worked for 45 years, and then he's 4 years with SWT, until he's 65. Today we look into the system to calculate the pension for that person to the best 45 years, so 20 to 65 years, and in that period there is 4 years SWT. You say that the new system is not fair because it looks at the first 45 years, from 16 to 61 years. You will then say that the person concerned will receive a lower pension because the early years give less pension than the final years. That's right. I don't dispute that either, just to be clear. That's what I said. The alternative you are proposing is to look at the best 45 years, together with the abolition of the unity of career, because one cannot maintain the unity of career for one group and not for the other. We can't do that. Colleagues, listen carefully. The compromise system that the opposition puts forward takes the best 45 years, that is from 20 to 65 years. In combination with the abolition of the unit of career, this means that the person will receive a pension not only for those 20 to 65 years, but also for the years 16 to 20 years, because he also worked during that period. The result is that the pension for that person will be as high as for a person who has worked from 16 years to 65 years. That is what we think, and I do not think that is right. If you want to defend that, do so, but I do not think it is fair, because it must be 46th, 47th and 48th years of work and not other years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u146	Mr Van Quickenborne, we do not think it is right that someone who starts again at 16 and has worked for 45 years should receive less pension than someone who starts at 20 years and has only worked for 41 years. That is not fair in your system either. It is also not fair, Mr Hedebouw has just referred to the fact that people who start working early, who have done heavy work, do not live so long, that they live much less in good health than the others. You are a doctor, Minister, so you can confirm that. Here, for example, people who study up to the age of 25, who buy their years of study and then have a good job, with a high wage and therefore a high pension, and who will have worked for more than 45 years, get a very high pension. They may, of course, get that, but your arrangement is unfair in relation to the people who started at 16 or 18 years old and who do not meet all those conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u147	Mrs Temmerman, I fundamentally oppose the idea that the measure of 46 or 47 years would only be a measure for the elite, a word I do not wish to use, but that is what your statement tends to be. The measure would only apply to those who have studied a lot or who make a lot of money and drive an expensive car. You said those people would get more pension. I have just set the example of the wife of a messenger from Parliament, but that is not the person you are referring to. Many ordinary people in our society started working at the age of 16 and continued to work until the age of 65. Those people deserve honor and respect. Now, finally, give these people what they deserve: more retirement. That is what we want to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u148	Mr Van Quickenborne, you really are making it a caricature. I think that we honor these people much more than you do and that we also know them much better. Of course, those who work longer must receive more pensions; we have repeated this enough here. But you make a difference between those who began to work before and those who started to work after their 20th. That difference is great; that is a great injustice. Mr Van Quickenborne, I would like to invite you to the workplace, so that you can talk to people who are about to look for other jobs, since they are physically unable to cope with their current work. They can still work, but no longer carry out the specific work they have done for years. It is all too easy to demand that people have to have worked for 46 or 47 years; for some, this is no longer possible for a particular job. Those who have started working at a young age are punishing you with the royal decision you intend to introduce. Mr. Secretary, I'm a little worried. You have misunderstood my example, because you replied that you do not touch diseases. That's right. However, I just heard Mr Van Quickenborne say that what is now before us about the treated periods is only a beginning. Mr Van Quickenborne wants to go much further. The big question is what similar periods will all be eliminated. I would like to add, by the way, that the report of the Pension Committee clearly states that the periods treated must be maintained. Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to mention a few points relating to communication. Minister, you must do something about your communication. After all, no one knows where he or she is. For example, it was said that 50+ people are excluded, but they are only excluded from the first element of your draft law, namely the fact that the second period of unemployment will be offset by the minimum. However, they shall not be excluded from the account of the first 45 years. A lot of people don't know that. Do you remember the slideshow, which we have even seen twice, once on television and then here in Parliament? The Prime Minister himself put it on one of his slides, we have read it: "For people who exceed the unity of career with equivalent days, the current system for taking into account the most advantageous days is maintained." This was on one of the Prime Minister's slides. The communication to the workers must therefore be improved. Then I come to the transitional measures that Mrs Becq has asked for. In fact, there are no transitional measures. The trade unions have asked a question about this. The Council of State has also done so. The Council of State has said very explicitly that there is a problem there. In your reply, Minister, when it comes to the date of entry into force, you say that this was already known by the notifications of the Council of Ministers and that people are therefore supposed to know this. That is not the way to communicate with the outside world, with the workers. We must read the notifications of the Council of Ministers in order to know what is going on. You will agree with me that this is not serious. To those present in this hemisphere I ask who reads all the notifications of the Council of Ministers. Nobody. People tend to read the things they're interested in. In your speech, you say that people should know because it is in the notifications. That's really very close to the hair. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our position is clear. We welcome the fact that those who work longer than 45 years receive more pensions, but the Royal Decree contains a number of injustices, especially with regard to those who start working early, who have a long career, who have usually done hard work and who now, with retroactive effect and at the time they are already in SWT, will have to experience that their pension will be reduced. We have tabled a whole series of amendments, together with colleagues from the PS. Mrs Becq, you still have the opportunity to correct a number of things. We therefore hope that they will be approved and that this injustice will be eliminated. If this does not happen, Minister, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u149	Mr President, Minister, as every time we talk about pensions, it is a passionate debate with characteristics that follow all your ministerial action. Maybe you're proud of it, but I don't think there's anything to be happy about. First of all, there is a lack of respect for the cooperation of the historical partners in the construction of our pension system. You should not be reminded that the Management Committee of the National Pension Board has given a unanimous opinion, which you have not followed. We cannot rejoice in the sausageed treatment of the various reforms, but we retain a general perspective that I am trying to trace here. Nor can we rejoice at your ability to always highlight the potentially positive elements - and I will say this - in order to hide better, in your communication, who will be the losers and in what way our pension system will be, tomorrow, less equitable and, above all, how much more and more pensioners will be left in a situation of inability to have a dignified life. That we will never be able to accept as ecologists. Another permanent feature of how you work in relation to this challenge of future pension financing, a challenge that needs to be addressed by all of our colleagues, is that you systematically do so through savings rather than through the search for ways to finance an efficient and fair pension system. Often you also work through the removal of similar periods. In this way you continue the action of the previous government, but in this way you also affect the workers and especially the workers who are most dependent on the recognition of these assimilated periods during which, for reasons which the majority consider to be always voluntary, one did not work because one was ill, in a situation of unemployment, in a system of pre-pension or in other cases of figures, such as time credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u150	Mr Gilkinet, I repeat that periods of illness are not affected by the assimilated periods we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u151	I hope it's a commitment on your part not to touch it tomorrow, in addition to everything else! I'm glad to hear you say that. I listened very carefully to Mr. Van Quickenborne, with his big secateur. I take note. I don't think the Open Vld, in this case, should bring her back too much. I'm looking at the VRT, too. Minister, I conclude with my introduction. We are witnessing non-compliance with the social contract between workers and employers, which means that, at the end of the career, workers receive a pension. I will say this as other colleagues have said before me: we have no difficulty in ensuring that workers over 45 years of age are valued for the additional years worked, that they have 46/45ths of pension, 47 or 48/45ths, provided that social contributions are paid and that this obligation to work more does not become the norm. Of course, I don't trust this government. In the Social Affairs Committee, yesterday we analysed a text that extends flexi-jobs to pensioners. Tomorrow, if the system makes it necessary to work beyond 45 years in order to have a proper pension or if, at the end of the career, it is necessary to conclude a flexi-job in order to have a dignified life, I do not think that we will have created a society that correctly distributes the wealth produced in this country, that rewards our elders for their function and that is simply respectful of all its members. In order to make this clear, I said it in committee, and I repeat it here, and I will not accept, Mr Van Quickenborne, that you are deviating my remarks as you are doing with the words of the other colleagues: if you have to value the people who work, do you have to make the situation of others worse than it is today? We don't believe that. This is obviously the limit to your reasoning. I have seen your tweets valuing this text, Mr Bacquelaine, to say that those who work more will have more pension, but show intellectual honesty in explaining that others will lose!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u152	Why, in your system, with an average pension level as low as in Belgium, is it possible to ensure that some people will lose? Mrs. Galant, I apologize for interrupting you. That wasn't my intention. I did it calmly. You have used the expression "social engineering" on several occasions, and that shocked me. You know, I've worked a lot on tax engineering. We concluded the work of the Panama Papers Commission last Thursday. In tax matters, there are indeed specialists, especially when it comes to increasing profits, which are already high, so as not to pay the tax. I don't think we can qualify our country's pre-pension system as social engineering. Do you have in mind that pre-boarding is not an automatically accessible system? Rules govern access to a pre-pension. Employers are empowered. They have to pay additional contributions. You give the impression that the pre-pension system is, on the one hand, always chosen by the workers, and, on the other hand, extremely comfortable - as if it were the Win for Life. That is obviously not the case. Many workers are victims of business closures. When this is the case, colleagues from the region concerned, regardless of their party, including yours, come to the rostrum to call for measures to soften the shock and to find compensation for workers through the system of pre-pensions. Sometimes, pre-pension is the alternative to sickness and disability benefits that workers who are no longer able to take, especially in long careers that have been started very early, refuse to take. Employers are empowered. They also have an obligation to hire young workers to replace persons in pre-pension situations. It is a way of sharing work, so that fewer of our compatriots are in unemployment. Assimilating pre-pension to pure unemployment is an intellectual error, for all the reasons I have just mentioned: the replacement of the worker and the accountability of employers, both with regard to the pre-pension worker and with regard to our social security system, through the payment of contributions. This is really important. This is why, while ensuring that the years worked beyond the age of 45 do not pose a problem, it was necessary to protect this type of workers in pre-pension situations. The minister can tell me that this is not the text of the agenda. However, we know that an order is under discussion, in connection with this bill. We know that it is a debate within your majority, and that you have already made commitments to correct it. I hear that the CD&V is a little concerned - we are used to it - about what is going to happen in this context and that it would like to see clearer commitments on your part. Often, he is made vague promises and contented with them. We cannot do the same when it comes to workers who have started their careers before 21 years of age, who have received less than the minimum wage, who have worked in high-paid and low-paid sectors. This is why pre-pension years are important to them. Indeed, they can create a significant difference. Not a difference in luxury or extra comfort, but the difference between a dignified life where they can support themselves after working, and a life that is not. The problem with your text is not that it creates winners. Good if people have the health capital and the desire to work longer. The problem is that you have created losers and that you consider all people with incomplete careers guilty, without you analyzing their situation on a case-by-case basis. That is why we will not be able to approve you. The same applies to other pension reforms that you have imposed here. Mr. Van Quickenborne complains about the parliamentary procedure and the possibility of having a first, a second or even a third reading, as well as a real debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u153	Mr Gilkinet, you said that we penalized those with incomplete careers. Can you explain it? Indeed, this project only concerns what happens after 45 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u154	What does Mr. Van Quickenborne?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u155	Mr. Van Quickenborne did not ask for the floor, so he did not. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u156	Mr Minister, as I explained in committee, you are in the process of creating different statutes depending on the period of unemployment. You tell workers who are at the end of their career without having chosen it - their employer who has paid extra contributions and who has been obliged to hire a person for them - that they will receive a lower pension than others, simply because at the end of their career they have received a pre-pension. That's what we're denouncing here. In general, we denounce that after all the pension reforms that you have imposed, the situation in Belgium will see more Belgians whose income will not allow them to have a decent life. You create more inequalities between workers and an ever more unequal distribution of wealth. You are waiting for the social cohesion of this country and we cannot accept it. That is why we will not vote for your text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u157	Mr President, Minister, I have a brief question for you. There is talk of professional careers here. I do not know whether the next issue has already been discussed in the debate. I apologise for not being able to attend all of your committees. Many of us have been on duty and have been in the army or in the army. I was a member of the Navy. That was one of the most beautiful years of my life. I have to tell you the truth. I'm very happy about it, too. There were thirty guys in my port side who also participated. In what way will the service period be included in the new system or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u158	Mrs Fonck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u159	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u160	As the minister did not listen to the question, he cannot answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u161	Minister, I will repeat it in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u162	No, you don't have the floor. Minister, would you like to answer the question? No. I propose that we respect the order of the speakers. It's not the coffee shop! Mrs Fonck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u163	Mr. President, not on my head!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u164	Don't worry, Mrs. Fonck, I won't hurt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u165	You're making me lose my papers! Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I indicated in committee, we support the general principle of this bill and the philosophy behind it. Thus, we are in favour of abolishing the principle of career unity. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u166	Ah!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u167	I'm just repeating what I said in committee, minister, you know that. We are also in favour of encouraging work and rewarding efforts. On the other hand, we are bringing a nuance, which I have already expressed earlier. Indeed, we want every effort to be rewarded, not just some. As you know, minister, this bill must obviously be read in parallel with the bill. At this stage, perverse effects exist and have not yet been corrected. They can still be. For people who start their careers very early – at 15, 16 or 17 – and who continue for a very long time, for at least 45 years, recognize that the impact is very negative! Their number is not negligible. I admit that I myself was quite astonished when I discovered that several thousand people were involved. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u168	Isn't that fair? Yes, it was several thousand people who started working before the age of 18. For these people, and I'm talking about those whose career spans at least forty-five years, this project potentially has a perverse effect. I do not, and I do not even imagine the possibility, minister, that this text has been drafted with the intention of harming them. However, the impact is negative. Is there a problem? As there are private jokes, it is always very interesting to know the content, especially when the PS and MR have hilarious exchanges. I'm thinking, deep down, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u169	Go on, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u170	[[...]] The Chair: No, the president is not in a hurry, but he likes order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u171	Some may argue that those who have started working early, even if they have at least 45 years of career, only have to leave the pension. Recognize, Minister, that if you take a person who has a career path that includes, for example, three or four years of early-career unemployment and who then worked 45 years, that person will be rewarded for his efforts. I heard my colleague Sonja Becq. I know what I have said in committee and I continue to argue in this direction, because I think we cannot imagine every possible comparison since the realities are plural. At the same time, these situations are unique and I hope that we will all be able to recognize together that people who started working at 15, 16 or 17 years of age and who have extended a career of at least 45 years have made at least as much effort as in the previous example. Did you think about that when you made this bill? I don't know. The story won't tell. We can't always model every case. However, trade union organisations have highlighted these particular situations. Their field expertise allows them to take into account the case of people with long careers who have made real efforts throughout the career. So, Minister, given the perverse effects of this project, we will abstain. If we support the general philosophy, we call for the Royal Decree to make the necessary corrections for those who have started their work at a very young age and have a career of at least 45 years. I also draw your attention to the potential perverse effects on women who have had, during their career, a part-time period supplemented by an income guarantee allowance (AGR). I told you about it in committee. I know you answered me. I am not going to model, because I am not sure that all the examples are being measured. But I mean, it's worth the modelling exercise compared to women who, during their career, worked part-time. While there are sometimes selected part-timers, there are also mandatory part-timers. Those who benefit from an AGR, i.e. small basic incomes, are often women who continue to make significant efforts not only to become unemployed. The calculation of pension income for these women, with long careers, glorified by AGR, should not penalize them. We will do the exercise here, but we need to model more and not stop at the AGR rule. You have to be careful about it. Indeed, I fear unwanted perverse effects. These women's careers are, in my view, similar to those of those who start working early. This is about people who have made a lot of effort and have had a lot of courage in their professional careers. We want all efforts to be supported and recognized and rewarded. Pending clarification of this Royal Order, we will abstain from voting on this bill. I invite you to see this abstention as a signal to the government – and I heard what the CD&V said earlier – to get the government to correct and adapt the mechanisms via the Royal Decree so that the potential perverse effects resulting from several regulations and laws can be cancelled. Finally, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a more general comment on pension reform. This is not the first time that I have spoken on this subject, but I believe that the way in which this reform is carried out is particularly challenging since you are measuring it in successive layers. You will tell me that we cannot present all the legislation on the same day in Parliament. But that is obviously not what this is about. My wish is to have a coherent and comprehensive reform, including for major projects, with a view to ensuring readability and predictability for citizens. The construction site for point pensions, the construction site for penitentiaries, the construction site for part-time pensions will be added to this text, but also to all the texts that have already been voted on since the beginning of the legislature. And the question arises as to how you will deal with it. After following these texts one after the other, when we know that others will come, we have the feeling that you have given up a major reform, a reform designed to upset pensions in the right direction, to support them in the future, to restore a balance, to restore more justice, and that you have preferred to take a succession of steps to make it appear that you are carrying out reforms. But, in reality, the major pension reform projects remain pending.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u172	These major issues are not answered in these texts. An example that I repeat often and which I will repeat again today: the consequence of your reforms is now and above all a communication vessel towards long-term diseases. Both with regard to the persons concerned, on the motivation to extend careers and to avoid early departures at work, to increase the average age of retirement, also on the whole aspect of career adjustment and ultimately to achieve efficiency on the sustainability of the pension system, on all these subjects, we remain on hold. You will have understood, minister, for all these reasons, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u173	Minister, I am not going to repeat all the arguments that have already been made. We obviously agree with the principle that we can receive more pensions because we work longer. I will, however, bring a little nuance. You say it's a matter of freedom, choice. Many citizens have had the opportunity to visit mypension.be this week. Your ears must have whistled a lot because people saw that they weren't going to touch much. When the website mypension.be announces that you will receive 1,200 euros, while the nursing home costs 1,500, and the minister tells you that the only way to get 1,500 euros is to work a 46th, 47th, 48th, 49th or 50th year, I do not call it freedom! I call it putting people back on the wall! We put them back on the wall so they can pay for their rest home! Moreover, you have not yet integrated all your reforms into mypension.be. We wondered how you were going to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u174	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u175	Mr. President, there's some noise in the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u176	Too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u177	It's the CD&V! It is an antisocial law that he will be obliged to vote and it makes him uncomfortable! Mr Minister, today the debate is very practical and ideological. Both are mixed. As I said today, we are not equal in the face of death. That is a very important point for me. Official measures are proposed here where everyone is equal, but that is not true. The pension service is very clear on this: 40% of men have a career of more than 45 years, compared with 20% of women; 80% of men are on a bridge pension, because they have worked their whole lives and are now tired of work. They are not in functions where one can simply work. They've been busted. Bridge pensioners are not profiteers, Minister. Bridge pensioners, Mr. Van Quickenborne, aren't just people sitting around doing nothing. Bridge pensioners are people who are tired and who are the only way out to stop at the end of their career a few years earlier. The question today is not whether we all agree to increase the pensions of those who continue to work. Everyone agrees to that. But why do people with a bridge pension need to be sanctioned? That's the question! We already have the lowest pensions in Europe. That is the fundamental question. When you tell us that people will make more money, the Finance Inspectorate is clear. The question is whether workers will earn or lose money in the budget. The Inspectorate is very clear: 8 million will be earmarked for those who will work more and 80 million for the sanctions against the pre-pensioners who are present here tonight in the gallery. Your measure is very clear: you take money from the workers. That is why, as a left-wing party, we cannot agree with this type of measure. Stop saying, "Yes, Mr. Vandenbroucke this, Vandenbroucke that." But we are not Vandenbroucke! We form another left. Set this with the sp.a! That has nothing to do with us. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u178	I do not know if, coming from a Liberal, it is a good qualifier, but I will pass on to Mr Vandenbroucke that the Open Vld thinks he is responsible. We don't want people like these! We do not want such a responsibility. What we need today are people who dare to say clearly what it is about. We are proposing an amendment which, of course, abolishes the unity of career, which states that a 45th, 46th or 47th year is not a problem, but also that the years that are being abolished are the least favourable years. That's what it's about. Then there's a status quo for all the people with a bridge pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u179	Mr Hedebouw, Mr Penris wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u180	Mr Hedebouw, you know as well as I do that there are newcomers in our society who attract more and have more income than our pensioners. What is your party's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u181	Mrs. Temmerman also wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u182	Mr Hedebouw, I would like to make a small correction on the pension report. That is not Vandenbroucke's report, but the pension committee, in which there were different attitudes. However, the pension report makes it very clear that the periods treated must be maintained and not what is happening here, namely that they should be abolished. They must be preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u183	Mr President, I will reply. The question of the Flemish Interest is again typical. Mr Penris, you are creating an attack on all working classes, regardless of whether they are newcomers or not. You're making a global attack on everyone. You're just pointing out again: divide and conquer. That's obvious to me. Do you really think that all those involved, who come from Turkey, Italy or Spain and have worked their whole lives, are not affected by the measure? They're all affected. That's the unity we're going to need. I am not busy here with the Vlaams Belang, but it allows me to say something else, namely that to make you back, Minister, we will continue the fight. Because people are angry. This anger will not be divided by extreme right ideologies, nor by everyone for themselves, as the Open Vld says. No. We're going to keep fighting for our pensions. We make it clear that it is not a scandal that 30% of the population who will be pensioned in 2030 will have 15% of our cake, that is, half their demographic weight. That is the question before us, ladies and gentlemen. And we believe that our society can give it. Let's stop trying to punish those people who worked! These are workers who have 'paved through' for our prosperity; workers who have started working early, workers who have worked hard for our prosperity. Well, they are now being punished for being bridge-retired at the end of their career. It can't be! Of course, Minister, we will not vote against the bill alone. In addition, and we will study your royal orders very closely, this is clearly a breach of contract. The people who had decided to leave for pre-board were not aware of the measures you were planning to take. If there is a breach of contract, the PTB will go to the Constitutional Court. And there is clearly a breach of contract. Mr Minister, we will therefore vote against your measure today. You can count on us to go to the Constitutional Court. We will continue the struggle of the workers. We will continue to mobilize to regain our right to a dignified pension that the working world has built and that you are trying to deconstruct. Minister, we will continue the fight! [[Applause in the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u184	According to the Rules of Procedure, the public in the gallery is not expected to show approval or disapproval. Are any other members asking for the floor in the general discussion? [[No]] The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that you are being proposed today subscribes to the government's ambition to strengthen the link between the career that has been achieved and the amount of pension. As a result of the reform and contrary to current legislation, pension rights will be granted for all periods worked, regardless of whether they are employed or self-employed. The proposed reform aims at the granting of supplementary pension rights for days actually worked for pensions starting from 1 January 2019, and in the event of a breach of the unit. This means that the working days above 14 030 days will no longer be excluded. Anyone who continues to work after a full career will therefore be rewarded and will receive a higher pension amount compared to the current legislation. In addition, the draft law for the beneficiaries of a full-time conventional bridge pension or an unemployment scheme with an occupational supplement abolishes the prohibition of their early retirement pension. I would like to return to a number of elements of the debate as well as to all the examples provided. When, for example, one communicates, one can always find extreme cases of people with a salary well above the wage ceiling, who earn 75 or 80,000 euros per month; if one calculates on the basis of the wage ceiling of 54 000 euros, this makes immediately more important figures. These people have the highest pensions. If you take an average salary, the situation is different. It is true that some will lose 13.50 euros gross per month per year of unemployment or pre-pension beyond the 45-year-old career. That's right. I accept it, it's the truth. On the other hand, all those who will work more than 45 years of career will see their pension increase. I take the same example of people with the same salary (the median wage) who account for two years of actual work beyond the career unit. As a result of the reform, they will see their pension increase by €635 per year, i.e. €52.98 per month. This is the effect of the measure if two examples of the same average wages are taken, which is a correct comparison. Because if you compare a high wage above the salary ceiling with the benefit of someone who has a minimum wage then of course, the comparison becomes lame and does not allow you to get an idea of the situation. I would add that transitional measures have been provided for under the Royal Decree. There are three of them. First of all, I would like to point out that for all other assimilated periods (illness, credit, disability, maternity leave – the latter being rather rare at the end of a career), the current rules on career unity remain applicable. We don't touch it. This is the first exceptional measure. The second transitional measure provided for in the draft royal decree is that all persons whose career reaches 14,040 days before September 1, 2017, who therefore have 45 years of career, are not affected by this limitation of assimilation. All those who already have 45 years of career and who were unemployed or in pre-pension before September 1, 2017 are not affected by the measure. They keep assimilations, as before, and they can count the best 45 years, including periods of unemployment and pre-pension. We have forgotten to report it, but I think it is important to recall it today. An exception is also provided for persons who have started working very early and have a career of 14,040 days before they qualify for early retirement. This includes those who started at 14 years of age. They can continue to benefit from taking into account their years of pre-pension or unemployment, since they started very early and are not in a position to take up a pension immediately. They don't have the free choice to take the pension. These are the transitional measures that I wanted to recall today. That being said, I would like to go back to what Mrs Fonck said earlier by extending the debate a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u186	On the basis of what you have just explained in the transitional or special measures, I would like to know whether I have understood correctly. If we talk about someone who's sick, you say he's not concerned or affected. I'll take two situations. In the first situation, he works ten years. He's sick for ten years. He's working again for 28 years, until he gets to the legal pension. He is therefore 48 years old and is able to obtain pension rights. If, on the other hand, he works 38 years and then he is sick for ten years at the end of his career, he will have only 45 years that will count for his pension rights. Do we agree? You confirm my interpretation. Thus, periods assimilated according to the time when they fall do not have the same value. Is that right? Even when you're sick?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u187	When you're sick, you keep the best years to calculate your pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u188	That was my second question. You keep the best years for your pension when you're sick. Compared to our committee chairman's earlier intervention that it was unconstitutional, that it was technically impossible, what we can do for sick people, we could do for others, for example for pre-pensioners. It's only a choice. This is not a constitutional problem. It's just a choice. I wanted to make sure I understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u189	Colleagues, I didn't say anything else. This is a political choice. Mr Daerden, as a result of your political choice, people who are in retirement or unemployment in their 46th, 47th or 48th years will receive the same pension as those who have worked during those years. In other words, this is a political choice, but it is not our choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u190	We talked earlier about alternative financing. I am sensitive to this argument because it is important for general solidarity to participate in the pension system. This is the case today: since 2003, pension contributions do not allow full pension rights to be paid. Since 2003, the two curves have diverged gradually and sharply. Contributions have increased by half compared to the increase in pension expenditures. Foremostly, alternative financing and a number of tax revenues - VAT, excises - are used to finance social security, including the pension system. We have been criticized for the fact that, with the measures we are taking, we are further reducing social contributions. It is true that with the tax shift, we are reducing social contributions and we are very happy to do so. Indeed, thanks to this - this is what will always be opposed to socialists and Marxists - we generate social contributions through employment and activity. [[Brouhahaha]] That is true, it will always be against us! If one opts for the constant need to increase tax revenues and social security contributions, the economy is prevented from creating new jobs and thus creating the capacity to generate social contributions and income tax revenues through the jobs created. That is the government's goal. And that's what we've been doing since the beginning of this legislature. There is no mistake: job creation has been major for the last two years and this is the result of government policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u191	Mr Bacquelaine, you venture on a very slippery terrain for yourself. We will have an opportunity to discuss this again during the discussions on the budget. The jobs you create are mostly part-time or subsidized or pre-carried. I refer you to our exchanges, you were unable to prove otherwise. We pulled the numbers out of you. Do you want alternative financing? Fight against tax havens rather than giving gifts to the FEB, the employers, the diamond industry! Even your tax regularization doesn't pay anything! This is your government's failure. Even when you give gifts, you hurt them, that's to say! Stop your budget DIY, stop your austerity economic policy! This is what is melting social security! The only result is that you're going to look in the workers' pocket. Just the index jump is 12.5 billion puncture on wages! That is the record of your government! You are the fosseurs of social security!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u192	Mr Laaouej, in terms of populism, in terms of vocalisation, in terms of socialist doctrine, your problem is that you will always be below Mr Hedebouw!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u193	Since the beginning of the legislature – it's been three years – you've been swallowing the snakes of your N-VA partner, who wipes his feet on you like we wipe on a doormat. There's the truth. Don't give a lesson in knowing who's being taped to when you see the way you're constantly capitulating in front of your N-VA boss on all the files! If I were you, I'd show a little more modesty!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u194	Mr. Laaouej, I've never said that you've been taped to the PTB. You're just her honey – that's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u195	Mr Bacquelaine, you are unable to answer the questions you are asked and to take on your political choices. You've been doing diversions for at least five minutes. Go back to your file and try to convince anyone you can. In any case, one thing is certain: we will not adhere to the way in which you defy social security! Let's be clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u196	Mr Laaouej, I have not heard a question. That is also the problem of the opposition at present: you are saying a number of things, but you are not proposing anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u197	What about the amendments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u198	I did not hear you during the debate. Any amendments to a royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u199	We can put them in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u200	Even when it comes to legislating, there is a serious problem. Mr President, the objectives of all the reforms we are undertaking in terms of pensions remain the same and are based on a three-digit finding that I have not heard mentioned today. I will introduce him very briefly. First of all, the average length of career in our country is thirty-two years, whereas it is thirty-five years in Europe. So we have a gap of three. Secondly, the average age of exit from the labour market in Belgium is 60 years. The European and OECD average is sixty-three years. Finally, the employment rate for the 60- to 64-year-olds in our country is 29 per cent, compared with 47 per cent in the OECD average. That's a fact. Therefore, we must work to identify these indicators. We are working on this through the projects that we have been submitting to Parliament for three years now. Our goal is to be able to support a decent standard of living, so that the entire population works for a number of years that is simply necessary for prosperity. That's what we do. Through all the proposals we make, we guarantee the payment of pensions, which is still a major objective. We are gradually harmonizing the different regimes, which is necessary because of the sociology of today's work. We are fighting poverty. The minimum pension has rarely increased so significantly. I recall: 150 euros per month for the self-employed and 90 euros per month for the employees. This is more for the last three years than for the previous three years of government. It's a reality, whether you want it or not. We also generalize the second pillar, not by ideology or by contrast with the first pillar. That's not the point. We simply do so to ensure a standard of living for pensioners who remain more in line with the standard of living they enjoyed while working. We want to spread the risks of the system between distribution and capitalization. It is important to do so. It is also the right of every worker to have access to a supplementary pension. That is also true in the context of the joint pension and the second pillar for contract workers, which we are talking about in the committees today. Our last major objective is the bill that we are presenting to you today. We want to strengthen the link between work and pension. It is about the good health of a society. The value of "work" remains of major importance. I know your vision is sometimes somewhat miserabilistic. For you, unemployment and pre-pensions are inevitable; things will always be like that. That's not our vision of things. Moreover, when the government approved the draft royal decree you mentioned today, it associated the approval of this draft royal decree with the need to strengthen the consultation with the Regions. The aim was to ensure that access to work and the possibility of creating jobs for older people in that country were possible. We think it's possible. But of course, if you have decided once and for all that this was not possible, the debate is taking another turn. However, I think it is important to work in this framework. These proposals, as a whole, with their six main objectives, are of course compatible with the point pension system, which makes it possible to achieve the synthesis of these objectives. I wanted to recall these elements because it is always good to put pension projects back together and in a global view. That's what we do every time. The project that we submit to you today makes it possible to value the work and strengthen the link between work and pension. It ensures that those who work more in that country are rewarded, particularly in the context of pensions. I think that this objective is commendable. I invite you all to think about it. It is our responsibility to a healthy society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u201	Mr President, we are not going to repeat the debate. I would just like to react on two points that I cannot accept. Mr Minister, first of all, you say that the cases we have presented to you are extreme cases. No, they're just real cases. There's some in the room. Nor can I accept that you say that it is the fault of the workers if the employment rate of our seniors is lower than the European average or that the results are lower in terms of pre-pensions or of the elderly unemployed. It is also the fault of companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u202	Minister, I would like to make two more comments. Firstly, I would like to invite you, together with Mr Van Quickenborne, to people who are currently working at a number of companies. The examples we have given have not been taken out of the blue at all. These examples are simply reality, but a reality that you apparently do not know. Secondly, Minister, I asked you to communicate correctly. You say that people who are unemployed for five years at the end of their careers lose only EUR 13 per month. In committee, you said the same thing. I also said at the time that this account is wrong. For the report, I would like to correct that bill. You're assuming the wrong median. You are assuming EUR 36 000. The median is currently 43 000 euros, because you also have to count the holiday money. You didn't. If you then make the account, you will not get 13 euros but 21 euros. You have to do that EUR 21 times five, because it is about five years of unemployment. So you also have to do the 13 euros times five, or better 21 euros times five. One loses 100 euros a month and not 13 euros. For a second time, Minister, a correction of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u203	Would colleagues like to reply? Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u204	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, you value the fact that we did not receive equal days in the event of maternity leave, sick leave, etc. All that would be missing! I am astonished to hear you present this in order to make us believe that you have made a phenomenal effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u205	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u206	I don't think I mentioned...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u207	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u208	Are specific measures and transitional measures taken? Yes! I repeat what I said earlier. In my view, they are insufficient in terms of the situation of people who have made very significant efforts throughout their professional career and over long periods of time. This issue must indeed be resolved in the Royal Decree. I therefore hope, minister, that the majority will be paying particular attention, effective and useful attention so that the Royal Order corrects the perverse effects of the bill under consideration not to value certain efforts, but all efforts and that those who have worked for a long time, regardless of the evolution of their careers, can be recognized and valued in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u209	Mr President, Minister, the technical debate on the current project has taken place. But two elements of your reply shocked me. The first concerns the situation of pre-pensioned workers. With the majority as a whole, you seem to consider that every pre-pensioned worker is by choice and that their situation is extremely comfortable. You clearly ignore the reality of the men and women facing the closure of their businesses. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the closure of companies is the subject of reactions from all members of this assembly, including members of its party, who demand conditions of exit that are honourable for the workers concerned who are sometimes in a state of exhaustion. We are not equal at work, because we have different health capital and because some jobs are heavier than others. You have, moreover, committed yourself to making a reform aimed at taking account of this penitibility. I do not like this term, because there are formidable jobs that are heavy and that are not really painful. There is no such thing as taking into account the workload. You consider that all people benefit from the system and do social engineering. I can't accept it. As regards your assessment of the insufficient employment rate in Belgium, I agree that it should be increased. Alternative financing must be provided. In that regard, you disagree. These are the two answers to the issue of pensions for tomorrow. The problem is that you put the responsibility for the lack of jobs solely on the workers. What are the government's business requirements for older workers? They are the first not to hire them or to ask them to leave. What are your proposals for career adjustment at the end of your career so that you can remain active longer under conditions adjusted to the capacity of the workers, with tandem planning mechanisms? What is the conditionality of the public aid you give to businesses? The latest known figure is a little bit old: €15 billion has been allocated to businesses in the context of reductions in social contributions or taxes. What are the conditions for benefiting from this aid in terms of job creation? All you are proposing are flexi-jobs that do not generate social contributions and do not increase the employment rate. Your only hope - and the Ecolo-Green Group is considering working together - is a vast investment plan. We have made proposals. I refute your remarks, that we would be without proposals. We need to invest in tomorrow's jobs, put in place approaches that will create more jobs. But you can press the workers as long and as hard as you want, you will not create any jobs, but simply make life even more difficult for people whose situation is truly dramatic and for whom it is normal and even logical, from a useful economic point of view, that solidarity works.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u210	Mr President, we are not going to start the whole debate again in reply. I think what we can get out of it is that technically, legally, there would have been no problem in giving people the opportunity to earn more if they continued their careers, while maintaining a status quo for pre-pensioners. You have tried to say that this is not possible, but the debate has clearly shown that it is possible. It is a conscious political decision to want to punish pre-pensioners in the logic of valuing work. I think we need to give people the opportunity to continue working longer. But they won't be happier because all the others are punished. It's really completely wrong. When the minister approaches a set of figures, he takes the figures that suit him. I do not understand why he did not mention, for example, Belgium's productivity figures in Europe. We have one of the most productive economies in Europe. This productivity has a cost. She certainly pays at the end of her career. The minister did not take the replacement rate for our pensions. He could also have noticed that we are not really high in the rankings. I believe that this debate is oriented, ideological and aims to make workers feel guilty and to attack this cathedral built by workers: social security. You Liberals want to attack this. I really hope, and I will conclude with that, that in the weeks, months and years to come, we will continue the fight, as we led the fight to set it up. It is not you, the Liberals, who have set up this social security. That seems clear to me. [[Brouhahaha]] No, really not! And it's not for nothing. Historically, you are in this logic... it hurts, but it's history! You didn't build that social security. Your idea was that everyone could manage themselves to secure their future. That's right! It is under the pressure of the popular movement, under the pressure of the fight that you have been forced to yield things that you want to take back from us today. The current situation in Europe has reversed the balance of forces, but I am convinced that in the weeks, months, years to come we will reverse this balance of forces and reduce these anti-social measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u211	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u212	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2676/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2676/6) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in draft law amending various provisions concerning pension schemes for employed and self-employed persons, as regards the principle of the unity of career and the early retirement pension." The Court of First Instance held that, as regards the principle of the unity of career and the early retirement pension, the Court of Justice of the European Communities had jurisdiction to rule on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards the principle of equal treatment for men and women and the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal treatment for men and women and to equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal treatment for men and women and to equal treatment for men and women in matters relating to equal The draft law has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u213	· 1 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 9 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 17 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) [[·]] 27 - Raoul Hedebouw (2676/7) [[·]] 28 - Raoul Hedebouw (2676/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u214	· 25 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u215	· 2 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 10 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 18 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u216	· 3 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 11 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 19 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u217	· 4 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 12 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 20 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u218	· 5 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 13 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 21 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u219	· 6 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 14 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 22 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u220	· 7 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 15 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 23 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u221	· 8 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 16 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) · 24 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2676/7) Chapter 3/1 (n) - Art. 12/1(n) [[·]] 26 - Georges Gilkinet cs (2676/7) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u222	Held: the vote on the amendments and Articles 3, 5 to 8, 10 to 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u223	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 4, 9, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-23-54-plenair-ip198x.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but the recording system of the sitting must now be reset. That'll take ten minutes. We will therefore resume work at 7:54 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 November 2017 at 7.54 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, November 23, 2017 at 19.5 p.m.
