ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, a university study shows that our country counted over 500 000 bogus self-employed people last year. This would involve 427 600 people who are in the main occupation of bogus self-employed, an increase of 14% over the last ten years. There would also be some 104 000 people who were falsely self-employed in the secondary profession. In recent years, it has been found that fraudsters are increasingly unrighteously registering persons in the self-employed status or making them a partner in order to avoid the current work regulations. It is also often noted that this is a form of trafficking in human beings, whereby the victims of trafficking in human beings are put to work in our country. They often have to survive in distressing living and working conditions. Your Action Plan Social Fraud 2016 pays due attention to the fight against this bogus statute. You stated that in 2017 the various inspection services would carry out at least one hundred inspections of bogus self-employment and 70% of these would be carried out within 12 months. These controls would be reported by the services on a quarterly basis. Subsequently, an amendment of the legislation would be discussed by the relevant ministers. Mr Secretary of State, first of all, what figures can you give for the first half-year of 2017 regarding the checks on bogus self-employment? Secondly, what conclusions do you draw from the figures? Thirdly, have you already taken an initiative to amend the law? When can Parliament take note of this? Fourthly, what other initiatives are you taking to address the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u2	Thank you, Mr Janssen, for your question. I want, for starters, to put the figures into perspective. The UCL study talks about about 531 000 self-employed people in Belgium, which is a very strong growth. However, it is wrong to say that these are all bogus self-employed. The correcting of this has also been published afterwards. In the original article of La Libre Belgique, this was misrepresented. It is true, however, that there is an increase in self-employed workers and that we can suspect that sometimes false self-employed workers will be among them. It is therefore important that we first examine the legal basis on which we make the distinction. I have also said on several occasions that the law needs renewal and modernisation, which I am also discussing with my colleague Mr Ducarme at the moment. To answer your questions, I would like to point out that several departments have carried out checks on independence and false self-employment. For example, the department of TSW carried out 24 checks until 30 June 2017, leading to 1 808 regularisations. The RSZ carried out 95 checks from 1 January 2017 to 30 June 2017, involving 65 different companies and around 250 employed persons. Of those checks, 81 % was closed within a period of 10 months. In 46 cases an amendment to the Staff Regulations was proposed, for which 14 minutes and 2 criminal reports were drawn up. An amount of social contributions of EUR 721 000 has been proposed for regularisation. The RSVZ also investigated 212 connections. To date, 26 files have been closed in this respect, either because the activity has been discontinued or because a fictitious connection has been established. Five files were referred to the RSZ for further investigation. The other files are still under investigation. Such controls are extremely time-consuming. It is very complex to find out how everything is right. The inspection services have, of course, the right focus today. The ability at the RSVZ to deal with that kind of thing is good. The reform will make us act harder and more concretely against bogus self-employment. The evaluation of the law on employment relations, to which I referred at the beginning, is also in full swing. The NAR is about to present a final report. This was also discussed today with colleague Ducarme, who has the lead in the story. What is also important to mention is that the RSVZ and the RSZ both are currently working on a protocol to ensure that no one, neither employee nor employer, can slip through the loopholes of the network when it comes to losing the status of self-employed or employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u3	Of course, we would like nothing more than for ministers and secretaries of state to do what they have promised. I see that you keep your promises. We will continue to follow the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, I have two questions. The first dates back to June and the second from September, giving it a bit more topical value. My first question concerns the cabotage directive and the mobility package. I tabled a legislative proposal on this matter in committee years ago. Unfortunately, however, this was voted down. We believe that the rules on cabotage should be strengthened. The French held the same debate. The measure has already been taken in Finland. I once proposed that in cabotage the tractor be returned to the country in which it was registered. Now we find that the tractor simply remains so that cabotage cannot actually be mentioned. I tabled my question in June following the discussions in the European Commission. This discussion was preceded by a consultation round. That is why I would have liked to have heard the Belgian Government's position. What position has been taken? What do you think of us, in my opinion, is a splendid bill, which was unfortunately voted down? I will allow the majority to adopt this bill if necessary. My second question concerns the introduction of European quotas for transport activities in the fight against PO Box companies. It is true that a number of major, spectacular actions were carried out at companies that also have post-bus companies in Eastern Europe, not to mention Slovakia. This was actually a great success, although this is actually a euphemism because we unfortunately identified a lot of infringements. We also see that the way in which infringements are committed is becoming more and more sophisticated. This is somewhat logical because the loopholes in the legislation are becoming more and more difficult to circumvent. The amateurs among the fraudsters were taken out by the inspection services. They actually get consultancy on how to organise it. I think you agree that this fight must continue. We can see that in the field, too. You have also mentioned the introduction of quotas which make it more difficult to have a post office bus company in Eastern Europe, because 25% of the transport activities in the country of headquarters should take place. That is why I am asking the question about these quotas. Have you discussed this with our neighbouring countries France, Luxembourg and Germany? Are they fond of your idea? I think it can be investigated. What steps will you take in our country? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is more general. It concerns the revision of the Detachment Directive. This is a matter of concern for SMEs, workers and their representatives. The next few weeks will be important: there is the debate in the European Parliament and in EPSCO, the votes in committee and in plenary. The French president wants a review that puts an end to abuses. In particular, he met with the Prime Minister, who allegedly replied that Belgium was conducting continuous discussions to move the lines. I also know that you have bilateral meetings with some colleagues, particularly in the Eastern countries. Can you tell us which countries were consulted by you and the Prime Minister? What positions do these contacts inspire you? Do you feel that there is a willingness to discuss and achieve a review? What will be Belgium's position? To what extent do we envisage this revision? Do you want any significant progress? We are talking about a maximum of 24 months of detachment; President Macron is talking about 12 months; your predecessor had pleaded for six months. Is that still the Belgian position? Are you in favour of extending the legal basis of the directive, which would also allow for more socially significant progress? The concept of minimum wage could also be extended. These are the few elements on which I would like to know your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u6	Mr President, I shall begin with Mr Geerts' question on cabotage and transport. The directive is based on Mrs Bulc, but this cannot be seen in isolation from what Mrs Thijssen's proposal on secondment says. Firstly, we naturally have our action plan against the fight against social fraud in transport. It is important that we had initial contacts on this basis a few months ago, when the proposal was still being prepared by the European Commission. On that basis, we gave our experiences, our input and our views to Mrs Bulc herself. She knows what we are doing and knows our action plans and interventions, for example on long rest periods and other matters. It is good to see that some of these were included in her proposal. Secondly, it is a very good thing for me that we are finally starting a debate on clear and uniform rules for the whole of Europe. This is important because we are playing in an internal market. It's hard to push the mind back into the bottle. After all, there is the open market that offers enormous benefits, and so we need to ensure that the rules are uniform and applicable. There the shoe, in the sense that a number of rules were vague, was not followed and was not checked. At present, the proposal allows progress to be made in this area. Simplifying and realistic enforcement is the most important message we have sent to Mrs Bulc. It is also important that I brought together the social partners in the transport sector and the competent inspection service from the government together with Mr Bellot on 5 September 2017. We had an exchange of views with them and went through Mrs Bulc's road package very concretely to see the different views of both workers and employers and inspection services. This information is now being processed. There is no official position yet because we are still putting everything together, but the DGE concerned has already met for the first time on 18 July. A technical working group is working on this because, in this case, we are in the Commission's philosophy with a lex specialise with regard to posting within the transport sector. The technical working group should already determine the information and has already met a second time, on 15 September 2017. For us, it is important that there are measures and adjustments to the proposal, which improve the controllability of the legislation. For example, making a tachograph with GPS compulsory is a very efficient way of doing this, but it must be ensured that it is read in the same way everywhere, that data can be exchanged and so on. To require a driver to indicate on a tachograph disc when a land border is crossed is also an element that can be used to ensure that this is clearly apparent in cabotage. As you yourself have said, the fight against social dumping in transport is one of my priorities. You can see for yourself that the battle in the field has been stepped up in recent months. We're taking action. I am thinking, for example, of bilateral contacts. When the story of Slovakia came out, we were already talking to see how we could improve the exchange of information. I hope to receive good news about this shortly, because we will also be able to use bilateral contacts at that time to improve the exchange of information. Another aspect of the proposal, also linked to Mr Daerden's question, is that we look at the two packages together. One of the things that can be used to designate fictitious companies is to determine that there must be a minimum activity. That 25% is in the package that Mr Macron put forward and which we have joined. We have already had contacts with Benelux, Austria, France and Germany in order to present a common point of view at the end of October. It seems obvious to me that Belgium must join other countries in strengthening the various rules of secondment which are very important. First, we aligned politically with these countries. We also provided technical advice to improve the situation and strengthen field controls. These two points seem important to me because we give a very clear political signal and because we implement the necessary technical rules giving our inspection services the opportunity to act on the ground. These different countries have come together and participate in the EPSCO to determine which Eastern countries can work with us. These aspects are important in my bilateral contacts because we need to conclude agreements allowing inspection services to carry out their checks and to have faster access to certain data. I remain convinced that cross-border social fraud and social dumping are an important problem. I also note that the Eastern countries are seeing changes in their own markets because they are also faced with a secondment of staff from Ukraine or Serbia. We are witnessing a change in attitudes and I hope that the Eastern countries realize that, in order to ensure freedom and trade in Europe, we need this strengthening of decisions - the package of Mrs Thyssen and Mrs Buëch.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u7	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I think we're almost on the same page here. A level playing field is essential both for the well-being of workers and for the prosperity of businesses. There are bona fide companies that are really having a hard time in this area and are asking for additional measures. I hope that the bona fide employers, including those in the interest groups, will prevail. I also believe that we should join the leading group, i.e. with a number of other countries such as our neighbouring countries. You gave the example of Serbia. It's true what you're saying about that. I was in Serbia last year. There is a free trade area in which a number of activities are being launched in order to gain access to the Russian market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u8	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your response. Undoubtedly, our findings are the same. I would be tempted to say that our expectations are the same, but you are in the process of maneuvering with your colleagues. I hope that this will lead to real progress. You haven't exactly specified your roadmap, but we'll have the opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u9	As Mrs Jadin is not present, her question No. 19228. Mrs. Fonck isn't here. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 19520, which could not be here today, is converted into a written question. Then I'll ask my question soon. Mr Secretary of State, you have read my text. We are not going to participate in the great reading hour, but I must say something because otherwise it will not be included in the report. What I just said comes in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, the new rules in neighbouring Luxembourg can at first sight be described as fairly strict. A system has been put in place that resembles the Limosa system. However, many forms need to be charged in the electronic platform, which apparently have to be translated into French as well as into German. It is clear that the posting of workers in many countries of the European Union leads to certain problems and that governments are taking measures to combat social fraud and social dumping. Our government is very committed to this, and it is right to do so. However, we must not forget, of course, that a large part of the secondments are indeed correct and that these postings play an important role in our economy. People often argue for less posting, but forget that many Belgians are also posted abroad. If one cuts the possibilities of posting, then one also cuts the possibilities for the Belgians. You often get questions about posting to Belgium. I have a question about how kafka states can make the life of a Belgian acidic. Do you agree that the new rules on posting are strict or do you have a different view on this? Has the Luxembourg Government consulted with the Belgian Government and, therefore, with yourself on the new measures? Can they cause problems for bona fide Belgian employers who wish to send staff to the Grand Duchy? How many employees are posted annually by Belgian employers to Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u11	Mr Van Quickenborne, on the one hand I note that the new legislation in Luxembourg contains many elements of legislation that we adopted in December 2016. So far I cannot criticise it, because we have the same legislation. So I don't have a problem with that either. It is proportional legislation, which enables us to effectively monitor fraud, no more and no less. However, no legislation should be used to ban SMEs and self-employed people from border regions such as Kortrijk or Limburg, and this is precisely where the new legislation in Luxembourg is concerned. However, it is important to note that it is up to the European Commission to assess whether or not everything is being done proportionally. The European Commission will continue to monitor this. As you yourself rightly point out, excessive legislation should not be imposed, or excessive rules should not be imposed, with the main aim of excluding foreign companies. I have therefore always worked from the very simple observation that when social protection is higher in a country than in the country to which it is posted, there can be no de facto social dumping. This means that minimum wages, social protection and contributions are higher than in the country in which the person concerned is employed. Since Belgium has one of the best social safety nets and is one of the countries with the highest social protection in Europe, I have pointed out in the contacts with French and Luxembourg colleagues, for example, that when a person is posted from Belgium to France, Germany or Luxembourg, we always have higher social protection and higher minimum wages than in those countries. How can there be social dumping at that time? In my view, that is simply not possible. So the principle could be applied that much more freedom and flexibility and an exemption from certain papers and rules should be given when it can be demonstrated that social legislation is much stricter and much clearer in its own country. I believe that this will make it easier for workers to be posted and at the same time that social dumping is absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u13	On the theme of social dumping in construction, which is one of the most affected sectors, your government welcomed the positive employment figures in the sector in 2016. You are putting forward your measures to combat social dumping to explain this embellishment. Nevertheless, players in the sector warn for 2017, which is likely to be a black year in this area. The Confederation of Construction recalls a serious trend for several years, in particular in terms of the reduction of wage employment in the total number of workers available in the sector. We are already in October 2017. Do you have any data on the evolution of the whole year 2017 and what measures are you implementing to anticipate these negative forecasts or at least pessimistic ones that endanger employment in construction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u14	Mr Daerden, I said earlier that Belgian employment in construction was increasing. The figures of the National Bank also show this. For example, between 2015 and 2017, the number of Belgian employees increased by almost 5,000 people in construction. At the same time, the number of employees seconded, only in the construction sector, decreased by about 7,000 in 2016. It's also an important figure. All of this makes sure that there is already a perspective in the construction sector, I think. It also seems interesting to me to take this into account because it brings hope and a little perspective to all, not only to employees but also to companies active in the sector. In order to further strengthen the fight against social dumping, the Government, in its summer agreement, decided to reduce the tax burden on work done on real estate, construction and electro. For me, it is also an anti-fraud measure to reduce charges and taxes on everything that falls within the scope of construction. This is an asset in the differences between companies in different countries. From 1 January 2018, salary costs will decrease by EUR 100 million. We will continue to decrease to €200 million in 2019 and €600 million in 2020. It is, in my opinion, a very important element. At European level, we will also note in the coming week the reform of the rules on secondment. We've already discussed it. Here too, I think there are things to do. Bilateral agreements continue to be made. I have always insisted on creating a European database. This, in my view, is the only way to effectively combat social fraud at European level. The exchange of data must be achieved. That seems very important to me. Another important aspect is that, for the time being, it still happens too often that the regulations currently in force are not applied in the different countries. There is also an effort to make. I pleaded with Mrs Thyssen that the European Commission should assist the Eastern countries and strengthen their control capabilities, such as their databases. We are taking various measures to continue the fight against social fraud in construction; for me this remains a very important economic sector for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u15	Thank you, Secretary of State. I agree with you on this point: this is an important sector. I'm glad to hear you're optimistic about 2017. I'm surprised the sector is less so. We'll see about the autopsy. I hope that you will be right and that it will make them wrong. It doesn't matter what the origin of this embellishment is. What matters is that it creates jobs. Whether it comes from an increase in activity in general, from adapted European rules, or from internal measures taken, whatever. It is by combining the actions of all, from the local level to that of Europe, that we will achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with the aim of employing low-wage drivers, circumventing Belgian legislation, avoiding a share of taxes and social contributions in Belgium, many transport companies are fictively setting up companies in Slovakia to hire low-cost drivers to drive them in Belgium under limited wage conditions. The system is perfectly perfect, with the use of straw men, mailboxes, etc., thanks to the use of intermediary companies often founded by Belgians who manage each aspect of the management of such companies. A union investigated the site and found thirty-three boxes of companies at one address. By pretending to be potential candidates for the creation of a fictitious business, the union's investigators obtained all the information on the mechanisms of this large-scale fraud. As Slovak drivers are now "too expensive" and no longer accepting to be underpaid, drivers from other countries where wages are still lower are now engaged to ride fraudulently in Belgium. This system creates real social dumping, which would have left more than 6,000 Belgian drivers unemployed. But your administration does not cross arms; proof of this is that in May last year, three members of the largest transport company in Wallonia, which employs 2,700 people and has 1,300 trucks, were arrested for a series of offences ranging from trafficking in human beings to the forgery and use of fake social services, to non-payment of contributions to ONSS. Mr Secretary of State, what means have been put in place to track down these fictitious companies in both Belgium and Slovakia? What are the reactions of the Slovak authorities to this problem? In October, a meeting of the relevant European Ministers will be held with the problem of posted workers on the agenda. What are your expectations about this? Following the arrest of the leaders of this Belgian transport company, are there any other files that would not have been publicized? Do you have figures in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u17	Mr Staassecretary, I agree with Mr Flahaux's question. You propose to introduce a rule to have at least 25% of the activities carried out in the country of headquarters. My questions are as follows. How do you see that proposal? Does this apply only to the sectors sensitive to fraud or to all sectors? Are we talking about 25% of working hours, turnover or the number of employees? What measure do you use? In addition to possible new European measures, you are also following the path of bilateral consultations and agreements. How is your consultation with the Slovak Government progressing on the issue of the transport sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u18	Colleagues, as I have already said, such large-scale files cannot be detected as a means of intensive cooperation between the police, inspection services, the Mobility FPS, the social inspection services and the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the justice side. That seems very useful to me. Here too, protocols between the different services are being strengthened. Together, we try to combat these different phenomena. Such an investigation really takes a lot of effort, takes a lot of time and requires real cooperation with the various inspection and police services, not only in Belgium. To this end, I would like to optimize the use of technological means (ANPR network and cameras). It is currently being studied with the different regions whether such data can be accessed to focus on cabotage for example, to detect the presence of trucks, their border crossing. It makes things easier. There are some practical difficulties, but today the different services are already working very well together. I have visited the various inspection services on the road on two or three occasions. It works pretty well. We also work with other countries. An action by the Federal Police took place in Brussels in collaboration with other countries to determine which trucks to stop in the context of social fraud. Here, too, we're trying to work together. As far as Slovakia is concerned, a major problem has been detected. The unions have indicated this, but this problem has been known for some time. So I have already started negotiations with Slovakia. I hope that in the coming weeks an agreement will be signed to have access to the data that will enable us to combat the problem of mailboxes. This is very difficult to detect and leads to unfair competition between Belgian companies. That is why we have introduced the 25% rule. That which Mr Van Quickenborne referred to, which accounts for 25% of turnover, leads to a clear criterion being laid down. Today, according to the legislation, we must have a significant activity. What does that mean? This is a significant activity. To improve the application of the rules, we try to determine what the parameters are. In this way, controls are better and much more targeted. At the same time, we are building transparency. Some companies claim to be in order because they have a significant activity. In fact, that is not the case. We also discussed it with France, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria to see if we could not form a working group and pilot this project, with the help of Mrs Thyssen, but also by following Mrs Bulc's proposal. For me, we must work collectively to advance and succeed in this area. We are strengthening cooperation between services, not only in Belgium, but also with other States. The discussion is not always easy. For example, some Eastern countries are very open to working with us and negotiating bilateral agreements to that end, while others are procrastination. So it's always "two steps forward, one step backwards"! Above all, many of them have problems. Different steps must be taken, as Mr. Daerden explained. We are acting at the regional, national and European levels. Together, we will succeed in combating social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I believe that the real solution will come when the countries of Central and Eastern Europe are at our level of development. Wages will no longer be an incentive. In any case, I am greatly satisfied because you feel your willingness to really fight this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u20	To be clear, we are working with Mr Bellot on this. The collaboration is excellent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u21	Mrs. Fonck is not here to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u22	This is a follow-up question concerning the additional inspectors and the effective capacity utilisation of the inspection services. I have already asked this question in the past to your predecessor, Mr Bart Tommelein. He said the recruitment would be quick. When this question was asked to you again, you replied that 71 of the 96 inspectors were recruited and that the 25 others were coming. I have the following questions. What is the state of play regarding the recruitment of the remaining 25 still to be recruited Inspectors? What training do these people still need? Are the 100 new forces fully engaged in the fight against social dumping? What's their job description? Has this increased the total quota of inspectors, or has it offset the trend and the wave of retirement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u23	So far, 80 inspectors and inspectors have been recruited. The most recent recruitments were made at the RSVZ and the TSW. It's slow, but I only want people with the good qualities. The examinations must take place at the appropriate level. I can say, however, that the procedure is currently under way or has been completed for 14 additional people, which brings the total to 94. They can, in principle, join the quota in the coming weeks. Then we're very close to the 96 that my predecessor announced. We will be able to start using them. It is also worth mentioning that since 1 June 2017, 10 inspectors have been recruited from the TSW, who will only work in the specialised network and transport cell. There are also 270 social inspectors who will spend 20% of their working time exclusively on dossiers relating to the fight against social dumping. That's not insignificant either. Also RSVZ inspectors, who are normally not always directly involved in the fight against social dumping, will provide additional support for these actions. You can see that, despite the delay, we are still trying to keep up the schedule both in terms of prioritizing a number of people and in terms of completing the framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u24	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I have another question, which I may be able to ask in writing. To what extent will the imminent retirement wave be overcome? I also notice in other administrations that there is a huge wave of retirement coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u25	Indeed, I have not yet answered that question. Together with the services, we constantly monitor whether this wave of retirement hits them hard or not and whether it can be overcome by other means. In this respect, too, there is a permanent follow-up to see if there are any additional needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u26	My question concerns the mandatory weekend rest after a week shift. Every two weeks, a driver must take 45 hours of mandatory rest after a weekly shift. The regulation states that this must not happen in the truck itself. Unfortunately, we note that this is what is causing dangerous situations. I'm thinking of people who start cooking themselves on non-equipped fires and the like. There has been a large-scale control in Zeebrugge. 56 policemen participated and 180 trucks were controlled. If one was not in order, a fine had to be paid. If they couldn't, the truck would have been hacked. I read in the media that the inspection considers operations of this kind to be a priority, but the enormous staffing effort that requires it cannot be over-organised. What is the status of checks on the weekly rest of lorries? Are there any such controls as planned in Zeebrugge?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u27	Thank you, Mr President, for that question. You are right to point out that road checks are a priority and that this indeed requires considerable effort from resources and people. It happens all the time. From the various services we fish both Belgian and non-Belgian companies and that also brings with it extra work. In view of their driving and rest periods, tachograph fraud and the like, foreign license plates and foreign companies are being followed perfectly. I have also argued in favour of other information flows being included, for example, the ANPR cameras which would make cabotage easier to control. This would also allow us to monitor more closely. Clear arrangements have been made in the Action Plan for joint controls to be carried out through the SIOD. With local and federal police forces, the FPS Mobility, regional inspection services, including justice that is more and more on board, we continue to work on this. I have proposed increasing the number of common controls to 600 by 2018. That clearly has an impact on the ground. Some of the ideas and proposals that already apply in Belgium today have also been taken into account in Mrs Bulc's proposal. This is important because it gives more uniformity to the legislation, as you yourself have said. I must also point out that Belgium can be seen as a frontrunner in the field of risk rating, since different data exchange systems and treatment periods have been introduced in our country. The specific controls are, of course, the autonomy of the various departments, but our action plan calls for the strengthening of common controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u28	Since January 2016, there has been a cooperation agreement between the social partners of the taxi sector, the inspection services, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and your predecessor as Secretary of State for Social Fraud. It was agreed that an annual follow-up meeting would take place. The last one was on Tuesday, September 26th. Several inspection services were present. The partners around the table regretted that none of the various ministerial cabinets were present, but that could have been agenda-related. The problem identified is that one does not succeed in getting data from the Uber Pop drivers. In fact, it is argued that these must be in the possession of the Belgian government or the judiciary by the fact that there is an exchange of information with the Dutch government. At the time, in March 2015, the list would have been made available to the Belgian government after a check in the Netherlands. The RSZ now states that they can't give that for privacy reasons. My question is therefore where the research is now and what steps need to be taken so that everyone can do their job? Can those data become available so that something can be done with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u29	Thank you. There was indeed a meeting on 26 September. That meeting shall form part of the roll-out and implementation of the Protocol signed in January 2016. A permanent contact point with 16 partners was then established. That meeting is at the invitation of the SIOD and those meetings are therefore part of the functioning of the SIOD. I have always said that if the SIOD brings together services, there should be no political interference there. At that time we also said that this is the job of the SIOD and the invitation to that meeting is within their competence. Unfortunately, for the answer to your questions, I have to be brief because it is not about respecting privacy but about respecting the secret of the investigation. An investigation is under way with a link to abroad currently with the Brussels Labour Auditor. So I can't say anything about that because I don't want to violate the secret of the investigation. It will, of course, be the case that the necessary information will be communicated to the services concerned as soon as this is necessary. I would, however, like to say that on our side we will also carry out a (...) audit in the taxi sector in November of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u30	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic740x.u31	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Frédéric Daerden's 20960 and 20961 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Jean-Marc Delizée's 20964 was postponed to another committee meeting.
