ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to listen to Mrs Grovonius?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u3	Prime Minister, we have all been following the news. Yesterday, the President of the United States, Donald Trump, recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. This unilateral decision is illegitimate and illegal under international law. This decision is also welcomed only by Mr Netanyahu and his hard-right allies. This decision sweeps away all peace efforts in the region and destroys a lasting two-State solution, which could cause unprecedented chaos in this region of the Middle East. Meanwhile, what is Belgium doing? It welcomes the unity of NATO and expresses its bitterness at this decision. This reaction, Prime Minister, is not up to the challenge that is at stake. In the face of continued and growing colonization, in the face of ever-greater oppression of the Palestinian people in recent decades and the impunity of the Israeli government for all violations of international law, it is necessary for our country and the European Union to make a strong response in order to avoid the escalation of violence and the ensuing chaos, of which the civilian population would, of course, be the first victims. Prime Minister, do you intend to publicly condemn President Trump's decision? Do you intend to meet with the United States Ambassador on this matter? Finally, do you intend to recognize the State of Palestine at a time when the opportune moment is becoming increasingly louder, the only possibility for this two-State solution to become a reality on the ground and ensure respect for international law? Will you finally strictly apply the European labelling guidelines in Belgium? What about next Monday's meeting with Mr. Netanyahu? What position will Belgium take in this context? I hope that our country will be firm, in any case on issues of respect for international law and, in particular, on the question of colonization. Thank you in advance, Prime Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have seen Jerusalem, a fascinating city, a symbolic city where beliefs cross, legends, where the hopes and dreams of Palestinians and Israelis are telescopic. On the subject of dreams, Prime Minister, I would like here, on behalf of all the Greens, to show our solidarity with both the Palestinians and those who, in Israel too, want this peaceful two-state solution. Colonization is always violent. When it happens in rural areas, in the West Bank, it is farms that are destroyed. They are villagers who are rejected from places where they have always lived. These are fields that are captured. In Jerusalem, colonization is even more unbearable because it is apartment by apartment. It is street-by-street and paved-by-paved that Palestinian families, who have lived there for generations, must give way to Israeli families. President Trump's political act is not, as Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Didier Reynders said this morning, a regrettable act. First of all, it is an illegal act, totally contrary to all the relevant resolutions adopted at the United Nations. It is a criminal act, because it validates, it supports an inhuman and unacceptable policy. Trump has taken a crazy step, with dramatic and still unpredictable consequences, which condemns the two-state solution. The European Union's response cannot be a half measure. That is why, Prime Minister, I am asking you these three questions. Mr Netanyahu returns to Brussels on Monday. What will Mr. Didier Reynders tell him? Are you going to ban Israeli products from settlements in Palestine? Finally, Prime Minister, we have voted here a resolution calling for the recognition of the Palestinian State at the appropriate time. I think this moment has arrived.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, if there was a Nobel Prize for war, President Trump would definitely deserve it. The last barrel of powder he lit on this planet is the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and the decision to set up the American embassy there. It is a supreme affront to the Palestinian people. It is also a serious violation of international law, which violates, inter alia, resolutions 476 and 478 of 1980 and 2334 of 2016, and it is an encouragement to further intensify colonization, including in East Jerusalem. In Belgium, the Union of Jewish Progressiveists of Belgium (UPJB) declared that "Trump's decision was an act of war". As far as the government is concerned, I am not aware of any reaction from you. Minister Reynders did not find anything else to say that "it is regrettable". He even added that he saw, in Trump's speech, elements that go in the right direction. That's the government's reaction! Prime Minister, have you understood that your American ally is now burning in the four corners of the world and is a major risk of war? Do you not find that Belgium must distance itself and reconsider its political and military alliance with the United States? Don't you think the time has come to recognize the Palestinian State? I refer here to the resolution that the majority voted in the House in 2015, in which I quote: "The House calls on the government to recognize the Palestinian State as a State and as a subject of international law at the time that will be deemed the most appropriate." Prime Minister, isn't this the right time to recognize the Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital today? Finally, should Belgium not oppose the arrival of Netanyahu in Brussels on Monday 11 December?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u6	Prime Minister, you will probably remember this premonitory statement: "Trump will make a dangerous president, the most reckless in American history, and he will weaken the moral authority of the United States. It was not the Democrats who said it, but about fifty Republican figures, including the former boss of the CIA, the National Security Agency or the State Department. It is a statement that dates back to August 2016, but is quite relevant today: Donald Trump sits on international law, on Security Council resolutions, he flouts the legitimacy of this Security Council, where he nevertheless has a prominent role with his veto power. It is not afraid to isolate itself from its best allies: Great Britain, France, Sweden, Italy, the four member countries of the European Union that are members of the Security Council today and that have requested an urgent meeting of the Security Council to discuss this issue. It is not afraid to destabilise a region that is bordering Europe. He is not afraid to set fire to the powders when he is the world's first political and military power and his role is precisely to contribute to peace and stability, and not to be a factor of instability. Prime Minister, what is Belgium's position on this unilateral statement by the United States? What position should the European Union have taken? I didn't see much until this decision, which we knew was highly probable. What consultations have been held to try to oppose this decision and, if so, to have an immediate and unanimous reaction? What will be the attitude of our four representatives of the European Union to the Security Council on Friday morning at the meeting they requested? What will be Belgium's position on this meeting on Monday morning? Finally, it is time, in order to preserve the rights of the Palestinians, that Belgium, like 130 other countries at the global level, fully recognize the Palestinian State in its rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, Europe has a problem. Europe has a big problem, and it's called Trump. What the President of the United States has done in the Middle East over the past year is causing huge problems in our country. He disputes the nuclear deal with Iran, he hunts Saudi Arabia to start a battle with Iran, and yesterday, as a blow, he walked through the oh so sensitive Palestinian-Israeli problem like an elephant. However, almost all world leaders have asked him over the past few weeks and months not to take that step, the recognition of Jerusalem, but yet he does it. What surprised me most was the weak response of our foreign minister. I'm sorry! Would you be more punitive, Prime Minister? Is it not necessary for Europe to oppose this stupid, dangerous policy of the United States in the Middle East? I believe that we have many reasons for doing so. Not just peace and security in the Middle East. All specialists fear a new intifada. Moreover, Prime Minister, all specialists say that Trump has given the jihadists a great gift. We are sure that they are already recruiting for a Jerusalem Brigade. This is the first reason why you should knock on the table as Prime Minister of our country in Europe. Minister Reynders regrets the recognition and brings out his handkerchief, but we expect you to show that Europe can make a fist. It must also be done with slavish obedience towards the United States in the Palestinian-Israeli issues. Trump has acknowledged Jerusalem; well, I think it is time for the European Union to recognise the State of Palestine. One hundred and thirty-six states in 192 in the world have already done so. In this Chamber, the sp.a has long argued for it. Unfortunately, we did not make it through the 2015 resolution. I appeal to the majority, I appeal to you, Prime Minister. Show that Europe can make a fist in the Middle East and pay the United States with the same currency. If they recognise Jerusalem, we must recognise Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, Donald Trump has recognised Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. That goes against international law. Common sense politicians don't do that. In a region that is so inflammable, in a conflict that so polarizes and causes so much hatred, steps are needed that bring peace closer rather than pushing peace further away. Trump's decision legitimizes an illegal Israeli occupation policy and is therefore an act of pure aggression. However, Europe can no longer hide. One of Trump's reasons for admitting this is the complete absence of the European Union in this conflict. Trump has nothing to fear from half-hearted Europe. For 20 years, the European Union has limited itself to indignation in this conflict and for 20 years, the EU has been forced to observe that Israel ignores this outrage and continues the illegal occupation policy. A more active and stronger European Union is therefore absolutely necessary, with the Americans if they can and without the Americans if they have to. Because if Trump teaches us one thing, then Europe cannot necessarily be sure of American support and respect for international law. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is strong enough. Europe is Israel's main trading partner. A strong policy is therefore perfectly possible. It would be very consistent to ban the import of products from illegal Israeli settlements in Palestinian territories in Europe or Belgium. Belgium can do the same. Is this the kind of measure we can expect from you, Prime Minister? What are your suggestions? What is your ambition to unblock the peace process and take steps forward? Belgium is a founding member of the European Union and we are a candidate for a seat on the UN Security Council. I therefore believe that stability in the Middle East is something that Belgium should be attracted to and for which we must show ambition. So I look forward to your reply and your specific proposals on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the American President decided to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. This decision is unacceptable to us and we condemn it. This decision is also a provocation to the Palestinians and to the Muslim world as a whole. Trump throws oil on the fire, Trump plays with fire in the Middle East. We have all seen Hamas today calling for a people's uprising, an intifada, a new intifada. This decision is not a step in the right direction to relaunch the Middle East peace process. My party and this majority, as well as this Parliament, have confirmed their strong belief in a two-state solution in a resolution. It lays down a special status for Jerusalem and, finally, a recognition of the Palestinian State. Therefore, Prime Minister, we ask you to strongly condemn President Trump's decision and send a strong signal to the US Government. We also expect the European Union to do this. We expect the European Union to play an active role in relaunching and giving the Middle East peace process a chance. That must be done for my group and for my party in the context of a two-state solution. It must be done that Europe is looking the other way. Prime Minister, will you take steps to raise this with your American partners? What will be the impact of this decision on the two-state solution? What role should and can the European Union play in this conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, almost one year after President Trump's oath, the so-called'Washington swamp' has still not dried up. On the contrary, it gets wetter and wetter every day. In order to divert the attention from that swamp, President Trump delivered another election promise yesterday, in particular the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. This decision does not have much impact on the United States, but all the more so on the Middle East. Instead of demining the conflict, he lit the fuse. There is fear of riots after Friday's prayer tomorrow and Hamas calls for a new intifada. With this decision, the United States clearly supports Israel. It is clear that the United States can no longer play the role of mediator in the region and between Israel and Palestine. My party therefore believes it is high time that the European Union took over the role of mediator. We maintain good relations, both with Palestine and with Israel. The European Union can also play an active role, mediate and try to avoid the conflict. Prime Minister, I have three questions. Firstly, this week you met the US Secretary of State, Mr Tillerson. What message did you give him? Secondly, will the European Council act unanimously? I read that the Czech Republic is already considering moving its embassy to Jerusalem. Thirdly, will the European Union really take on this mediation role?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before answering the questions, I should like, if you will, to express a thought for the Minister of State Philippe Maystadt who has just passed away. This information was provided at the beginning of the meeting. It is a prominent personality that has marked the history of our country. A great European too. I would like to propose to the Assembly that a minute of silence be observed in its memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we took note of President Trump's statement concerning the Jerusalem Embassy. I want to be very clear on that. We regard this declaration as not in accordance with international law. We regard this declaration as a threat to an important peace process. We condemn this declaration and are convinced that it plays a negative role and throws oil on the fire, which is unacceptable. It is of course, and I solemnly express it at this rostrum, that not only will our embassy remain in Tel Aviv, but we also intend to mobilize politically, diplomatically and first and foremost within the European Union. Indeed, as many have rightly said, we have long considered that the European Union should have the ambition to play a more determined role in foreign affairs, at the international level, in mobilizing for a peace process, a more mobilized role because the European Union is Israel's main economic and trade partner and, at the same time, the European Union is the main partner for development projects in Palestine. A few months ago, I was present in Israel and Palestine with a delegation of MEPs. We have always been attentive to a clear but nuanced message. We believe that Israel's right to security is particularly crucial. The condemnation of violence is also particularly important. I suppose everyone's on the same page in that respect, too. However, I also call for coherence at European level. For example, we are asking for more investment at European level in a European defence within NATO. This is a crucial condition in order to have more political weight in international dossiers, such as this one. I therefore call on those who, in a generous way – and I agree with these proposals – say that Europe must be mobilised more in favour of a peace process, to be realistic and to consider that the choices we make at European level, the validation, a few days ago, of a common defence policy, are consistent with our ambition to give more capacity and political weight to Europe in order to ensure that there is a mediation capacity at the start of the European Union. I'm clear, too. There will be a European Council next week. I will seize the opportunity to make a clear plea at next week's European Council for a strong European response. I call for a mediation role for the European Union. I hope that we will be able to convince European colleagues to join us on this issue so that Europe can be more mobilised. As you mentioned, in bilateral relations with the United States, we are dealing with all the issues. There are many convergences of views. We are economic partners and in the fight against terrorism. This does not prevent differences of opinion on certain subjects. I recently stated that we do not share their views on climate change and on the issue of Iran, on which we believe that the diplomatic channel should be preserved through the agreement reached. I also received a few questions about the presence of Prime Minister Netanyahu in Belgium next week. According to my information at this time, it may still change, it is Netanyahu's intention to have bilateral consultations with the European Union. There's no appointment planned with me right now. However, I do not exclude, depending on the evolution in the next few hours, that such an appointment would be possible, but I have not received confirmation of that. To complete my answer, I come to one final important point. A few months ago, indeed, the Chamber adopted a resolution, an important message for the government. I am convinced that we must look at the consequences of that resolution. If we want to gain more weight, it is better to make a choice for formal recognition in a European framework. One must be consistent. It is said that Europe must gain more weight, which also means that Europe must play a stronger role in this and we must have a vision at European level. On the diplomatic front, I intend to discuss with my European counterparts all these issues, including the resolution adopted by the House. In this way, we will see how we can make the right decisions and act in the most appropriate way. As you will have understood, the Belgian Government's answer is extremely clear and precise. We intend to remain mobilized in the European area to make the voice of reason, peace and respect for international law heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u13	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear that European mobilisation must continue with a view to reaching a strong common position. I have said so and will continue to support this ambition. Unfortunately, Prime Minister, in anticipation of a European Union position, the situation is deteriorating day after day, so that we are faced with the fait accompli that will not allow us to go back. However, Belgium has levers that it can operate directly. It can decide on strong actions and take responsibility for this issue. As we have said, the development of guidelines for the labelling of colony-derived products is one of the avenues to be explored in depth. In addition, I maintain that the resolution voted by our Parliament must be put into effect immediately. This is the minimum condition for a two-State solution, which will promote lasting peace in the region. In this way, security and respect for international law can be guaranteed. Prime Minister, Belgium must therefore also assume its role and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u14	Prime Minister, the fight against colonization must be led by all European Democrats. Of course, the European Union must play a role, even if we know that this task is complicated – particularly with regard to products sold on the territory of the Union that come from the Israeli settlements in Palestine. You can play an avant-garde role in calling for the implementation of proactive policies that prohibit the sale of settlement products. You can do this and say to other European states, "Do as we do." It's attacking colonial ideology. It is to attack Israel's discriminatory policies. Prime Minister, at the moment, 45,000 people are demonstrating in Brussels. I would like on Monday to see 45,000 people protest at the arrival of Benyamin Netanyahu and demand recognition from the State of Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u15	Prime Minister, in your speech, you at least condemn the facts. This is already a development in relation to Minister Reynders. But what are the actions of this government? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. Regrettably, I would tend to say if I wanted to use Didier Reynders' words. You have everything to do with the European Union. It's a little easy, Prime Minister. If you wanted things to move at European level, Belgium would have to take initiatives in a certain direction and stop doing the carp before President Trump. Israel, today, is the main, if not the only, state in the world that still practices colonization and apartheid. To put an end to apartheid in South Africa, economic sanctions have been imposed on that country. That is why we have managed to do so. In this context, my colleague Raoul Hedebouw and I have tabled a motion for a resolution providing for sanctions against Israel's settlement policy. Prime Minister, I think that today, if we really want colonization to stop in this country, there is no other option than to do as we do with South Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u16	Prime Minister, as you said, it is now more than ever the time of Europe. In this crisis, as in so many other crises, it is Europe's time. It is important and urgent for Europe to have a diplomacy that is up to this challenge. Two very important meetings will take place in the coming days. You haven't talked much about it. A meeting of the Security Council will be held tomorrow. It is extremely important for Europe to come with clear, firm and concerted positions beforehand. You didn't mention it. Sweden, in particular, has recognized the Palestinian State. I am counting on you to speak with Sweden, so that there is a clear and clear movement in favour of this recognition at European level – this seems essential to me – and that other firm arrangements are prepared for this Security Council. On Monday there is also a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. I would like the Foreign Minister to clearly defend this position here too. I am deeply concerned about the position of the US President. We know that in the Middle East, there are more and more boots. An axis is emerging between Saudi Arabia, the United States and Israel facing an axis between Iran and Hezbollah. My fear is that this US President's decision will speed up an extremely serious process of destabilization at our doorstep. Prime Minister, thank you for taking note of this and for ensuring that this destabilization does not occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u17	Prime Minister, I have listened to you very carefully. The words are there. We now want to see whether there are any actions to follow. Over the last 20 years, I have heard so many times that, in the context of the quartet, Europe played an important role in resolving the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, but in practice we followed the United States in Europe. The United States has disqualified itself. They can no longer be considered an honour broker. The region of the Palestinians and the Israelis needs a Europe that is finally taking up its role. Prime Minister, I hope that you will pass on that message and convince your colleagues. Words won't touch Trump, only deeds. Pay him back with the EU with the same coin. The United States recognizes against the advice of all Europeans in Jerusalem. Europe must recognise Palestine. That is the only way to save a two-state solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u18	Prime Minister, you are condemning. You don't agree with Donald Trump. You want Europe to mediate. So far we can follow, but what if Netanyahu, as he always does, ignores such words with pride and makes the peace process impossible, then what will be the response of Belgium and the EU? A basic course of logic teaches me that if something doesn't work, one has to change the approach. We cannot afford to allow this stalemate to continue for another 20 years, because the instability in the Middle East also threatens security in Europe. Sweden has unilaterally recognised Palestine. That is an important symbolic step. Let's follow. If Europe decides to impose sanctions against Russia because it is illegally occupying Crimea, then I see no reason not to take sanctions against a country that illegally occupies Palestinian territory. An import ban on products coming from Israeli settlements can be introduced at European level, but Belgium can also do so alone. I would therefore ask you to consider this. Take that step! Not just say you're judging this, but finally tie some action to that. Other countries will follow you there. Sweden has already preceded you, but other European countries will certainly follow you. We need guidance. A little more than just the fine words from earlier, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are satisfied with the condemnation of Trump's decision. I believe that next week you should also seize the opportunity to deliver this message to Netanyahu unequivocally. Our country, together with other European countries, must do everything in its power to ensure that this conflict does not escalate. The question of Jerusalem must be looked at in the context of a two-state solution. This two-state solution means that the State of Palestine is finally recognised. Ladies and gentlemen, the United States must be aware that their unilateral decisions are putting stability and peace in the world, specifically in the Middle East, at risk. They are playing with fire, and that must be made clear to them. Europe needs to step up its efforts. I hope that Europe will be able to take on a role of mediation. It is really time for Europe to knock on the table and say that we need clear, concrete measures. After the words indeed the deeds!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u20	Prime Minister, I am very pleased with your answers. You say that the EU must play a decisive role at international level and that you will ask the European Council for a strong response. In addition, you will ask the Council to take on a mediation role. This seems realistic to me, and it also corresponds to what we are asking. I am also pleased that you mention European defence. This is indeed one of the tools to get things moving. If we are stronger in this respect, we will also be able to intervene more strongly. The compass of a stronger Europe is aimed at Europe. I therefore give you every support to force that reaction in the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u21	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the saga of the national stadium continues. We will probably be determined in a few hours on whether UEFA gives the authorities a final deadline to complete this dossier or whether it falls. If it were to fall, it would obviously be a failure. I am all the more comfortable talking about this issue because at the time when the decision was made to establish the national stadium in a private domain of the City - Grimbergen territory - my party was not associated with either the regional majority or the College of the City. Those who made this decision still had to assess the pros and cons of the formula. If we follow the news, following statements by a member of your party at the City of Brussels, Mr Courtois - the initiator of the project - you would have suggested that this matter would not have been carried out professionally. You will come and tell us if you confirm what is being lent to you by the press. I did not witness this, but I can stick to the comments made this morning on the air by the Deputy Prime Minister, according to whom we could have thought earlier about the renovation of the King Baudouin stadium. That was the option I was defending. I would point out that the previous government, in which Mr Reynders sat, in the declaration of candidature for the Euro 2020, accepted the choice of the site of the Grimbergen parking lot. All the Governments of the country have signed this nomination. Does the federal government give up this commitment? If not, what initiative will you take to stop the bad joke imposed on this issue by certain authorities and what can still be saved from the good repute of our country in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to this opportunity every Thursday afternoon, since we no longer have the pleasure of meeting in court, of meeting with you for a public debate. Having said that, what is my knowledge of this file? What is my understanding and interpretation of it? The first point, as I understand it in any case, is that the Brussels Region and the City of Brussels are in fact the initiative of this stage project. That's the starting point, you'll admit. You yourself referred to your statements at the time and to those of your party's colleagues who were, at least, extremely dubious. I am talking about statements about the choice that had been made and that, at the time, did not mobilise all the entities in this country – there was no agreement. Second point, no, the Flemish government was not involved in the starting point of this project. Mrs. Onkelinx seems to doubt it. I therefore give objective information on the subject. From the start, there was a "vice" in launching a project such as this one, if we wanted to mobilise all the political forces around an ambition of this nature. Thirdly, you mentioned it and I say it in diplomatic terms: this is a curious, strange choice of the Brussels Region - the City of Brussels - which is launching a project outside the territory of the Brussels Region. Amazing choice, curious choice! You picked it up at the time. For my part, at no time before or after I took office as Prime Minister, I did not make any public statements on this subject. At no time did I express myself in relation to this matter. However, I do have deep doubts about the implementation of a project which, from my point of view and from yours, Mr. Maingain, has been very badly started. In addition, you and your party, Mr. Maingain, are now present in the Brussels Region. Your party confirmed in the Brussels Region the support for this project, even mentioning that there cannot be a regional public euro for this project. Why then would you want to have a federal public euro for the project for which you do not want to have regional public money? It's a curious step, it seems to me. Finally, I will make it quite clear that if at any given time the Brussels Region should wish to open a discussion or dialogue in the Conciliation Committee on a point such as this one, I am obviously available to play a positive and constructive role. I must say that, in three years, I have organised a consultation committee every month; at no time has the Brussels Region included this item on the agenda!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u23	Prime Minister, you have the brief memory. The nomination paper signed by the federal government and the three regional governments, the three, I insist,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u25	No. But you were in the majority in the previous government. One day we'd have to call back. [[brouhaha]] No, no, no, no, I was not in the majority of the previous government. No! In 2013, I wasn't in the majority!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u26	You voted for confidence, Mr. Maingain. You voted trust under the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u27	Not at all! In 2013, I was in opposition. I think you have a little chronology problem. In 2013, I was in opposition to the federal government. I was in opposition to the Region and I was in opposition to the City of Brussels. At the time the decision was taken, you were in the majority in the City of Brussels. You were in the majority in the federal government. Ensure the continuity of your decisions and commitments! We, in fact, have the elegance of not saying to some of the political friends: "You have ruined the file!" Who messed up the file, since we're told it was a bad choice from the start? Who? At the City of Brussels, a sports alderman identified himself with this project as well and more. Have a little probity about him! At the time, you told him he screwed up the file. You told him he should have thought about renovating the King Baudouin Stadium? Did you say that? When and where? Never! So the dignity of the powers, when we assume them, is to say that, of course, a project has been poorly undertaken but we are trying to save it, not to have the satisfaction of making rules of account but to have the honour of preserving the credibility of the Belgian State abroad. That's what we have to do!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u28	Zero credibility, Mr. Maingain! Zero credibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u29	Prime Minister, the law of 2013 stipulates that the government belongs to Prince Laurent and can then put forward a proposal to withhold the donation here in the Chamber. Mr Prime Minister, we have still not seen that proposal. I have the impression that this is a legal thing. In fact, it has become so bad that Prince Laurent's lawyer is already relying on the Human Rights Convention. Prime Minister, you have said a number of times that you would make the code of conduct clear to Prince Laurent. Did you do that? What did you tell him? After all, I have the impression that he did not understand. There could be two reasons for this. Mr Prime Minister-Pedagogue, either you have not been clear in your explanation, or the prince-Pedagogue is stubborn and does not want to understand it or does not want to listen. Prime Minister, I also see in the lawyer's letter that he has still not received a reply from you to the statement of 25 September 2017. The standard is 30 days. We're a little over two months later. Is that right? What answer will you give? Can we take note of that, too? As I said, I see no proposal here in the Chamber. But what do I see? I see members of the government making many tough statements at the door of Rue de la Loi 16, such as the warning that the prince should turn to Unia. Mr Prime Minister, that is a very stupid statement. After all, what does she lead to? She leads to extra ammo for Prince Laurent's attorney. Your entire government must be a symbol of impartiality! Of course, you are no longer able to embody that impartiality. Mr Minister, instead of seeing you making tough statements at the door of the Rue de la Loi, we are now expecting a very tough proposal from you here in the Chamber. What will be the proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Prince Laurent may fall back on a not unkind law of donation. It receives more than 300 000 euros annually in exchange for a very limited number of commitments. That is not human law for us, but rather an attractive prince's right. In connection with these limited obligations, the shoe breaks here and there. Over and over again he has contacts with foreign heads of state, without contacting the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs in advance. In the past he was already addressed, but apparently that did not impress the person concerned. Prime Minister, after his most recent release last summer at the Chinese Embassy celebration, you spoke of a proportional financial penalty. We'll follow you there. We think that those who do not want to hear should feel. You also said you'd hear the person involved, and just then he got sick. Too bad. We sincerely wish him well. Meanwhile, you heard his lawyer and a letter from Prince Laurent's attorney fell into your mailbox last week. Breaches of human rights are a heavy, yet so gratuite accusation to you. We may laugh at it and find it funny, but it is difficult for people in the world who are really confronted with human rights violations. Prime Minister, what elements are still missing to make a decision? In what time will you submit anything to the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u31	Prime Minister, Prince Laurent does not care about protocol as much as a vegetarian does about steak tartars. You announced a proportional sanction to him on 8 August, after his umpteenth rites, i.e. a partial deduction of his contribution. In practice, however, nothing of this kind comes into the house. Next week, the 2018 budget will be voted on and the government will provide EUR 314 000 for Prince Laurent. That is even EUR 6 000 more than this year. The procedure's jammed. The government needs to hear the prince, but he's sick. Which disease, that remains vague. Maybe it's stress caused by his heavy existence as a ribbon cutter or maybe it's a depression, because he realizes that he's been doing completely pointless things for far too long. We do not know and we do not need to know, because the right to privacy is also a human right. Laurent's lawyer cited human rights and made a number of legal observations in a letter. He's done that deliberately in public. So I assume that you will be able to respond to that publicly today. It contains some pertinent remarks. It certainly makes it clear that the allocation of a political role to princes, and as far as we are concerned kings, does not belong at all in a modern democratic rule of law. It's not like this anymore. It cannot be financially justified and, as we see it today, it leads to legal wells-nothing games. Mr Prime Minister, is there going to be a financial penalty at all? And when will it be? Or is the government going to focus on the essence, namely the abolition of donations for princes and princesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you for your interest in an important matter. I want to confirm what I said a few times in the assembly. There's legislation around the dots. This indeed means that there are obligations and rights. Everyone knows exactly what the law means in this case. In July, on behalf of the government, I stated that we would start a procedure in the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the legal framework. We did the same, namely in September. In accordance with the law, I have received a mandate from the Council of Ministers for a hearing with Prince Laurent or his lawyer. It's his right to do that. The hearing took place. We have heard many legal arguments. It was necessary to look at those legal arguments. We are now in the final stage of a government initiative. To be more precise, my intention is to bring the dossier to the Council of Ministers by the end of this year. For obvious legal reasons, I do not intend to make a legal comment on the dossier. If I did, I'd make a legal mistake. That's not my intention. I want to guarantee legal certainty. That's important. That's why I can only give you the following information. Before the end of this year, the dossier will come to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Eventually, we didn't learn much from it. All we know is we're not gonna get a Sinterklaas present, but maybe we're gonna get a Christmas present. I hope that the Christmas present will be discussed here in plenary, as it should be by law. Mr. Prime Minister, we are talking about dotations here. Laurent has already received 5 million from the taxpayer in recent years. The question is: to do what? Princess Astrid has already received 6 million euros to do what? We can only see that both excellences will receive an additional EUR 6 000 under the 2018 budget. Prime Minister, every citizen of this country would like to have such a Win for Life. How can you keep explaining that? The conclusion is therefore: abolish the law and abolish the dotations. I believe that's the solution to the whole story.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u34	Prime Minister, our party was never in favour of the law on donations to the royal family. We weren't, we're not, and we never will be. However, we are legalists. This means that the legislation must also be complied with. As I have just said, our good friend Laurent's shoe is too often pinched there. Legislation is there to be complied with. If it is not respected, compliance must be enforced. I am also pleased with your answer, because you will finally be submitting a decision to the Council of Ministers before the end of the year. We're looking forward to it. As far as we are concerned, it should not be a symbolic sanction, not a Christmas present as suggested. It must be a very clear financial sanction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u35	Prime Minister, the only positive thing about the whole affair is that we were able to laugh loudly with Belgium and the royal family abroad. From the BBC to the Dutch, German, Danish, Swiss, Argentinean and even American newspapers and news sites, everyone has been able to gloat about our scandal prince. I would like to give them a great deal of pleasure in having a good laugh with Belgium and the royal family. There is plenty of opportunity for this with the government. For the tax-paying Fleming, there's nothing funny about the royal donations anymore. Instead of vague and frighteningly slow procedures, I had expected the government to have the power of change, limiting itself to the essence. There is a majority in Flanders to simply abolish the donations of Laurent and Astrid. There's nothing dishonorable about working for a living, Prime Minister. All the princes of the other European royal houses do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u36	Mr President, first of all, let me tell you all the emotion that has plagued the cdH group since the announcement of the death of Mr Philippe Maystadt and thank you for the words you have spoken about him. Prime Minister, at the heart of the summer, you made a strong impression by announcing the agreement reached in your government, an ambitious agreement with some interesting a priori progress on corporate tax, capital taxation and, for example, debilitated incomes. Since then, time has passed. We are now in December and, like Sister Anne, we still see nothing coming. No text has been tabled on the table of Parliament and whole sections of this agreement appear to be hypothecated, subject to bail, threatened. Since July, difficulties have accumulated. First of all, the fundamental difficulties: I think, in particular, of the measure relating to debilitated incomes which seems to be unanimous against it in the head of the social partners who are concerned about a form of unfair competition or even intra-Belgian social dumping. Secondly, legal difficulties: the Conseil d'État has recalculated, on two occasions, the tax on securities accounts, among others. Then, the budgetary difficulties that will be discussed again next week: both the Court of Auditors and the Commission and even prominent members of your majority have issued "doubts" – to remain cautious – in relation to the budgetary neutrality of the ISOC reform or to the return on the tax on securities accounts. Then again, political difficulties since obviously within your government, of your majority, some push on the accelerator when others pull on the hand brake, better guarantee to cause a head-on. Finally, you will inevitably face scheduling problems since time is running out if you want to bring all your measures into force before January 1, 2018, so we have very little time left for their review. Prime Minister, I do not expect you to be able to give a very precise account of the discussions that are probably taking place in Kern, but perhaps you can take stock of the situation nonetheless. Above all, I would like to ask you, if I may, about your reform strategy. The construction sites you have opened are important. How do you intend to finalize them? Will you prefer the approach that I would call "politician" by remaining faithful at all costs to the agreement of the summer so as to maintain a trophy for each of the parties of the majority, even if it goes to the hussard with poorly embroiled or banctal reforms? Or, you will be inspired by Philippe Maystadt who published a book in 1988, a kind of discourse on the method, entitled Listen and then decide. His words are still up to date. Are you ready to hear the criticisms, to give you time for dialogue not only within the government but also with those actors who are not all ill-intentioned to allow the widest possible support for these reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u37	Prime Minister, the government had an agreement in July. It was a full-bodied party. You've also been partying at Tomorrowland. It was again ambiance générale. We've been five months. Apparently, there are problems with the application of these measures. You've been given a lot of advice. I'll come back to that later. CD&V had fundamental comments on the chord. Will these remarks be thrown into the garbage can again or will you take a little account of it? They turn out to be very important. It's still not secondary. On the account-title tax, the Conseil d'État states that it is discriminatory, because the richest will not have to pay it. A tax had to be invented for the middle class. That became the impact tax. The others, with nominating shares, don't pay, so the middle class had to do it. There is the defiscalisation at 6 000 euros. There we really are in the internal social dumping. I met many small independents who told me that they were not happy with the MR, which organizes tax competition within the country. The small independents are fading and they will defy 6 000 euros! And then the budget! The Court of Auditors says that it is not budget neutral, the European institutions also refuse it. In despair, you say that there is someone who will give you reason: you ask the National Bank of Belgium and it is unable to answer you if this budget is budget neutral. Prime Minister, you have received a great deal of opinion from the social partners, from independent institutions, who tell you that your summer agreement is not working. You have a partner who has become accustomed to seeing all his remarks put in the trash. Prime Minister, are you going to go in and take no account of these remarks? Or are you going to reopen the discussions and review the summer agreement? Will you take these opinions and comments from colleagues on the CD&V into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u38	Prime Minister, what remains of this summer agreement? Not much! A triumphal communication at the end of July, celebrated in Tomorrowland. And then, a castle of cards. There is little left of this triple agreement on the tax on securities accounts, the reform of ISOC and the defiscalisation of €6,000 per year for some workers. You have managed to create trouble and unanimity against this text on the part of all the opinion bodies, the Court of Auditors, the European Commission, which very negatively evaluates the budgetary balance in particular in structural terms, the Council of State, which says that the stated intentions of the text are not met, that you create inequality between taxpayers, that the text is not in line with European rules, which will result in significant additional costs. And the National Labour Council, unanimously, denounces an unfair competition that will be introduced with regard to SMEs and the self-employed, not to mention the Higher Council of Volunteers. What are you going to do with these different opinions? What will you do with these advices? I say it in Dutch for colleagues on the CD&V. Are you going to go on an adventure, in suicide bombers, as is your usual practice, or are you going to correct the texts from a budgetary point of view to achieve a balance that is important rather than a new deficit that is expected to exceed one billion euros, if you add up the uncertainties, from a legal point of view but above all from an opportunistic point of view, to maintain the right measures (capital taxation, a reduced tax for SMEs and self-employed people) and to remove these measures, which will again deregulate the labour market? Will you, this time, behave as a visionary rather than a suicide bomber?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these inquiries which allow me to observe that some members of the opposition have been particularly distracted in recent days and weeks. Mr. Dispa, you're calling on Sister Anne to indicate that you don't see anything coming. Perhaps it is the reasoning of the four-day week of the PTB that contagions and causes parliamentarians to take more and more leave and not be present in Parliament to see what is happening there. So I'll explain it to you. In July, we did indeed take very structural, very important and fundamental decisions on the 2018 budget, which was widely debated in parliament and even approved in committee. This budget also takes into account significantly improved 2017 figures compared to the European Commission's forecast a year earlier. We fully assume the fact that two thirds of the way has already been covered, such as the fact that we do not want a stupid and blind austerity that would break the dynamics of growth and increasingly proven results. Mr Hedebouw, I am very impressed by the strength of the change of the PTB, of crash van de verandering. For you, the small percentage of the population that holds more than 500,000 euros on a security account belongs to the middle class. This is a rather curious interpretation and a spectacular evolution of the doctrine! During the summer, we validated some 60 economic and social measures that affect the modernisation of the labour market, the full implementation of the tax shift as decided, the upgrading of purchasing power – for example, in the case of popular capitalism, the participation of employees in the profits of companies, the fight against poverty with additional envelopes mobilized for those for whom it is most difficult. Fifty or 60 measures have been decided politically - and that's where I wake up your collective memories. Some have been transposed into the programme law, dozens of articles have been debated in parliament; texts have been tabled for a very long time. The recovery law was submitted to the Council of State. I hope you understand that there are some rules in this country! It was even decided, for an important point relating to taxation, to request a second opinion from the Council of State to take account of its comments as broadly as possible. Yesterday, we received the National Bank's opinion on corporate tax. He's in the process of analysis. We consult intensively. What's left? Of the 60 measures, 90% are settled. There are still three points left. Firstly, the question of finalising the purchasing power measure on the EUR 500 where opinions were given. We look at how to take them into consideration. The second element is corporate tax. Perhaps with disappointment, you will have observed that the National Bank is rather positive about the impact of this extremely important reform. This opinion will certainly be debated at Parliament level. Thirdly, it is the issue of securities accounts, in which one or the other of the Council of State's remarks is being analysed for the time being. So I can't accept that kind of fable that the opposition would like to share, that there would be nothing left, there would be sand left. Sixty measures, never seen in an extremely ambitious socio-economic agreement, structural reforms! Indeed, the work is being carried out seriously. We look at the opinions to see how we can implement them in the most intelligent way possible and then bring texts to Parliament for your democratic debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u40	Thank you, Prime Minister. I am following the work of Parliament closely, particularly in the Finance Committee. No later than yesterday afternoon or yesterday morning, we were unable to know whether or not your stimulus bill would be considered next Tuesday. Forgive me! I didn't interrupt you, Prime Minister. You glorify all the measures that have been taken and I write them to you. I asked you about three points. These are still not points of detail. On these three points, we remain in expectation. The projects you have opened on these three major dossiers are too important to be completed in a rush. "Listen and then decide," said Philippe Maystadt. I feel like you're doing exactly the opposite. You decide and then listen, but without really hearing any criticism of the decisions you made in the middle of the summer. I very much regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u41	Prime Minister, you say that everything is settled except the securities tax, which is still a problem. Furthermore, everything is settled, except, of course, the problem of the budget neutrality of taxes on companies. Everything is taken care of, there is no problem for the EUR 6 000. The Council of State had some comments, but everything is settled. Prime Minister, this is not right! We must take into account all the opinions given to you, in particular by the social partners and the Council of State, to tell you that your measures do not go well! You're running. I think in Tomorrowland, there was a sign. You were partying and when dj Jackmaster asked you to get off his podium, there was a sign. The sign that this agreement was not going to hold the road! DJ Jackmaster is no ordinary DJ. He's the one who said, "Get off my stage!" That's a signal! So it just wouldn't work! Colleagues on the right, take into account the opinions given, otherwise you will not only have to go down from a podium but you will have to face the political resistance of the entire population against your measures!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u42	Prime Minister, there is only one question! When will we have these texts? When will Parliament be able to dispose of these texts? These are three out of sixty points, but they are the three cornerstones of your agreement: corporate tax reform, the CD&V trophy – we don't talk about the Arco file – and the Vld trophy. When will we have these texts? There is a form of ideological blindness in the head of your government in relation to these measures. You are blind to all the opinions given to you, which tell you that it does not work from a budgetary point of view, that it does not work from a legal point of view and that from the point of view of opportunity, you are in the wrong. Will you correct your texts? Prime Minister, in life, we grow up recognizing our mistakes. In political life too, and even more!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u43	Madam Minister, I had put my question to Minister De Croo, but I am sure you will be wonderfully replacing him. There has been quite a stir in Antwerp about the possible sale of a very large post office in Antwerp-Noord, in the Seefhoek, of almost 4 000 square meters for the price of 1 450 000 euros. The property has a cadastral income of 43 249 euros to a mosque association that wants to make it an Islamic cultural center. This weekend there are several fund-raisers, in total for more than 700 000 euros, in various mosques in Antwerp to fund that project. Until a week ago, when we provided the information on this subject, the Bpost Real Estate website stated that the building had not yet been sold, but that a compromise had already been signed. We were told to whom, namely to the non-profit association Mosque Omar. After the commotion that arose, that message disappeared from the bpost website. If I can believe the bpost website, the building is apparently no longer for sale, which is of course a good thing. However, I am not a light-believer in this regard and I would have liked to have heard from the minister responsible about the situation. Is there a compromise, is the building sold, will it be sold, to whom will it be sold, are there negotiations? What's the point? Let me be clear: there are now 62 mosques in Antwerp. This would be the 63rd and, by the way, the largest in Antwerp and, by the way, the largest in our country, twice the size of the famous Turkish mosque planned in Ghent. It would be the 19th mosque in Antwerp-North, an area of fifty to sixty thousand people. As far as that goes, trop is too much, enough is enough, full is full. What are the plans of bpost, because nobody gets wise anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u44	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, I have received the following information from Mr De Croo. bpost put the building in the Wilgenstraat in Antwerp for sale through the ordinary procedure. This means that the sale was announced on the web pages of bpost and in other specialised media. All interested parties could make an offer under closed cover. The property is then assigned to the most offering. The city of Antwerp has a pre-purchase right that it can exercise after the compromise was signed by both parties. It is not up to bpost to decide on the future destination of the building.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u45	An interesting, albeit somewhat cryptic answer, Madam Secretary. If I can read between the lines, the building is indeed sold to the relevant mosque organization. The city has a pre-purchase right and has also exercised this pre-purchase right. Or is that a wrong interpretation? [[The minister says she doesn't know that.]] You say you don't know. So it remains a well-kept mystery about which the government does not want to clarify. In Antwerp a lot of questions are asked about this, not only in the media but also by the Antwerp people and the inhabitants of Antwerp-North, who are increasingly seeing their neighborhood Islamicize. Let me make it clear that I find all this a little strange. Bpost sells a giant building. In that neighbourhood there is a need for youth care, cultural centres and all kinds of facilities. And yet one finds it useful and necessary to offer a mosque organization the opportunity to make this the 19th mosque of the district concerned. I would have liked to see a more decisive action by bpost in this area. I hope that the city of Antwerp will exercise the right of pre-purchase and that this mosque will be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u46	Minister, as you know, since October, home nurses have been experiencing difficulties in implementing a new way of billing their benefits. The professionals concerned point to problems of reading the electronic identity card, missing encoded services, problems in the transmission of information and, above all, delays in payments. These have led to dramatic consequences for some workers. As you explained on Tuesday, an evaluation was conducted by the INAMI Insurance Committee. You also mentioned that some software that had been put late on the market would be adapted – and that is very good. However, have you set a specific timetable for action? Didn't you go too fast in the installation of this new system? Would it not be wiser to postpone this measure altogether? More generally, do you intend to review the classification of the services of these healthcare professionals who, still today, perform acts that are insufficiently or not at all remunerated? I am thinking, just to mention two examples, of the administration of medicines or of blood pressure. Finally, minister, if I ask you today, it is because it is my responsibility that the doors of your office are desperately closed to the requests for meetings made by these nurses who certainly deserve much more respect on your part. I'd like to know the reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u47	Minister, we have worked together and with you to address the problem of independent nurses as part of the implementation of this new system for the third-party nursing fee. In October and November, there were, of course, concerns, mainly due to invoicing releases as a result of software problems for which you are not responsible. One thing is certain: independent nurses have more to do than solve administrative problems. We know, Madam Minister, that you worked on this case. Could you take a look at the situation? Were the October and November invoices paid? Are there still software problems? If so, have any steps been taken to resolve them? It would also appear, from what we have come back from the nurses themselves, that Solidaris mutuality is particularly distinguished. Is there a problem with Solidaris mutuality and its software? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u48	Minister, it has been several weeks since I asked you about the problem of reading ID cards, but also about the problem of charging care for home care nurses. You denied the problems first. Then you didn't bother organizing a meeting with the nurses to listen to them and solve the problems. This week, you refused my proposal to postpone this reading of identity cards by a few months. Your refusal is incomprehensible since you accepted for the doctors. Finally, following our interventions, after six weeks, you instructed the mutuals. But it doesn't solve anything. Madam Minister, while it makes sense to fight fraud, it is totally unacceptable to impose a banality system that you also charge nurses. This bank software must therefore be adapted as a matter of urgency. The problems, which persist today, must be solved. Secondly, you have instructed mutuals to pay, but at the same time, you know very well that the law of 2015 is still applicable. So, can you, yes or no, guarantee that in the coming months, even if software problems persist, it will be well paid? Thirdly, the daily reading of an identity card makes no sense. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to move on to a monthly reading, for example. This file is really the drop of water that makes the vase overflow. Whether it's for home nurses or, more generally, for the nursing profession, measure after measure, you're tearing the profession apart. KCE has clearly demonstrated under-funding in this area, especially for home nurses. Minister, when are you going to bother to meet with the nurses, listen to them and work with them, both for the future of the profession and for the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u49	Thank you for your questions. As I explained a few days ago in committee, this measure aims at better cooperation between healthcare providers and mutuals. It aims at administrative simplification and also, to some extent, the prevention of possible fraud by healthcare providers and patients. Nurses are looking for a proper setting. Discussions with nurses' organizations that took place last week and still today show that the measure is being supported. However, there are still concerns about practical execution for software providers and mutuals. The decision, which dates from 3 October 2016, entered into force on 1 October 2017 in consultation with the actors in the field, namely the Commission of Practitioners of Nursing, Mutualities and INAMI. Nurses were notified in time of the new regulations. No problems were expected. This was confirmed by the Insurance Committee on 25 September. According to the Committee which met last Monday, the measure concerning the reading of identity cards is generally well applied by home-based nurses, but it is clear that some of them have not yet fully integrated this measure, which is normal in the context of such an amendment. A comparison between October and September shows an increase in the volume of billing releases of 5%. In this 5 per cent, 60 per cent of the invoices rejected in October could already be reintroduced the following day and have been paid in the meantime. Since then, releases have declined sharply, demonstrating that the sector has made the necessary adjustments. Two out of sixteen software programs have experienced problems and are responsible for 85% of releases. The Insurance Committee considers that, for a very limited number of users of these software, no payment has been received for the period October-November. This affects 250 out of almost 30,000 people. That is why the Insurance Committee recommended, on Monday, that all the mutuals draw up a complete inventory of the nurses concerned and that they make payments up to 90% of the amount of the invoices introduced. Another audit was carried out today and I can tell you that all insurers have demonstrated the same will. Adapting to changes is not obvious. But this simplification allows for better cooperation with insurers and care providers, and also allows the nurse to devote more time to patients. So we all need to invest in time and energy. However, a monitoring is still under way and problems are being solved on software that is still experiencing difficulties. I would like to add that nurses are the first providers of care to have experienced technological changes in the application of eID reading at home; they should be commended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u50	Madam Minister, today we are talking about women and men who play a vital role in our society: nurses at home, whose role, in addition, will be strengthened in the future with the ageing of the population and because you want to shorten hospital stays. And yet, their future is uncertain and full of questions. Minister, I ask you to support them in the work that everyone does on a daily basis, at the bedside of their patients, and to hear from them about the difficulties they face.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is important that there is less harassment; it is also important that caregivers be able to receive their fees. You've taken steps. I'm a witness to that, we worked with the nurses, and you did a good job of consulting the area. I am pleased to know that insurers have also decided to work together at the highest level and in all areas. It is to be hoped that the problems encountered, particularly those in a mutuality in particular, will be solved. Thank you for your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u52	Madam Minister, I am particularly concerned that you are talking about administrative simplification in this matter. Do you know that today, nurses lose up to two hours a day with the daily reading of the ID card you have imposed? A daily reading doesn't make any sense, especially since the software offered to them is inconvenient. Once again, I propose that you make a profound change to this device. It is clearly necessary to move on to a much less administratively burdensome system, which will allow you to fight fraud in the same way, since that is the original objective. It is not only the fault of the software or the nurses who, in your opinion, would find it difficult to adapt. You made the choice in 2015 to have a law passed. You took the royal decree late on these famous software, on the eve of the coming into force, when you had two years to do so. You have to straighten the bar today. Madam Minister, I would also ask you to meet with the nurses at home yourself - which you have not yet done once - so that we can, for all the files that concern them, finally take stock of what they are living on a daily basis and identify the advances that are essential for them and for the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a compulsory reintegration plan for every disabled person was an important spearhead in the government agreement. They wanted to tackle the problem of the increasing number of long-term sick. That was also right, because the 2016 annual report of the RIZIV shows that almost four hundred thousand people were long-term sick at home last year. That number continues to rise rapidly. That is very bad for those people and also disastrous for the financial sustainability of our social security. The N-VA Group therefore fully supported you when you introduced the reintegration plan about a year ago. At the same time, however, we repeatedly warned you that, in our view, the approved concept still had many shortcomings and, in particular, that success could only be achieved if a number of conditions were met: away from a strict medical approach towards a more multidisciplinary approach, a user-friendly IT platform for communication between doctors and sufficiently trained, but also independent doctors with sufficient support. The many contacts with the sector, which I still have, have shown for some time that in practice things are not going well. This week, the top of the bill came with a call from the health insurance doctors, who pointed out that there are too few doctors, that there is insufficient administrative support, that there is a lack of information technology and that the health insurance funds do not give sufficient priority to the means of integration. However, you specifically allocated an envelope of EUR 3.14 million for this purpose. Madam Minister, how is it that the framework measures, which everyone knew were necessary, were not introduced or not implemented sufficiently? What will you do to improve the situation in the short term? How will you oblige sickness funds to use the additional budgets they have received for what they serve, in particular for the integration of people into the labour market? When will you evaluate and, above all, adjust the methodology of the reintegration plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u54	Madam Secretary, my question goes in the same direction. We know that there are at present 392 000 long-term sick people, in other words people who have been ill for more than a year. In the last ten years an increase of 70% has been recorded. The cost of benefits is EUR 5 billion, not to be underestimated. Madam Secretary, those who are ill must be helped and, first and foremost, cured. This requires the best treatment and often sufficient time. Our government gives these people sufficient time and treatment, but we note that many long-term unemployed do want and can get back to work. They are people who, for example, have had a burn-out or another disease and who, after some time, have been able to take on a certain task package for one or two days. The government has made a huge effort to reintegrate them. For this we rely on various partners, both on employees and employers, but above all on doctors, so that they can work together with patients to see what tasks are possible, how many days they can be integrated back into business, into their own business or elsewhere. Today, however, we hear that the doctors of the sickness funds are unable to cope with the question. They say that they are too few to take on the task of reintegration. Madam Minister, it has already been said that an additional EUR 3.14 million has been given to the mutualities to carry out this task. What measures will you take to ensure that these resources are used effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u55	Madam Minister, for the sake of clarity, we agree to accompany and reintegrate people who have been ill for a long time or have a chronic illness into the labour market with adapted work or timetables. A lot of employees want that, by the way. When I was a minister, I talked to enough patients and ex-patients about it. However, that is the theory, the objective. Now we are looking at the practice. There are three hundred counseling doctors in the mutualities who have eight hundred thousand files to accompany. We note that many employers do not want to find flexible solutions for re-integration and reintegration into the company at all. The result is that half of the workers who have been ill for a long time will simply be dismissed for medical force majeure after a visit to the counsellor. However, you must be aware that these people will be dismissed without prior notice. Current policies will reduce the chances of fewer workers in the labour market. There are also many social tragedies. Those involved have often given the best of themselves in the workplace for 30 years, but are now getting a donkey's stamp. Madam Secretary, how do you intend to correct that story so that you can realize your finality, people back in the workplace? How do you intend, above all, to respond to employers in that story?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions about the doctors who advise you, which is something other than control doctors. It is true that I have spent money on this and paid to the sickness funds through the administration costs. The sickness funds themselves are responsible for the appointment and administrative support for those matters for which the money was intended, as well as for computer adjustments, so that that legal task can be carried out. Mr Spoorten, it is indeed a priority of the policy to start the reintegration paths as quickly as possible as the situation of the people concerned permits and if guidance can be given to work, whether in cooperation with regional professional institutions or not. We have anticipated this, because the complaints about too much work and tasks of the consulting doctors do not date from today. We have therefore concluded a multi-annual pact with the sickness funds. In order to improve their functioning as performer and manager of compulsory health insurance, we have included section 4, which deals with the core tasks: what the counsellor himself should do, what can happen in his team, for example by social assistants or through a multidisciplinary approach, and what matters can simply be handled administratively. In the Pact, we have agreed with the sickness funds clear, time-bound objectives to address all these problems. One of the questions is when this can be implemented. A working group was set up under the chairmanship of the Administrator-General of the RIZIV and an action plan was drawn up on how the core tasks can be carried out further or reoriented to paramedics or removed and handled purely administratively. The final report will be delivered on 31 March 2018. In the meantime, the kettle has indeed been overboiled and I certainly understand the problems that arise on the ground. I think that is serious, because it is in everyone's interest for counsellors to be able to make and implement their decisions in full independence. That is also the task which the law prescribes for them. We therefore take the message from the medical advisors seriously. We are not waiting for the final report, but we are already in consultation with the sickness funds next week. There is indeed a problem with the implementation and support they receive on the ground; there is a delay. We will look at what additional solutions are possible to remedy this in the short term. So first comes the key task debate, but in the meantime we will consider what can already be done to test this with the counsellors themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u57	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are taking the criticism and distress of the counsellors seriously and will step up your efforts to strengthen the IT platform and other support measures. I would also like to call for a review of the methodology and further demedicalisation, away from the doctors. I'm glad you're talking about paramedics. I would like to add a few more re-integration specialists. Perhaps consideration should be given to integrating the initial assessment, the quickscan that is now happening in disks and ping-pong-wise. This will initially cost a little more, but I think it will be much more effective and deliver more results. In addition, I would like to support the creation of an independent pool of counsellors under the RIZIV. Mr Van Peel has tabled a resolution on this. It will allow physicians to make sure, with better support and a less medical approach, that people find their way back to the labour market. In particular, they can work in an independent way. We cannot deny that there is a certain conflict of interest when the sickness funds are paid per disabled person, as opposed to people they lead to the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I think it is important that you recognise the problem and that you respond quickly to it. The aim must be that someone who has been ill or has not been ill should be able to work if we are not to make a distinction, and all support is welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for answering Mr Spooren's and Mrs Somers' questions. Advising physicians have the task of looking at what people can still do and what they may no longer be able to do. But counsellors are not specialists in guiding people to work, and they do not always have a thorough knowledge of the concrete workplace of the people. Indeed, we need to look at a multidisciplinary team, at reintegration consultants or something like that. In that respect, I am on the same line as Mr Spoorten. However, I have not received an answer to my question as to what extent employers can be responded to. In the Netherlands, for example, employers who do not cooperate must pay at least two years' wages. Maybe you should think about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, health supplements have been a problem for a long time, but now they really are running out. In 2016, Honorary Supplements in hospitals increased by almost 10% compared to 2015. In certain hospitals, supplements go up to fivefold. Last year 80 to 90% of the patient invoices in a single room consisted of pay and room supplements. That's what figures from a CM study show. There is no doubt that the consequences of this are disastrous. Patients with hospitalisation insurance in certain hospitals direct immediately to a single room, it happens. We all know that. The number of multi-bed rooms is falling steadily and in some hospitals there is hardly any choice. That's what's happening. Patients refuse if they don't take a single room, I hope they're still exceptions, but they do. A simple hospitalisation insurance is no longer enough to avoid heavy costs during a withdrawal. We have learned that from a testimony today. The reform of hospital funding should also have got rid of those supplements, but that is not happening. On the contrary, you say that you have done enough and that it is now up to other players on the field. Madam Secretary, it is your responsibility. Together with the savings made in recent years and the consequences for the patient, this disrupts our entire health landscape. You really can't just shove that off. You need to take an initiative. Together with others, of course, but you have to make the move. So I would like to hear from you what you will do so that people are no longer forced to take expensive hospitalisation insurance, which, unfortunately, many of us cannot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, thank you for this question. You know that I have already taken various measures to stop those supplements, such as not being able to ask for supplements in day hospitalization in multiple rooms, limiting supplements for example the reconstruction of a warm breast in a single room and also completely abolishing it in a double room, limiting supplements for clinical biology and others. With the abolition of pay supplements in the double and multiple rooms, we now see in the figures that the supplements in the single rooms are rising even faster. The supplements and room supplements are therefore increasingly a source of income for the different hospitals. Hospitals use these resources to finance care for all patients and to ensure that the same quality of care is available for each patient, regardless of whether he or she is in a single or multiple room. We've already talked about it. No patient can be required to choose a single room. When you visit hospitals as often as I do, you will find that there are far from just single rooms everywhere. I agree, however, that too many and too many pay supplements are required. That is why I explicitly asked the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds to analyse the problem and to put forward proposals to halt it. The discussions on this matter are in full swing. They should take place in a serene atmosphere, which is, however, crossed by some shouting and yelling. However, I am waiting for their proposals. The representatives of the hospitals are also being interviewed. Hospital reform should ensure that, by working in networks and using resources more efficiently, there is a real payment of hospital costs for patient care. In the meantime, simply abolishing the pay supplements that only exist in single rooms is not an option at the moment. In that case, we will put hospitals in financial trouble, which the patient will feel. However, I agree and I also believe that, by pushing up the supplements, the hospitals cut off the branch on which they sit. Mrs Jiroflée, people are not going to accept that anymore. In that respect, you will find a supporter in me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u62	Madam Minister, I have started by saying that I recognise what you have already done, but today we are in a situation where people pay for the same care five times as much in some places. That's just completely absurd. Are we going to hospitals for rich people and hospitals for ordinary people? We fit in with that, Madam Secretary. It's called class medicine. I think you have a responsibility in that. I hope your initiatives will be successful. I am sure you will have to follow this closely, because the savings you have already made could lead to you being responsible for class medicine. In any case, we will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Finance and the Budget we have paid very little attention in recent months to what is currently happening at European level. Next week there will be a European summit on the issue of the euro area, and that is why I would like to know the position of the Belgian Government and of you, Minister for Finance, on a number of points. I'll be very brief. Firstly, there is a proposal to create a European currency fund along the lines of the IMF. Now we have a financial emergency fund that can make 500 billion available in times of crisis. It's some kind of emergency system. What is the Belgian Government's position on such a kind of IMF at European level? Secondly, the European Commission proposes that the President of the eurogroup should be part of the European Commission and, on the other hand, that the European Finance Commissioner should also be the President of the eurogroup. There is a lot of discussion about this. President Macron, among others, is in favour of this. Thirdly, there would be a European budget for the euro area. There are also a lot of discussions about this. The Germans say it shouldn't be a transfer case. Fourthly, countries that are not now members of the euro area, such as Denmark and Sweden, are trying to give a put-in option. Finally, with regard to the budget, we are now trying to translate the Treaty on stability and coordination into European law, which means that the international budgetary agreements of 2012 will now be legally translated. There would also be an independent budget watchdog. After all, who is judging the European Commission's yellow and red cards? How's that going? What is the Belgian Government's position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u64	Mr Van Rompuy, the European Commission's proposals are very valuable. I do not need to remind you that monetary union is a house that is not finished today and to which things have to be done. Each of these points is clearly a good starting point for further discussion. The proposals, being what they are, obviously need to be further developed. That can still go in different directions. Moreover, the question arises as to how far these matters can be dealt with within the current Convention and whether there should be additions or changes to the Convention, with all the problems involved? I believe that, before we start the discussion definitively, we must take sufficient account of the individual sensitivities of the Member States on each subject, which dare to differ. In any case, the proposals provide a good starting point for further discussion, which must be discussed in any case. After all, we cannot leave monetary union in the state it is in today. I take advantage of your question to point out another point. We now have a checklist from the European Commission, but in the short term there is still an important priority, namely the completion of the Banking Union. The economic climate today is favourable. Financially, too, things are in any case good. Before the change in the economic situation, however, there is going to be a time when, as always, we must at least ensure that the banking union, which has already taken very big steps, is completed. We'll talk about risk reduction and risk spreading, please, in the right order. As a final part of this banking union, there is the common European deposit system, to which, given the sensitivities of several countries, we can only achieve by effectively reducing risk and spreading risks. So there's a lot of work to be done. The Commission has provided good elements which can undoubtedly be continued. There is, however, an even shorter-term problem which we absolutely must deal with as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. There is a lot of work to be done. Two to three years ago, we were faced with a crisis in the euro area. It is important that the five points you have raised are also clearly laid down in legislation and that independent bodies judge them. I hope that we will never find ourselves in a crisis like that eight years ago, and the Banking Union was an important step forward. I believe that we should report on this in detail in the Committee on Finance, because this can have great implications in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u66	Mr President, Minister, we heard the crazy news that a driver was stopped by the police and immediately had to pay an outstanding fine of EUR 330. There is nothing strange about that in itself, if it were not that the fine was linked to another car in the fleet of a leasing company. Then, of course, it becomes Kafkaian, because it is argued that any driver of a vehicle from that fleet can be held liable for paying this fine. If a car is linked to a natural person, we know who the usual driver is, but if the car is linked to a legal person it is much more difficult, because it is more anonymous. In many cases we do not know who the usual driver is. In your policy paper, I read that you see a possible solution in sending fines to the companies in question, which can then pay the fines without forwarding identification data to the Crossroads Bank of the Vehicles. Mr Dumery and I have worked diligently over the last few months, through many informal contacts within the majority, to find a structural solution to this problem. We have found that a system already exists; there is already a link to the database. We have also noticed that there is a protocol agreement with the important Renta organisation, which represents 95% of the rental companies. All that's left to do is change the law. We have therefore tabled a legislative proposal asking, or even demanding, that the rental companies be obliged to communicate real-time the identification data of their tenants to the Crossroads Bank of the Vehicles. In that sense there are two very important words: firstly, it is mandatory, and secondly, it must be done in real time. At present, this is not enough. My question to you is very simple, Minister. Can you agree with our proposal? If so, I hope that we can reach an agreement as soon as possible in order to avoid this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u67	My colleague, the situation you are talking about is much more complex than what you are saying. There are two categories of car rental companies: independents and companies, leasing cars. As far as the independents are concerned, we will be sending the minutes as we usually do. If the self-employed person does not disclose the driver's name, the owner of the vehicle will be fined because he does not disclose the name of the person driving the car. The rights of the defence must be respected and the minutes of the driving should therefore not be sent to the owner of the vehicle. There are also vehicles that are rented by leasing companies. In the first case, the vehicle is part of the Renta database, where the vehicle made available has only one driver. Automatically, the invitation to pay or transaction will be transmitted to the usual driver. In a second case, the vehicle is made available to multiple drivers, so the company which owns the vehicle must be held accountable. If it is unable to communicate, a report will then be sent to the legal person who owns the vehicle for non-communication of the driver's name at the time the offence was committed. We have permanent contacts with Renta and the more the Renta file will be fed with correct data, the less we will have this kind of difficulty. The profound difficulty we are experiencing concerns multi-conductor vehicles which belong to companies or independents, for example in the construction sector or in the municipal administrations. For the rest, I am very sensitive to your project and we are trying to feed as much as possible the database that Renta makes available to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u68	Minister, our bill is perfectly complementary to what you say. The problem can therefore be solved. It has also been checked out at Renta and they can also agree perfectly with this. The problem of the unknown driver goes much further. We all know that rental cars are sometimes used to commit acts of terror. Think of Nice, London, Berlin and New York. Drug traffickers, smugglers and other criminals also abuse these modes of transport. In fact, one should know who, where and when is behind the wheel or who is the usual driver or liable. We are convinced that an alarm should go off when a criminal hires a car. Minister, if we reach out, we will be able to solve the problem very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u69	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have just learned that the Council of State has rejected the request for suspension of the Flemish Government's decree on the reform of driving training, a suspension requested by the Federal State. Minister, what are the consequences of this decision of the Council of State for the driver candidates? At the same time, you have repeatedly indicated your intention to consult with the Regions on the issue of driving licences more generally in order to find solutions. Can you tell us where these steps are and what are the results and next steps to be taken to find the right solutions in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject is quite technical. As you mentioned in your question, the Council of State has in fact ruled on the request for suspension made by the Federal State against the Flemish Government's decree of 9 June 2017 but not on the request for annulment. This has two concrete implications. Firstly, this means that the Council of State has not yet analysed the substance of the case and that a subsequent annulment of the Flemish Government's order of 9 June still remains possible. Fortunately for the inhabitants of the Flemish Region, such a cancellation would in no way call into question the validity of the provisional or definitive driving licence. Secondly, the Council of State confirms, by its decision, that the Flemish Region can ask the Flemish municipalities to verify that the guide of a candidate driver has been trained, which has never been called into question by the federal authority. However, the Council of State does not, in any case, indicate that this training as a guide has become a condition for the issue of the provisional driving licence. Moreover, Article 9/1 of the Decree of the Flemish Government, which provides for this verification of the formation of the guide by the municipalities, does not state either that it must be carried out before the provisional driving licence is issued or that it is a condition for its issue. As a result, the conditions for issuing the permit remain unchanged and are an exclusively federal jurisdiction, as confirmed by the Council of State in several notices. In order to try to break the deadlock and avoid any negative impact on the country's driving candidates, I have on several occasions tried to find solutions that could both suit the three regions, while respecting the distribution of competences, as envisaged by the Sixth State Reform. At a meeting in October, I proposed different solutions to the regions, in order to reconcile the different points of view, whether it is the waiting period between two successive provisional driving licences or the widening of the possibilities for a certificate of fitness for driving. I hope that the three regions will be able to give favourable opinions on these projects. Otherwise, it will be difficult for the federal state to reach solutions in a case where the Regions seem to be taking different directions - even though this is a federal jurisdiction. In short, I am open to consultation to arrive at a common solution for the three regions, but it will be impossible to manage three systems of interim licensing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u71	Minister, your answer is certainly very technical. Of course, we are counting on your efforts to find a solution that will allow for the best possible uniformity in the issuance of driving licences. It's essential. We will not fail to follow your initiatives so that the citizen can find himself there. Indeed, such a permit is an important act, for example when it comes to going to work and, more generally, to move around the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u72	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u73	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor, since we are going to resume the agenda on two items on the agenda. However, I would like to make it clear from the outset that I have tabled two amendments concerning the postal services bill. The first is to amend the bill to allow for democratic debate in the event of changes in the organization of universal service, in order to avoid double standards in this bill. The second is to avoid what is called Cherry Picking by organising the distribution of mail in areas, both in urban and rural areas, with identical distribution for everyone, with a single tariff, so that there is no skimming of the service by other operators in our country. The risk is obvious, due to a decrease in bpost receipts. We do not understand that this automatically leads to a distinction between urban and rural areas. Rurality and urbanity are complementary, but urbanity and rurality do not laugh with penalty. I have therefore tabled two amendments. I ask that you send them to the Council of State, at the request of my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u74	Mr de Lamotte, you have anticipated a little, but it is no big deal because an agreement had been reached in the Conference of Presidents. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 December 2017, I propose that the draft law on postal services, Nos 2694/1 to 8, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 December 2017, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the Postal Services Bill, Nos. 2694/1 to 8. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u75	Mr President, in the same vein, our group, together with our excellent Dutch-speaking socialist colleagues, tabled amendments dealing, first of all, with geographical conditions which could prevent the distribution of mail in accordance with universal service. There is absolutely no reason on our territory to justify that it is not. We are not in sub-Saharan conditions or the snows of Kilimanjaro, far from there! It seems to me that this is a condition that could be avoided. I have already proposed it to the Deputy Prime Minister on numerous occasions, and I have no doubt that, thanks to this, he can still reflect on it and confirm, as he has agreed in committee, that these geographical conditions do not bind Belgium. The second amendment concerns more specifically the collegial responsibility we have towards the citizen and the government, in particular. It is an ambiguity and therefore a doubt which remains in this text with regard to who will be in charge of taking the decision whether or not a condition is exceptional. In this regard, we want to have full confidence in the government and, therefore, to attribute this decision specifically to the representatives of citizens in government and not to the company itself. I believe that the government will be given additional time to fully assume its responsibility. That is, in any case, what the Socialist Group and the Sp.a. want from him. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u76	Mr President, our group has supported the amendments tabled by my fellow Members from the PS. We share the concern that rural areas will not be treated in the same way as the city, particularly with regard to tarification, as mentioned here, but also with regard to the frequency, operation and quality of service. We therefore believe that we should retable these additional amendments so that the Council of State can consider them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u77	Mr President, as several colleagues have pointed out, this bill introduces a gap in universal service and risks creating a difference in the quality of public service between our citizens living in urban areas and those living in rural areas. This is completely unacceptable. It seems unthinkable to us that we can find ourselves with a distribution of mail that is of different quality among the citizens of this country, depending on where they live. That is why we are also tabling an amendment to remove this geographical area requirement. For us, there are no second-rate citizens and certainly not those who live in rural areas. We do not accept this way of leading the debate. We are tabling this amendment, which we are also asking, on behalf of my group, to send to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I take note of the fact that there are amendments and that the opinion of the Council of State is requested. This request must come from at least thirty members and must be supported by at least fifty members. (Rule 98(3)) I think that is the case, so we must not vote. The amendments will be sent to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u79	Mr President, amendments can of course be subject to the opinion of the Council of State. I will not oppose that. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the subject has been discussed very widely in committee. The questions that are now being asked here were also put to the committee. I replied very clearly on that occasion that the sixth management contract clearly states that the distribution will take place five times throughout the country, that the number of post offices will remain exactly the same for each municipality, and that bpost is not today a asking party to change that. It also states that if bpost wishes to change this, that amendment should be included in the next management contract. The next management contract will also be explained in committee. In my view, the subject has been discussed very widely in committee. A second reading was also requested by Mr de Lamotte. We all did. If the opposition wishes to table its amendments, that is not the case for me. However, where appropriate, I would like to ask that the opinion of the Council of State can be delivered in a matter of urgency. After all, if we fail to deal with the draft in 2017, a problem will arise in 2018 compared to the postal law which should in principle enter into force on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u80	Mr President, I invite the Minister to take note of the amendments. They've been dropped off. These are points of principle that are very important and even fundamental. There is no reason to seek the opinion in an emergency. We simply ask for the opinion under the usual conditions. Sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u81	Then it is up to me to judge that. Of course, I'm considering...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u82	Mr President, I simply want to make it clear, as my colleague has said, that we are talking about points of principle. It is true that there have been debates in committee, but there are amendments that have never been accepted. Beyond that, a number of things have been added with justifications that seem compelling to me. I would therefore like the opinion of the Council of State to be sought in normal and without urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u83	Mr. Secretary, you're sticking to the urgency, just to be clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u84	Mr President, I absolutely stick to the question of urgency. The draft has been discussed to a very large extent in committee. There are several meetings dedicated to it. A second reading was requested in committee. All right, but that is exactly where we used the same argument as at first reading. If the intention is to re-examine the debate in committee again, I cannot leave it to myself, but I cannot get rid of the impression that this is just to slow things down. If it is to delay the design and if no new arguments are used, then I would absolutely ask the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u85	All right, so we will ask for the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments tabled, but at the same time we will ask for urgency. Well, that point's settled then.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u86	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u87	I have applied the rules, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u88	Mr President, I wish to say that I deplore the decision you are making. The amendments we have tabled call into question a number of fundamental principles which I could even call "constitutional". This deserves the advice of the Council of State. A number of considerations have been swept aside by the minister in committee, which is unacceptable. That is why we want to go into this bill in greater detail. As far as we are concerned, we therefore maintain the request for opinions in the usual forms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u89	Mr President, I am not a member of the committee responsible, but I received the report from the second reading yesterday by post. I would ask every member of the opposition who is now tabling amendments which are fundamental to review the second reading report. That is the most minimal second reading I have read in my parliamentary career. That is why, from a majority point of view, we absolutely support the government's request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u90	I do not think we need to go back to that, Mr Van Mechelen. Mr. Geerts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u91	Mr President, perhaps Mr Van Mechelen can answer that, but the legislation has been tabled without urgency. We have procedures in Parliament. I simply note that the legislation was submitted without urgency. Mr Minister, it is true that the parliamentary work was carried out here, but the basic parliamentary work was also carried out in committee. There were different visions there. That may be the case in this House, but I am asking the following question. If urgency was not asked at the beginning of the debate, why should it be asked now? Since fundamental questions are raised in the amendments to the Council of State, I think it would be better for the work to be done on the ground there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u92	Mr President, we are all customary in the parliamentary procedure. If we request an opinion from the Council of State as a matter of urgency or subject to urgency, we will have an opinion which will tell us that we are competent to take the act. Here, no one doubts the competence of the House to legislate on the text before us. The proposal made in the context of the tabling of amendments is to refer the matter back to the Council of State under the usual and normal standard procedure. That's not another request. This is the one you considered to be supported by a sufficient number of members. There is therefore no need to make difficulties with regard to the nature of the sending we make to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u93	We will not prolong the debate on the amendments and the opinion of the Council of State. The decision was made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u94	Mr President, the Deputy Prime Minister says that we must be able to move forward urgently. We had worked in committee in the most respectful way possible. Deputy Prime Minister, you introduced the text on a day when you were due to leave at noon. We accepted it because we have always worked in a cordial and respectful manner. In doing so, two weeks were lost with Toussaint's week. Last week, you were coming back from Mali. We wanted to be able to listen to you and work with you directly. I say that you are very respectful of parliamentarians in committee. In no way did the members of the Infrastructure Commission obstruct the proper study of the document. We are trying to defend our position and to investigate with the Council of State so that it can give us the best way to follow. This is in no way an obstruction measure!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u95	I take note of that. I repeat, the decision has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporters are Mrs Smaers and Mr Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u97	Mr President, since there is a very good written report, we are referring to that written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u98	Thank you for that, Mrs. Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u99	Mr President, very quickly I wanted to note that my colleagues Gilkinet, Calvo and I had tabled in the Committee on Finance and the Budget an amendment on the terms of the tax shelter for SMEs and crowdfunding. In this way, we asked that this measure be extended to reward-based crowdfunding, i.e. the reward for an investment - to be distinguished from shares or micro-shares. For the time being, the tax shelter allows citizens to benefit from tax benefits only if they support crowdfunding projects from which they become shareholders or micro-shareholders. This is called crowdfunding equity. What was the reason for this amendment? Most reward-based crowdfunding projects want to have a positive social or environmental impact. In addition, they are often anchored locally. Thanks to this measure, we want to support a whole section of the economy which, for the time being, is not supported by the tax shelter. We therefore wish to extend this provision. During the debates in committee, a number of interventions were very positive. Subsequently, we withdrew our amendment to the extent that the office of the Minister of Finance had expressed its willingness to move forward on this issue. So I just wanted to take note of the continuation of the discussion. We sincerely hope to succeed. In any case, the text is in the hands of Minister Van Overtveldt. The purpose of the withdrawal of our amendment was, of course, to allow time for further debate. This measure seems essential to support the economy with a positive social and environmental impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u100	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, I confirm our commitment to this issue. We'll be working on it in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u101	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u102	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2764/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2764/4) The draft law has 22 articles. The bill has 22 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u103	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u104	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law establishing the military quota for 2018, No. 2820/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law establishing the army contingent for the year 2018, No. 2820/1. Before we take a decision on this request, I ask the government to justify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u105	Mr.President, the government is calling for urgency on this draft law on the establishment of the military contingent for the year 2018 because it must be set for 1 January 2018. This is a usual procedure that governments repeat every year. The urgency therefore seems to me to be entirely justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u106	As I said, it comes back every year. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u107	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 December 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees) introducing an efficient, efficient and accessible drug policy by applying the kiwi model, No. 2825/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Muriel Gerkens and Mr Evita Willaert, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mrs Catherine Fonck) on the establishment of a Conference on Women's Rights, No. 2832/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u108	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne) on ending slavery and other human rights violations affecting migrants in Libya, No. 2831/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u109	- the legislative proposal (Mr Jef Van den Bergh and Mrs Daphné Dumery) amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 laying down general rules on road traffic police and the use of public roads in order to introduce the scheme of all cyclists at the same time, No. 2833/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u110	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 December 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees) establishing an efficient, effective and accessible drug policy through the application of the kiwi model, No 2825/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert, MM. Jean-Marc Nollet and Wouter De Vriendt and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Catherine Fonck) to organise the ‘Assises des droits des femmes', No. 2832/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u111	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne) to end slavery and other human rights violations against migrants in Libya, No. 2831/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u112	- the proposal for a law (Mr Jef Van den Bergh and Mrs Daphné Dumery) amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 on the general regulation on the police of road traffic and the use of public roads with a view to introducing the complete green system for cyclists, No 2833/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u113	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u114	Mr President, I would like to ask for the urgency of the motion for resolution No 2831 which we have tabled and which is co-signed by several groups. It aims to put an end to slavery and other human rights violations against migrants in Libya. This is a particularly scandalous situation that deserves immediate answers. That is why I am asking for the urgency of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on this request by sitting and rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u116	Mr President, I too have a request for urgency. In the recitals, you will find the Chamber's document No. 2826 not back. You are all aware of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber and you are aware that, under Rule 103 of the motion for a resolution, the request for a conflict of interest should not be considered, but sent immediately to the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution. Room document No. 2826 is exactly a motion for a resolution that I have tabled together with colleagues Vuye and Wouters. This proposal for a resolution concerns a conflict of interest with regard to the unconstitutional financing, by the French Community, of the French-speaking primary education in the Flemish municipality of Voeren. I would ask you to send this motion for a resolution to the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution with urgency. I will briefly motivate why urgent treatment is needed. For many years, the French Community has been giving subsidies to the French-speaking private school in Voeren, first hidden, but since November 2005 it has been shown in black and white in the budget of the French Community. This is again the case in the draft budget for 2018. That budget states that the non-profit-making Centre Culturel et Sportif des Fourons will receive an amount of EUR 715 000 as a subsidy to institutions with the aim of teaching in the French language. As you know, and as confirmed in judgments of the then Arbitration Court, this goes against Article 127 (2) of the Constitution and the principle of territoriality contained therein in educational matters. Since the federal legislator, in a democratic rule of law, should be the main guardian of the Constitution and constitutional provisions, it is advisable that the Federal Parliament invokes a conflict of interest against that draft decree of the French Community laying down the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2018. A conflict of interest should be filed before that budget is approved by the plenary. So we only have a few weeks left, colleagues. I therefore count on your support for the urgency of the motion for a resolution. I am counting on the support of all those who respect the federal loyalty and all those who believe that not only the Spanish but also the Belgian Constitution should be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u117	We are voting on the urgency of sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, I should like to inform you that I have just received a letter from our colleague Ann Vanheste from the sp.a Group. She lets us know that from Monday she will leave the Chamber to, I presume, throw herself into local politics in De Panne. I wish to thank her and wish her success for the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u119	This interview was held at the public meeting of the National Defence Commission of 29 November 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on November 29, 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 237/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Karine Lalieux and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Jacques Chabot, Mr Daniel Senesael and Mr Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 237/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr. Stéphane Crusnière, Jacques Chabot, Daniel Senesael and Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Peter Buysrogge. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u120	Mr President, I am committed to working with Mr Damien Thiéry, who sits in Paris on the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u121	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u122	Yes 79 Yes No. 63 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u123	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2764/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2764/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-07-54-plenair-ip201x.u124	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 11 December 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of December 11, 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 13 December 2017 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Wednesday, December 13, 2017 at 10.00 hours.
