ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u1	Minister, on 2 August 2016, the European Commission asked Member States to withdraw authorisations for glyphosate products containing tallowamines. The Public Health FPS waited until this decision to withdraw these products from the market, but the disposal of third-party stocks remained allowed until February 22, 2017. These products may be used until February 22, 2018. In parallel with this decision, the SPF has made no specific provision to protect the amateur user, even though he or she is more exposed by his or her training. What are you going to do to inform and protect amateur users? If there is no more sales in the stores, how will the information circulate, knowing that some consumers have stocks at home? How did the withdrawal of the sale take place from February 22, 2017? Where do we stand in concrete terms with regard to the presence of glyphosate associated with tallowamines in gardens or other distributors and all these places defined as "third parties"? How is control organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u2	First of all, I would like to point out that I remain particularly vigilant about the risk that plant protection products may present and attentive to the evolution of scientific knowledge and expertise related to them. For the period of the use of existing stocks on the market, I have followed the opinion of the Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural Use. The European Regulation prohibiting co-formulant tallowamine in glyphosate-based plant protection products entered into force on 22 August 2016, 20 days after its publication. From that date, Belgium has chosen to immediately prohibit holders of Belgian authorisations from placing on the market products containing glyphosate and this co-formulant, although it would have been possible, in accordance with the provisions of Article 46 of the Pesticides Regulation, to allow holders to continue placing on the market until 22 February 2017. Any marketing of the products in stock with the authorisation holders was therefore terminated immediately. A number of authorisation holders found this measure to be excessively severe and brought actions. However, the complainants' arguments were rejected. It is important to note that, since 22 August 2016, the stocks of distributors can no longer be fed, thanks to the anticipation mentioned above, which I have decided. For the placing on the market and use of stocks present in third parties or already in users, the Committee has complied with the provisions relating to the grace period, as laid down in Article 46 of the same Regulation. The Committee considered this period to be proportionate, considering: firstly, the results of toxicological studies carried out on plant protection products containing glyphosate and the co-formulant in question; secondly, the assessment of the exposure of operators, including non-professional users who would not use gloves as a measure to reduce exposure, since this assessment did not reveal an exceedance of the reference toxicology value for exposure; and also taking into account the content of the statement of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) which led the Commission to prohibit the use of this co-formulant. Note that in this statement of EFSA is mainly identified a lack of information about this co-formulant and not the identified hazards or risks. Notwithstanding this statement, we chose to withdraw the marketing authorization for glyphosate associated with this co-formulant. The withdrawal, in this case, was motivated by the elements of uncertainty identified, the precautionary principle mentioned above, and the various information contained in the EFSA statement. As you know, I have supported and defended at European level the decision to withdraw this co-former. Taking all these elements into account, the Accreditation Committee considered that it was proportionate to allow stocks to be disposed of by normal but prudent use of plant protection products that met all the authorisation requirements. With respect to controls, the inspection services of the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency (FCSA) and the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment regularly carry out controls of stores and advice to potential customers or buyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u3	I appreciate the fact that this combination of tallowamine and glyphosate was removed from the market. The deadline was more than reasonable to allow stocks to be disposed of. It is obviously always boring to ban a product harmful to human health and possibly to the environment and then to think that this product will continue to be sold for a year. But it is also, and this is the reason for the introduction of my question, because access to information becomes more difficult in this case. I draw attention to this fact. You say that there are controls on whether or not products are present and on the information given to the population. We often inform about what we sell, but we don't disseminate information about what we don't sell. In this case, the product is no longer sold. With regard to this type of product withdrawn from the market, it seems interesting to me to recall that if such composition has become prohibited, citizens may still have products containing it at home. Recommend not to use them or take special precautions is advice that should be encouraged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u4	Mr Minister, on 28 February last the European Commission made a new proposal to the Member States on the criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors in order to be able to ban substances and products containing them, given their toxicity to human health. This is another failure of the European Commission which has failed to convince a qualified majority of the Member States, given the elements considered too lax in its proposals. Minister, what was the specific content of these proposals? What was Belgium's position and on the basis of what arguments? What is the timing and new tasks assigned to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u5	I would like to recall that this matter is being co-led by the Minister of Health, Ms. De Block, Minister Marghem and myself. We are all very attentive to the risks that endocrine disruptors may pose and we are particularly vigilant with regard to the development of this European debate. As regards the content of the latter proposals, the only item on the agenda was the proposal for criteria to identify substances with disruptive endocrine properties. The proposed amendment to negligible exposure, also known as derogation, was not on the agenda. The European Commission's proposal corresponds to the text resulting from the discussions at the previous meeting and for which, as you know, there would have been no qualified majority. This proposal contains a first part setting out the criteria for identifying substances with endocrine disrupting properties that are harmful to humans. The second part concerns living organisms other than humans not targeted by these substances. Both are accompanied by a paragraph detailing the elements to be used as the basis for such identification, namely the relevant scientific literature and an objective evaluation of the latter. Belgium abstained because it believes that the European Commission's proposal is not coherent. Indeed, the proposal contained a paragraph which clearly did not fall within its scope but rather within the scope of the section on negligible exposure, also known as derogation. However, for this part, Belgium has always refused to grant a mandate to the European Commission. This refusal is justified by the fact that this part cannot be considered a non-essential act within the meaning of the Pesticides Regulations. As far as we are concerned, as long as the European Commission does not present clear and unambiguous criteria, Belgium will not be able to support the draft text. For my part, the scheme must be simple. Clear, precise, validated criteria must be defined. If a product meets these criteria, it must therefore be considered an endocrine disruptor and the consequences must of course follow. At the end of the last meeting, it was again clear that there would not have been a qualified majority either. The European Commission has therefore stated that it will consider a new proposal meeting Member States' comments and will submit it at the next meeting of the Committee. Belgium is therefore exerting real pressure. It is offensive and very cautious in this matter. We have seen progress. But on these key elements, we are not there. Of course, we need clear criteria to define endocrine disruptors and the attitude to be adopted accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u6	Mr Minister, thank you for this answer and for the position taken by Belgium on this matter. Has a date been set for a future committee meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u7	I don't know her. I can check, but I don't know her memory. I wouldn't want to make it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u8	All right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u9	In order to alternate, I will ask my question about psychomotricians after the following speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u10	Madam President, Minister, there is a lot to say about students on a living wage, but my question concerns a number of specific issues. Figures show that the OMCWs are increasingly confronted with students asking for financial assistance. Not only did the number of students increase by 13.5 % between 2015 and 2016, their number has more than doubled in the last ten years. What is very striking is that the figures show a considerable difference between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. The figures are in excess of 3 900, 10 000 and 6 500 respectively and until June 2016. Students form a specific target group within the living wage legislation. The starting point of the Living Wage Act is that young people should be encouraged to obtain a diploma. That is a very good starting point. The reason for this is obvious. Society is increasingly evolving towards a knowledge-based society, where obtaining a certificate or diploma is an indispensable condition for becoming a full part of society. The social research carried out by the social worker must clearly show that the aid question is rightly submitted to the OMCW. I would like to stress that it is not a disaster at all for young people to join the OMCW. It is always very negative about this increase, but young people often benefit from the broad support they can get through the OMCW, especially when looking at the young people who are now passing through. In the past, they were simply granted an early retirement allowance, and now they are moving on to an OCMW, where they are receiving much broader support. In itself, I do not think that is a negative shift. On the contrary, I see daily in the OCMW that a lot of young people can take a successful course, provided they get the right support. I believe that this nuance should be given in relation to the figures. Since the living wage is residual, it is assumed that the student initially addresses other sources, such as the maintenance obligation, to provide his livelihood. In my youth I also knew young people who asked the OCMW for a living wage, while I knew very well that their parents were still supporting them, but that was in consultation with the parents and to relieve them a little. Such young people are not the majority of these figures, but they are something we have to pay attention to. It should be assumed that the student is financially maintained by his parents until the age of completion of his studies and self-employment. As long as there is a right to family allowances, parents are subject to maintenance under the RMl Act. In certain cases, it is, of course, appropriate to provide financial assistance. I do notice a number of bottlenecks there. For example, we are thinking of local autonomy and differentiation for reasons of fairness. As regards the maintenance obligation, some OCMWs are very strict on parents, while others simply pay the living wage and do not carry out research. This is the same as with the conditions for fulfilling a holiday job and achieving or failing to achieve good school results. Don't get me wrong, I think it's very good that the client's bespoke work is going on. Especially as far as students are concerned, it is not possible to draw a general line. There is, of course, a check on compliance with the legal conditions, but this is done on the spot at the OCMW's, where the inspection service of the POD Ml checks some files on a sample basis to see if everything is done properly. However, these figures are not kept centrally. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Again, I don't think it's wrong for young people to join the OMCW. I see every day how some young people really benefit from this and how they find their way out of a generational poverty, for which I have great respect, but the difference between the three regions is, at least, considerable. Do you have an explanation for this? That will certainly not be an explanation that can be given as quickly as possible. There will be a number of factors, but I would ask you to clarify this a little. The control of the files by the POD Ml is done by checking a number of files annually. Is it not desirable to keep a record of all the figures that can lead to a better customised service? Do you have any plans in that direction? Then about the autonomy of each OCMW, which is good in itself, but when it comes to the maintenance obligation and the investigation, it should be possible to indicate a clear line in it that will ensure that people can look at it correctly and honestly before decisions are taken. Do you have any plans in this direction? How do you intend to reactivate the OCMWs in order to follow a particular procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u11	Minister, my attention was particularly drawn to one of the most recent reports of the Institute of Sustainable Development, which highlighted the increase in the number of Francophone students receiving integration income. This number almost quadrupled between 2002 and 2016, with a predominant share of 18-24 year olds, a greater presence of women or young women. The report also indicates a near-stabilization of young integration income recipients who have been recognized as students since 2008, after a very strong increase between 2002 and 2008. According to this study – Mrs Van Peel referred to it and this is also apparent in practice – the granting of this integration income varies greatly from one CPAS to another. It all depends on the discretionary decision of the Social Action Council. The differences are sometimes enormous, since the proportion of young people receiving "student" integration income ranges from 0% to 80% depending on the orientation of the CPAS. This study also highlights objectivable elements that may explain these differences. For example, some are orientated towards training courses that are not considered to be full-service studies. In doing so, they are not entitled to this income from integration. The study suggests whether, in view of the young person's abilities and project of integration, this choice was more appropriate or whether it was the CPAS who caused them to find themselves in this situation. Still, according to the report, in some areas where many young people who have completed their studies have an income of integration because they have not found a job, there are fewer places for students who would like to have this help. Finally, in more disadvantaged populations, the attitudes or behaviours of applicants make them more or less in line with what is expected or necessary to start studies. But, according to the Institute of Sustainable Development, not all of these elements explain these large variations between CPAS. Minister, what is your position with respect to this difference between CPAS in terms of receiving and responding to requests from students or young people who wish to undertake studies with income from integration? Indeed, the principle of equity between citizens and young citizens does not seem to be respected. On the other hand, CPAS obviously need time and staff. They sometimes have to use external structures to accompany these young people and sometimes their entourage, who often do not receive assistance. Are there any specific provisions in terms of organisation and funding? Is a detailed study being considered to determine the mechanisms that explain these differences in treatment? Are you planning to harmonise the aid granted in all cases? Several fields of study will be extended, such as that of nurses. How do you plan to assess the impact on CPAS? Should this status not be extended to other categories of study than full-year studies, since many other training courses lead to jobs but do not fall within the established criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u12	Mrs Van Peel, first I come to the differences between the regions regarding the number of students applying for a living wage. In general, I see the same trend as in the overall figures for living wages. As with those global figures, the difference is largely explained by the differences in the socio-economic situation between the three regions. For a more in-depth analysis of the specific target group of students, I refer to the September 2016 Focus Note, which you will find on the website of the PPS Social Integration and which has as its theme "Students and the living wage'. With regard to the available data, my inspection department draws up an annual report and publishes it on the website of the Social Integration PPS. This annual report shall contain, in addition to figures, the main findings by subject matter checked. At present, only for the purposes of checking the files "Live Wage', information on 31 different variables is kept in a systematic manner. The OMCW shall be able to consult all these annual reports and draw the necessary lessons from them, as well as from the audits carried out with them by the Social Integration PPS. In addition, my services, in cooperation with Statbel and Smals, are finalizing work on a barometer that will allow OCMWFs to draw statistics for their municipalities themselves and compare them with other municipalities and OCMWFs that, for example, are in a similar socio-economic situation. I would like to repeat here that I am attached to the autonomy of the OCMWFs. I believe, as I have said before in this committee, that the local autonomy of an OCMW is very important. It is not my intention to limit this. However, I am thinking effectively of a number of measures to address a number of bottlenecks. As regards the control of the correct application of the legislation and regulation and, in particular, the subsidies granted by the federal State to OCMWFs, I can state that this is one of the tasks of the inspection service of the PPS Social Integration. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 45 of the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration, as Minister responsible for Social Integration, I may decide to refuse or reduce a State allowance if the OMCW fails to fulfil its obligations in the context of recovery from creditors. It's the parents' duty to feed. As regards the question of whether the OMCWs are sufficiently armed, as a federal minister, I would remind you of the higher reimbursement rate for the GPMI student. It should also be borne in mind that I have recently obtained the increase in the intervention in the file costs at the level of the OCMWFs. This gives them additional resources to implement their policies. As regards the question of extending the studies that could be carried out in the context of a GPMI student, I do not wish to extend this provision to other types of studies at present. I do not want to distort the main objective of the GPMI student and the need to achieve better results in terms of employment. The longer duration of some studies could have an impact on the budgets of the CPAS and therefore of the federal budget, given the rate of reimbursement applied. At this stage, it is premature to have figures reflecting this possible budget increase. In the coming months, I want to take the case to the body and ensure better supervision of individualized projects of social integration (PIIS) students. To this end, I would like to work on three axes. First, I want to strengthen the control of the proper exercise of the parent's food duty (onderhoudsverplichting). Indeed, recovery rates are too low. Intra-family solidarity must first play, obviously when possible, when income permits, before the right to social integration comes into play. Secondly, the scheme should encourage a more regular start to work. Studying is an important element of social, vocational and personal development, but it is not the only avenue to explore for each young person. As Minister for SMEs and the self-employed, I am particularly sensitive to the issue of employment and employment needs. CPAS could explore, together with the young people concerned, avenues or assumptions leading directly or rapidly to employment, such as internships, future youth employment, articles 60, 61, short training or other schemes. Thirdly, the studies that have been carried out should provide a real perspective on how to get to work. Too often, a young person who has taken a student SIIP remains at the end of his or her jobless training. These three elements make up the reform which I am preparing and which I will submit to the consultation of the CPAS federations and to our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u13	In my view, Minister, it is a good thing that you are going to look more closely at whether this maintenance obligation is being examined, apart from the fact that there are fair reasons for not doing so. I think that the order here must indeed be respected before a decision can be taken within an OCMW. It's a discussion that we keep coming back to. I welcome the fact that you will create databases in which OCMW will be able to make comparisons. Then the will to do so remains with the OCMWFs themselves. I think the vast majority of them have the will. But for me it's always about that tension between an insured autonomy for the OCMWFs and sufficient accountability. This also means creating a framework within which that autonomy may apply. I think that you are pursuing a slightly different field of tension from what we would like to see. The same applies to your explanation of the difference in figures between the regions. That is in line with the global figures. Moreover, it is also true that the socio-economic situation also plays a role in certain areas. We're not gonna deny the sun's light. For me, this is not enough as an explanation. You can't convince me it's just that. There is indeed a serious difference in mentality in certain regions and OCMW on certain sides of the language border, where I believe that one of your fellow parties has been able to determine the direction for a little too long. In my opinion, some of the differences between the regions are due to a benefit policy versus an activation policy, which has been worn much stronger and longer in Flanders, and which I know your party is also in favour of. I can say that all the other parties in Wallonia are pursuing this to a much lesser extent. I believe that today's figures are an illustration of this. To be continued, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u14	I am not going to say the same thing as Mrs Van Peel even if I find that some CPAS, including in Wallonia, can do better and have policies that are more in the logic of accompaniment than in the logic of giving help and then wait for something to happen. I take from your answer a desire to frame the SIIP students and to put this barometer into practice; I assume that it is within the framework of what you had said for SIIP in general, and that it will be a question of comparing the practices of the SIPCs that are in communes with comparable socio-economic data, so as to be able to identify good practices. As far as students are concerned, if I understand your answer correctly, you do not intend to extend this status and intervention for students to forms other than full-time studies. However, a little further in your answer, you say that it would be interesting for these studies to lead to job search. I understand that you also say that in relation to this job search, internships, training, etc. are also interesting devices to support. I really wonder about wanting to make such clear barriers. Indeed, it is clear that for a whole series of training courses and internships, including alternance training, these courses and these ways of doing things are interesting for many young people. This sometimes allows them to find a job, and to do another type of study after eventually. It is therefore difficult to say that these students pursuing studies in different forms are helped differently from those who have the chance or the ability to do classical studies. Furthermore, in Liège, law students were refused the intervention of CPAS because it was considered that law studies did not lead to employment and therefore either they had to choose another orientation or they had to do without CPAS. This obsessive desire to get to a supposed job because one is a beneficiary of the CPAS creates discrimination of another kind between these students and those who are lucky enough to have a family with higher incomes. But I note that you want to frame and improve the situation, and that the door is not closed to modifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u15	Minister, the new GPMI has been in operation since 1 November. You know you have a partner in me for that. The target group of the GPMI was greatly expanded and it broadens the possibilities of the OCMW to work more tailor-made. One can actively guide the OCMW beneficiaries on a large scale towards independence, self-reliance and social integration. Integration into the labour market is an important objective. Rights and obligations will be aligned. But it can be so much more than integration into the labour market. I have already asked several questions about the GPMI, including following the letter sent by the POD MI on 12 October 2016. There were a number of points which I do not think are entirely in line with the answers I received from you in the various committees. I still fear that the system will be eroded and its purpose will be missed, which certainly cannot be the intention. I know that you have already given some answers, but there are still some uncertainties, which I also belong to my fellow Members. The GPMI has been in operation for four months. You cannot give an evaluation at this stage, because it is too early. I would like to ask you a few more questions, Mr Minister, on the basis of a question from my colleagues in the Chair. The decision to apply a penalty immediately........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The letter does not prohibit this, but it must always insist on compliance with the principle of proportionality and the need to clearly motivate the decision. That in itself makes it much more cumbersome than it was before. Is this being streamlined to clarify what this is about? Do you have any plans on the subject, or is there another letter in the pipeline? Can you also explain very clearly and specifically the various sanctioning options? There are still a lot of questions about this too. Is it now simplified and can it be faster, or can it be with a break? I understand that you are allowing both, but perhaps you should clarify this again. A small OCMW sometimes experiences difficulties in the control of a physician. Family doctors in small municipalities do not always want to take on that role and the occupational physician himself within an OCMW is not a questioning party. Thus, when individuals invoke medical reasons for an exemption, but the OCMW suspects improper writing behavior, and this really happens much more often than one would think and wish, then an OCMW is relatively powerless. How do you see that? What solutions can you offer from the federal level? This is independent of the fact that it is up to your colleague De Block to address this improper writing behaviour, because that is not your responsibility. How can you support OCMWFs to perform a second test? The social situation of each beneficiary and his family should be taken into account, in particular in terms of mobility. That was also reflected in the letter, but that surprised me anyway, especially because it was included in the section'successful reasons'. I do not think that this can be described as a reason for fairness, but rather as a point of action. In addition, there are enough alternatives to continue to work in strengthening a GPMI, such as education, social activation and so on. In addition, I believe that solutions can also be sought in the area of mobility. A GPMI can also be drawn up for each of these routes. The absence of a GPMI for reasons of fairness should therefore remain very exceptional as far as I am concerned. Are the reasons for fairness defined somewhere and why is mobility specifically mentioned in the letter? Isn't that a pre-emption to OCMW's to invoke that fairness very quickly? On the field there seems to be a lack of clarity as to whether or not a GPMI should be used during a journey of temporary work experience, which is covered by Article 60 and, of course, a Community competence. However, the GPMI contains a number of concrete actions and objectives that can be further built on during that period. So I think it would be useful to do so, so that there is a follow-up instrument and no administrative burden is created for the social assistants. Can you clarify this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u16	The legal sanctioning mechanism for non-compliance with the GPMI was included in Article 30 (2) of the May 2002 Law on the Right to Social Integration. In any case, it is necessary to give a final warning before we can suspend the living wage. In the context of the guidance provided by the GPMI, the social worker can also opt for a number of other mechanisms in the event of problems. The ultimate goal of the GPMI is the socio-professional, professional and social integration of the person concerned. If the social worker finds that there are problems with the implementation of the GPMI, he or she will have a meeting with the person concerned as soon as possible, assessing exactly what is going wrong with the implementation. After this conversation there are several possibilities. This may show that the GPMI is no longer adapted to the personal situation of the person concerned. In this case, the GPMI may be modified. It is also possible that the person concerned will see where it goes wrong during the conversation and that he or she will get back together. This can also be obtained by a reconfirmation of the agreements in the GPMI, an official warning or a reminder. It is one of the core tasks of the social worker to provide the best possible guidance. As part of this guidance, he must make the best decision and choose the best measures. The suspension of the payment of the living wage has serious consequences for the person entitled to the living wage. It is therefore normal that there should be a degree of proportionality between that sanction and the infringement of the GPMI and that that decision should be justified. In the case of frequent, rather minor violations, it is also important that the OMCW builds up a file, so that it can be shown that the suspension of the payment of the living wage is proportionate to the violations of the agreements in the GPMI. In case of reasonable doubt and in order to adequately support the application for aid and social research, the OMCW is free to apply for a medical counter-expertise in accordance with Article 6 (4) of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2002 laying down the general rules on the right to social integration. This counter-expertise must of course be carried out by a physician. It is, after all, a doctor who determines whether the illness of the person concerned fits within the legal framework. The OMCW has no discretion in this regard. As regards the possibility of obtaining medical advice, I would like to make it clear that the reform of the GPMI and the increase in the file costs granted to the OCMWFs, without distinction according to their size, provide them with additional resources which they may use for medical examination where appropriate. This issue is also a matter for their autonomy. The OMCW must take into account all elements of the personal situation of the person concerned in the context of social research. The possibility of moving is one of the elements to be evaluated. If the OMCW decides not to close GPMI for reasons of fairness, it will do so on the basis of the whole of the circumstances specific to the situation of the person concerned. Real, concrete and important mobility problems can be one element in this. The OMCW must motivate the non-closure of the GPMI. Such justification must remain in the file. The inspection of the FPS Social Integration will ensure that the absence of a GPMI was sufficiently motivated by a decision. During a temporary work experience, the person concerned works and socio-professional integration is in full swing. One of the key steps in this integration is that the person concerned gradually regains mastery of his own professional path. If the OMCW still considers it desirable to close a GPMI during this temporary work experience, it may do so after consultation and with the agreement of the person concerned. However, it is important for the OMCW to ensure that the agreements included in the GPMI do not conflict in any way with the agreements made for the purpose of temporary work experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u17	Minister, the GPMI is of course not a cold contract. We agree on that, too. I am certainly not asking for a suspension to be applied immediately in the event of the slightest violation of one of the conditions. That's not how files are handled on an OCMW. You are right to say that there may be reasons, and it is up to the social assistant, on the basis of discussions and a report, to let the special committee know what these reasons are. One should not refer coldly to a contract and immediately suspend someone. I absolutely agree with that. On the basis of a GPMI, in a normal course between an OCMW and a client, one should not just suspend someone until the person has received a final warning. I agree with that, too. You're talking about the normal debt-to-equity contracts. However, in every OMCW there are also cases where it is really about manifest lies or abuses, social fraud, income that has not been reported and is withheld. Those were the files which, provided the necessary motivation, of course, were stopped overnight. That's not only in my OCMW, but in a lot of OCMWs. The fear remains that this will no longer be possible with the expansion of the GPMI. In a normal course of work, I fully agree with you that a suspension should not be allowed without a formal notice and a thorough analysis of the dossier. In this way, these people are immediately hit very hard. I absolutely agree, don't get me wrong. It is about those other files, which were previously stopped from one day on the basis of, for example, manifest lies about a place of residence, social fraud or jobs that were not reported to the social assistant. That wasn't discussed in the past. On the basis of the circular, an OCMW now threatens to be obliged to send letters of formal notice and work with suspensions instead of being able to terminate the contract. That's my question. I am not talking about normal routes, but about such cases. As far as the rest of your answers are concerned, I'm more or less with them. As far as medical counter-expertise is concerned, I do not think that this is always so obvious for every OCMW. You are right, however, that the budget you have released can be used in part for this purpose. I continue to have difficulty with the fact that mobility has slipped into that letter for reasons of fairness. We all know that there are certainly certain areas in Wallonia where these mobility problems are raised to show why people can't find jobs. With some investments in mobility and by looking a little further than the region itself, one can of course find jobs. I am very sorry that this is included in the letter, with which I do not want to say that mobility can never be one of the reasons for fairness. Now it is actually presented on a plateau as a justification for seeking fairness, and I fear that there will be abuse of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u18	Minister, you know the legislation, of course. An OMCW may grant a fuel oil premium where the applicant fulfils one of the following conditions: entitlement to an increased allowance, low income or debt burden. For 2015, more than 96 000 persons or families were entitled to this premium. Again, of course, there are differences between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels-Capital. Especially in Wallonia, this fuel oil premium is widely used. Today, people receive the premium if they meet one of the three conditions. There's actually no means test involved. In particular, with regard to the right to an increased allowance, an increased allowance can be granted and, so to speak, three houses can be owned. That's perfect. That is not being investigated by the OMCW and it is not being asked to investigate. The abolition of the premium is, of course, not desirable, because there are certainly people today for whom this premium is still useful and who really need the intervention in energy costs. We would like to get rid of the fuel oil in the long term to heat, but just the people who cannot make such an investment, we need to be able to support it while it still exists. I don't have a problem with that. I have the following questions, Minister. Shouldn't there be a means test at the request? In the end, this happens in the case of almost all applications submitted to the OMCW. I think that this test should also be decisive in order to provide support, since a lot of money is going to go there now. Then I would like to know that it really ends up with the people who really need it. Fuel oil is in itself an excess energy. I understand, of course, that it is difficult for those people who do not already have sufficient financial resources to switch to another source of energy. Don't you see ways to play a little bit on that? The premium does not cover the total cost, but a better redistribution of existing resources can ensure that those most in need can make the most of it. How do you intend to proceed with this information in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u19	Mrs van Peel, a resource test is indeed carried out when the heating allowance is granted: for category 1, beneficiaries of the increased insurance allowance, and for category 2, low income, family income is taken into account. For category 3, persons with a collective debt regime or debt mediation, the family needs are analysed. You are right, of course, that there are other ways of warming up today. Many people have switched to electricity or gas as the main source of heating. There is therefore a social tariff for gas and electricity, which provides for an intervention for these types of heating. However, many people still heat up with fuel oil. For these people, the heating allowance is indeed useful. I also foresee a reform of the social energy funds. At the beginning of this year, I ordered a study that will evaluate in detail the energy funds, the Social Fuel Oil Fund and the Gas and Electricity Fund, in order to obtain a global picture and, if necessary, to make adjustments to ensure that these funds are used optimally for the people who need them. I expect the results of this study in the course of this year 2017. As soon as the conclusions of this study are known, I will immediately communicate them and take all possible actions to improve the functioning of these funds. I already have some ideas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u20	Which you clearly do not want to share, Minister. We'll hear you come in the press or in the committee, which would be a lot cooler.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u21	Minister, we already know that microplastics are present in fish, shellfish and crustaceans. However, the presence of microplastics was now also found in sea salt. This problem is being addressed both in China and in EFSA. On the basis of these data, the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment decided to carry out a screening of the presence of microplastics in sea salt for human consumption on the Belgian market. Apparently there is a very large variation, depending on the type of sea salt. One of the researchers' decisions is that if we stick to the recommended daily amount of salt of 5 grams per day, it is estimated that in most people this is more....................................................................................... This quantity may seem negligible, but the results give rise to some concern, both among researchers and among citizens. The question arises in which foods microplastics can still be found, if this can already be found in something as common as salt? Researchers indicate that it is important to know what amount of microplastics we take every day to know the impact on our health on this basis. Mr. Secretary, do you know this investigation? What is your position? In what way should we evaluate the concerns of citizens and researchers? Are you willing to do or finance additional research?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u22	First of all, I would like to assure the honourable Member that I pay a great deal of attention to research to improve food safety for our fellow citizens. Together with my services, I am extremely vigilant in this regard. The design of this research on microplastics in sea salt is primarily to map the environmental impact. Unfortunately, the results are too small-scale to draw conclusions about the exposure of the Belgian population to microplastics, as well as about the possible impact on public health. This research shows that microplastics are mainly found in traditionally artisan sea salt. However, this is consumed much less than 1% of the total salt consumption........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Standard sea salt hardly contains microplastics because it is thoroughly washed and purified during production. There are general purity standards for sea salt, but specific standards for microplastics are not yet available. It is a new phenomenon because of the pollution of seawater with microplastics. According to the recent risk assessment by the European Food Safety Authority, it is currently impossible to carry out a full risk assessment and draw a conclusion on the potential risk to food safety or public health. However, the results of this study may lead to further research into microplastics in foodstuffs. In addition to the limited information on the presence of microplastics in fishery products and sea salt, little is known about the contamination of all kinds of foods, the possible route of contamination and the effects of microplastics on health. Through the Contractual Research cell of the FPS Public Health, I fund several scientific research projects every year in support of the policy on food safety and animal and plant health. A project idea on this subject is currently under discussion and is based on the recommendations for further research as formulated in EFSA opinion. The presence of microplastics in the food chain and its impact on human and animal health is also part of a project theme in the European Union's Risk Assessment Agenda. So it is also possible that a European project on this issue will be carried out, which I naturally support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I understand this is being prosecuted. We wanted to express our concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u24	Mr Minister, my question does not, of course, concern federal competence. That's what I'm saying in advance. Recently, residents of Wuustwezel travelled to their ship's college with a study on the health risks associated with the establishment of large poultry stables. Where previously stables of about four thousand chickens did not cause major problems, this is now the case with the large farms of sixty thousand chickens or more probably. There are higher concentrations of fine dust in a radius of one kilometre around poultry stables and there is an increased risk of lung problems (astma and lung cancer) near such stables, according to a study by Utrecht University. I am well aware, once again, that this is a regional issue, since it concerns environmental permits and, possibly, even building permits. However, I was wondering whether you, as Minister for Food Safety and Environmental Impact, are not concerned about this. Would it be useful to discuss this with the regions? Do you personally think that, in conjunction with the regions of the EU, the criteria for environmental permits should be changed, or is such consultation not at all relevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u25	Mrs Jiroflée, Smit et al's research. from 2017 is indeed remarkable and important. The FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment was informed about the study and analysed it. The study was carried out in the Dutch province of North Brabant, an area with intensive poultry holdings, which is not fully comparable to the Belgian situation. Authors also point out that these are preliminary research results, which should be confirmed in broader and independent studies, given the too limited sample and the absence of a healthy control group. My administration will continue to monitor these studies and may, as appropriate, propose to take protective measures or have additional studies carried out in our country. My competence as Federal Minister of Agriculture concerns the areas of animal health and food safety. The permit policy in relation to the possible effects on people and the environment, such as monitoring pollution caused by concentrations of fine dust, falls within the competence of the Regions, but I am, of course, willing to cooperate with my fellow Members on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u26	Minister, I'm glad you're following up on this. I understand that there is no concrete consultation with the regions on this, but perhaps we should follow up on this dossier from Parliament. I think the issue could become more important in the future. For the time being, I'm sure your answer will do. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank Mr Van Peel for having asked me my questions first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u27	Minister, we have approved a tightening of the law, whereby any person entitled to a living wage may reside abroad for a maximum of one month a year. That is a good thing, because it is comparable to someone who works. The inspection of the POD Ml would monitor the implementation of that measure. However, it appears that the POD MI only has information on the applications for reimbursement of the living wage after award. A decision to suspend the living wage shall not state the reason for this. You would take steps, together with your administration, to develop a working tool that allows you to monitor the application of the change in an appropriate way. For example, it would be possible in the future to closely monitor the situations of beneficiaries of living benefits who are abroad for more than a week. What progress has been made on the development of this working tool, Minister? Without statistics and a concrete follow-up one cannot know whether additional directives would be necessary. What timing do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u28	Mrs van Peel, I attach great importance to the follow-up to the measure in question. The Act entered into force in January 2016 and I gave more clarification to the OMCWs on its application through the circular of 12 January 2016. To ensure optimal follow-up, I asked my administration to create a monitoring tool. Its development required an adjustment of the current reimbursement forms. In the meantime, the change has been made and is going into production in the IT system of the PPS Social Integration. The adaptation has yet to be implemented in the platform of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. That will happen in the next few days. In addition, the software houses have already received the necessary technical documentation. They will have until the end of April to develop and make available the working instrument to the OCMWFs. Once this has been done, it will be possible for the OCMWFs to introduce the refusals due to a stay abroad in the PPS Social Integration computer system, so that the necessary statistics, and perhaps controls, can be collected and the change can be monitored in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u29	Mr. Secretary, it's not, but it seems to be a one-two. That's very good news. Then we expect this very quickly; as always with software packages it takes a little longer than one hopes. It looks like whizz kids who can do anything, but it always takes a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u30	Madam President, Minister, the socio-professional exemption already exists, but the government agreement stipulates that we would evaluate it in order to optimise it, because today the instrument does not always have the desired effect. On 27 January 2016, I asked you a question about this. In your then policy paper, you also referred to a study completed by the University of Antwerp which would include recommendations to optimise the instrument. Following the reform of the GPMI, you would also launch a consultation on this reform. Can you be more specific about the approach you are going to adopt for the socio-professional exemption? How will you take into account the unemployment trap, on the one hand, and the fact that a customer with a living wage currently has little benefit if he wants to use the system, on the other hand? What stage is the consultation at? What recommendations of the study will you take? What timing do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u31	Madam President, I asked my administration to draw up study proposals based on the results in order to make the measure of the socio-professional exemption simpler and more attractive. The objective of the measure is to give concrete encouragement to wage-earners to work and to make more work more effective, which is not always the case in the current system. Unemployment traps where net income falls once one goes to work must be avoided. As the various studies show, the current system is too complex, which entails heavy administrative burdens to apply it. Reforming the current system with a view to simplification is therefore absolutely a priority for me. I have also had an examination of the effect of replacing the flat-rate release system with a percentage exemption. A first test with the field of work was carried out in the framework of an informal working group with the OCMWFs. The formal consultation with the OCMW associations will follow as soon as all simulations relating to the alternative calculation methods have been completed. It is still a little too early to comment on the concrete proposals I would like to bring along, inter alia because the budgetary impact of the various options still needs to be examined. It is therefore a very complex and technical dossier with a budgetary impact. It will take some time to study all possible scenarios, all of which have their advantages and disadvantages. Nevertheless, this dossier is absolutely a priority for me and I would like the new regulation to enter into force at the beginning of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u32	Minister, I look forward to discussing this in committee. You're right, the current system isn't working. A client with a living wage who makes use of it often sees his living allowance disappear, resulting in the same amount as before, although he may be partially employed. So that's not motivating. Moreover, there is often no outflow to more work. Perhaps you should think towards a higher concession or a higher exemption that is deafening. We're on the same page there again. We may also need to look with the OCMWFs at whether the expiry of the allowances can be done in a more gradual manner. Either way, the goal is clear. It is intended to enable people to evaluate gradually towards work. I think that for many people on a living wage this would be more feasible than the steps they sometimes have to take now. I am waiting for your proposal that this legislative period should come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u33	I also agree with this solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u34	Mr Minister, I have also mentioned this issue on many occasions. So I will not give my full explanation again. In July of last year, you gave an update. You also stated at that time that asylum seekers and beneficiaries of emergency medical care do not have the same access to and follow-up to the care and that the government agreement provides for a non-limitative list of care, as is the case with asylum seekers. You also hoped to collect information from good and poor healthcare practices identified in the HZIV checks to better define urgent medical care. Minister, what is the current state of affairs? Are there any additional investigative actions coming? How's the meeting coming? In what period do you come up with a definition? I expect you to say it will be a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u35	In fact, the coalition agreement stipulates that the notion of urgent medical care must be clarified, in cooperation with medical experts but without this leading to a list of conditions. You will agree with me that this is not a simple task. In order to obtain such clarification, I would like, among other things, to strengthen the verification of the certificates of urgent medical care carried out by the medical counsellors of the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Benefits (HZIV). I would like to strengthen the verification of the certificates of urgent medical care in two areas. First of all, I would like to extend the control a priori so that, for each dossier, it can be verified whether the required certificate is present and in conformity. In the absence of the required certificate, no payment will be made. Secondly, I would like to make the monitoring of the substance more efficient a posteriori, in the sense that the medical advisers always have the necessary medical reports to carry out the substantive checks. A negative check will also result in recovery of the undue payment. In order to carry out the checks, my administration has held regular consultations with the HZIV to develop the corresponding regulatory framework. They are currently finalizing the draft texts, after which I will contact my colleague in Public Health to discuss the framework. I am convinced that the good and bad care practices identified in the HZIV checks, as well as the case law that will be developed from them, will provide a good basis for discussing, together with other medical experts, the uncertainties regarding the concept of urgent medical assistance and its definition. I will also discuss this with my colleagues from the government, in this case my colleague Maggie De Block. Of course, this will take some time, but it seems to me the best way to arrive at a well-founded definition based on the findings on the ground by the medical experts themselves. As soon as the new legislation enters into force, the necessary instructions will be communicated to OMCWFs and healthcare providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u36	Minister, you are working very hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u37	It is a difficult definition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u38	We have to land now and then, otherwise I will have to ask that question again. It'll be all right. It'll be all right. Thank you for your answer. The matter is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u39	Mr President, Minister, this is another example in which legislation contradicts itself, creating different habits. Making homes accessible and, in particular, promoting the integration of homeless people through housing are among the priorities of the OMCW. Since 7 October 2004, the OMCW has been able to award an installation premium to different groups of homeless people on the basis of two different laws. A cumulation of these two schemes is, however, not possible. However, there is a remarkable difference between these two laws. Cohabiting homeless people who receive an installation premium under Article 57a of the Organic Law receive only one premium if they settle at the same address, while homeless people who, under the law on the right to social integration (RMl), request and start living together are entitled to two premiums. The installation premium is an individual right under the RMl Act which any homeless person who fulfils the conditions can enjoy, regardless of whether or not to live with other homeless persons entitled to an installation premium under the RMl Act. As a result, four adult homeless brothers living together under the RMI Act can in principle receive four premiums, while a single mother with four underage children receives only one premium. That's a crooked growth, isn't it? The distribution and allocation of the installation premium is no longer adapted to the needs and different forms of society within this society. Do you see a tie-up possible between the two different laws to eliminate the current uncertainty as well as the difference in approach between the different OCMW debt holders? Would it not be better to grant only one installation premium per address, but to take into account, for example, live-in children? In other words, is there not a need for a redeployment of the categories on the basis of current forms of society? In that case, do you see it possible to implement a possible split-up of the installation premium in the data flows of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, so that the retention of rights can be evenly distributed between resident adults per address? For example, if two brothers are to live together and only one premium is granted, it would be fair that there should be a right of 50% if they move afterwards, as they are only entitled to that premium once.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u40	Mrs van Peel, the distinction you mentioned is explained by the difference in views between the two laws. An installation premium per family is granted under the Organic Law of 8 July 1976 on OCMWFs. The Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration is based on the individualisation of rights, which grants the premium to each adult of a family. A tie-up between the two laws is one of the ways to eliminate the uncertainties. This has been studied in the context of the reform I envisage in order to achieve convergence between the two legislations. Rather than rearranging the categories in order to deal with this dossier, I would therefore like to look at any reform of the installation premium in the context of the harmonisation of the two laws. The amount of the installation premium shall always correspond to the amount of the living wage category "family burden', but neither legislation shall take into account the number of dependent minor children. The inclusion of live-in children could possibly also be studied in the context of the reform. The budgetary consequences must of course also be properly assessed. If a change in the existing system proves appropriate, the possibility of its implementation in the KSZ flows will also be examined. So we are preparing a general convergence between the two laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u41	Thank you, Minister. I hear I've given you some ideas. Of course, this also needs to be looked at in the budget, I understand that. If you choose to maintain the law that stipulates that it should be looked at by address, what you save from it may be used to take into account that rising group of single mothers with, for example, four children. They are now getting the same amount as a single man who is going to live somewhere, and there is no logic in that, because that is five more beds that one has to buy if one has been homeless. I have a similar plea for the categories that exist for the living wage. There too, we must dare to look at the children's burden. I hope to see another proposal from you in that direction, or else perhaps I will come up with a proposal myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u42	Mr Minister, the means test to be carried out by OCMWFs is not always so obvious. Currently, the OCMW requests a written statement from a support seeker that the OCMW may in its name request the account position from banks X and Y. However, the problem is that the OCMW does not know if there is another bank Z where an account in the name of the seeker is also open. That's why it's hard to get a really sure overall picture. Some banks also want to transmit the data only via Febelfin. So Febelfin is actually acting as an intermediary. A low-cost and watertight procedure would be the creation of a legal framework to obtain through the NBB a list of all the accounts of the aid seeker opened with the banks. Perhaps we could also consider obliging the endorsed banks to pass on the accounts to the OCMW, without the intervention of Febelfin, when the accounts are on that list. This could easily be achieved by giving the OCMWFs access to the CAP. The first element is particularly important. If the OMCWs have a list of all the accounts of the aid seeker, it could be said that it is up to the aid seeker to decide whether the account may also be looked at. If he does not allow that, then the OCMW cannot conduct a financial investigation and refuses the file anyway, but this leaves the decision in the hands of the individual. After all, I can understand why there is some fear of that. However, that first element certainly seems possible to me. How do you feel about this? Are you interested in giving OCMWFs access to the CAP? Within what period of time do you intend to realize this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u43	Mrs Van Peel, in the context of their assignments, OCMWFs are legally obliged to carry out a social investigation into the aid applicant before granting social services. In this respect, the means test is a crucial part of that research. It is of prime importance for OCMWFs to have information on the existence of a bank account of the aid applicant. It therefore seems interesting to me that the OCMWFs would have access to the Central Contact Point. That is why, at the end of 2015, I already took the initiative to write to the Minister of Finance, Mr Van Overtveldt, and the then Secretary of State responsible for the fight against social fraud, Mr Tommelein, to give partial access to the OCMW. In this exercise it is important to bear in mind the proportionality of the data consulted. In the first instance, therefore, I intend to grant the OMCWs access to data on the existence and only the existence of accounts, with the relevant account numbers available to an aid applicant. Meanwhile, my administration has taken several steps to the other partners, in particular to the FPS Finance. A legal basis will have to be provided, on the one hand, to allow access to the OMCS. Access will have to be granted through the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. The KSZ is currently analysing the needs for the development of that stream. The National Bank of Belgium is working on the development of a web service or stream for future users.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u44	Minister, we will also urge your partners to take action, because this would make things easier. I understand your remark that we will be well advanced if OCMWs know at least about the existence of accounts; it is then up to the client to provide the rest of the data. If he does not, then of course he does not participate in the investigation and that has consequences anyway. I understand your caution regarding the transfer of accounts, but it would be very good if there were any access to the accounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u45	Mr Minister, the profession of psychomotrician is currently the subject of a political and legal debate in Belgium on the recognition of this profession as a paramedical profession. This can take two different dimensions and two different trajectories. This profession has been practised in Belgium since the 1960s by a number of self-employed workers. On 17 October 2016, the Minister for Social Affairs sent a letter to the Minister for Education of the French Community stating her decision not to recognize the profession as a paramedical profession. Since that date, the performance of therapeutic interventions or treatments in psychomotorism by professionals other than occupational therapists, logopedes, orthopedists, physiotherapists or doctors must be regarded as being part of the illegal exercise of medicine. It is of course not without consequences for the self-employed, whether they are long-term active psychomotricians or young people from Belgian and French-language education courses devoted to this profession who have just invested in the profession. The UCM has expressed its concern and hopes that measures will be taken to support these self-employed workers, heavily affected both by the drastic and sudden decline in requests for assistance and by the impact on investments made by some. Will you recognise this sector as a sector in crisis with regard to the social status of the self-employed in terms of contribution obligations and the right to exemption? This request also comes from the UCM. This decision is incompatible with the fundamental principle of freedom to undertake, especially since these self-employed workers who have graduated in the profession they are unable to practise their profession until then accepted by all, including by a wide range of health institutions which use their benefits and services. What are your counter-arguments in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u46	Madam President, as you say, the profession of psychomotrician or psychomotrician has been the subject of a debate in Belgium on the recognition of this profession as a paramedical profession. There has been a legal uncertainty about this issue for a long time. The Minister of Social Affairs, following an opinion of the Federal Council of Paramedical Professions, clarified the situation by considering that the discipline of psychomotorism as a paramedical practice was reserved for logopedes, occupational therapists, orthopaedists and physiotherapists. This clarification does not imply that holders of a diploma in psychomotorism do not have the possibility to carry out their activity in Belgium, but that this activity, as you note, cannot relate to acts falling within the scope of the art of healing if they do not meet the conditions laid down by law. Some opportunities remain for those with only the diploma of psychomotrician; for example, in education, the welfare or welfare sector. I will of course not dwell on the recognition of this profession, which is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs De Block. But I want to answer your question clearly as to the possible incompatibility with the principle of undertaking. As far as I am concerned, it cannot be concluded that this case does not have a number of consequences, even if psychomotricians are not prevented from doing their own work. Only the framework for this exercise has been modified, although the amendments have significant consequences. As you know, these amendments relate to acts carried out in the exercise of the art of healing which are the subject of specific legislation. This demonstrates the importance of prior clarification of the rules of maximum legal certainty. What could not be achieved, unfortunately. My colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs, has just rectified this, as should have been done a long time ago. With regard to the impact that this dossier may have on self-employed workers working in this sector, I agree with you that it may be important, particularly for self-employed psycho-motricians. That is why I asked the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-Employed, an opinion on the appropriateness of recognizing the sector as being in crisis, as may have been the case, for different reasons, following the lock-out of the end of 2015, after the attacks of March 2016 or in the sectors affected by the consequences of the Russian trade embargo. When I get that advice, I'll take a stand. In the meantime, I would like to stress the existing mechanisms which, within the framework of the social status of self-employed workers, enable us to respond to the most difficult situations. For example, when self-employed people see their income decline as a result of a series of factors that they can demonstrate, they can adjust their provisional social contributions, in accordance with the new legislation adopted on 1 January 2015. This adjustment capacity was precisely made possible by this reform of the calculation of social contributions. I also believe that there is an ongoing legal dispute over the decision taken by my colleague, Maggie De Block. I am not opposed, as soon as I receive this opinion, to examining this possible recognition and, if necessary, on the basis of that opinion and analysis, to taking the ad hoc circular. I have also been made aware of this issue, in particular by the UCM, one of the representative professional organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u47	Thank you, Minister. I don't know if you can answer me, but I'm staying with questions. Indeed, it is the Minister of Health who is competent to recognize the paramedical professions. Remains the other acts and fields of activity of the psychomotricians and here, concerning you, the independent psychomotricians. How should the recognition of the psychomotrician as such and not as a paramedical function be done? Will it be recognized as a non-paramedical psychomotrician in order to be able to practise, or is it not necessary for him to practise as an independent person in an institution such as a school? The psychomotrician, for example, engages in psychomotorism with children in a school that organizes this type of course. This is the case in the school in my village where this activity comes alongside dance classes from seven years old. Under this age, it's psychomotority. If this psychomotrician is not paramedical, can he be an independent psychomotrician without having to be recognized as a psychomotrician outside the paramedical profession? Or is that not necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u48	Rather, this came out of my colleague's analysis. I prefer to refer to my colleague the minister on the paramedical aspect and its limitations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u49	My question is precisely what is not paramedical. Should I be recognized or can I settle as an independent psychomotrician who doesn't do paramedics? I think this is an issue that concerns you and, of course, concerns the Minister of Health. I have the impression that it must also concern the competences of the Regions, perhaps, in terms of access to the profession or the recognition of certain professions outside the health professions. I think it's a subject that needs to be dug. I invite you to do so because, among the questions of psychomotricians who currently have a diploma and are practising, the question really arises. They are told that they will be able to exercise outside the paramedical field, but at the same time, what does that mean? Under what conditions? With what recognition or title? What access to what profession? I will come back to this issue later. Indeed, the Minister will not answer a question that does not relate to paramedics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u50	As Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Rita Gantois have not indicated anything to us, their questions Nos 17154 and 17169 are deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u51	Minister, the saga of glyphosate and Roundup, which combines glyphosate with other substances, continues with as many inconsistencies as ever. On 15 March, the European Chemicals Agency considered that this product was neither carcinogenic nor mutagenic. At the same time, there is once again a lack of transparency in the documents available and the studies that serve as a reference. In addition, conflicts of interest against the authors continue to raise questions. Similarly, the association between glyphosate and the other substances that make up Roundup – but this also applies to other products – is not analysed. But we know that formulants are derivatives of oil chemistry and that they are sometimes even more dangerous cocktails than glyphosate. This subject therefore remains a matter of concern. It would therefore be wise for the European authorities to agree to treat it as a whole and to make the studies and reference documents available. The most surprising thing is that, on March 16, American justice declassified internal correspondence to the 250-page firm, where it appears that, since 1999, the producing agrochemical firm knew that glyphosate had mutagenic potential and wondered about the toxicity of the substance. All of these documents were declassified and made available as a result of collective actions by farm workers who had blood cancer and suspected that the substance was the source of the disease. In view of these elements, I wanted to draw your attention again because I thought that perhaps we were reliving the same scenario as that of tobacco or asbestos where, at some point, the producing companies decided to organize themselves and to finance studies that showed that asbestos, for example, with controlled use was not toxic. Today, however, we are witnessing the death of a whole series of asbestos victims and we are trying to compensate the victims. Today, I would like to avoid us being blinded again. Given this two concurrent information, Minister, will you continue to be content with the notice as published by the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) or will you require all sources, data, files to be made public? Will you require verification of all potential conflicts of interest? Do you intend to demonstrate yourself to the European Commission by indicating your refusal to continue placing Roundup and other glyphosate-based products on the market, as long as there is no clarity on the independence and quality of these studies and reports, both from ECHA and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA)? Will you require in-depth studies on the effects of all components of cocktails accompanying glyphosate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u52	Madam President, this is a matter to which I really devote my full attention. I do so in an open manner, i.e. by following the information, studies, contributions and any other information brought to my knowledge and knowledge of my services. We also have an approach that is based on the analysis of a number of our experts and on the proposals they submit to us. I regularly hear about potential conflicts of interest and the independence of our Belgian experts. I also regularly ask you not to hesitate to inform me of any doubts you may have or of any problems you might have identified with regard to Belgian experts involved in European decision-making processes or at Belgian level or in the European post-positioning process. I'm going back to the message. You could even communicate your doubts to me without making a wide publicity of them. So far, however, I have not received any feedback from the interlocutors to whom I have addressed myself, whether during a debate, a meeting or a meeting. You're paralleling the asbestos file. I wouldn't. The context is different in that the relationship between cancer and exposure to asbestos is demonstrated for animal or human health. At this stage, this scientific presumption does not yet appear – I am talking about the conditional, I am nuanced in my remarks, which will not escape you – in the OECD's in-depth evaluations of epidemiological studies suggesting a possible association or in the report of the European Chemicals Agency. We have contributions at the WHO level, but they have been, as you observe yourself, very nuanced. The declassification of some internal documents in Monsanto may change things. I am really in a very careful, cautious, vigilant attitude on this issue. I am very committed to ensuring that our scientific expertise delivers the fruits of a work that I wish to be permanent, rigorous, thorough and of course independent, in order to detect or identify any direct or indirect link between glyphosate and human health. On the European level, the European Chemicals Agency has just spoken. It proposed an interim extension, which was approved, of the authorization to use glyphosate. In a long-awaited report, the Agency confirmed that it did not link glyphosate to carcinogenic consequences. In this context – and you link with US information – our European legislation requires holders of authorisations for plant protection products to immediately communicate to the Member States any new information on the effects on human health, animal health and the environment, on the substances they distribute or hold the authorisations. Failure to inform the competent authorities of the existence of such data would constitute a serious infringement of European legislation. With regard to the publication of data and possible conflicts of interest, I am clear in my defence of an evaluation system that is as transparent as possible with regard to studies, documents, conflicts of interest, if any, of any person involved in the procedure and in the authorisation process. I note, moreover, that the studies considered by Germany – which is the rapporteur Member State –, by EFSA and ECHA are not limited to the studies mentioned, which would emerge from industry. They are also based on much broader studies, scientific literature and a range of well-known elements. It is necessary to take account of all the published studies, the data they provide, the individual observations they allow and the scientific analyses. This allows for the analysis of toxicological mechanisms. Of course, these studies must and are carried out according to a quality/control system by the authorities. This system must ensure the transparency of these studies and their traceability, among other qualitative elements. European legislation provides a list of information that is not considered confidential. If the summaries of the studies are not confidential, the studies are not included in this list. However, the European Court of Justice is currently considering the matter. I will therefore be extremely attentive to the European Court of Justice's examination of this issue. And I will ensure that as soon as his judgment is delivered, it is applied as it should be. I turn to the independence and quality of the studies evaluated by Germany, whether ECHA or EFSA. It is known that these studies carried out by Germany as rapporteur Member State were entrusted, for their evaluation, to the Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung (BfR), which is a German public institution. Whether it is against Germany, the structures I have just mentioned, or against this German public institute, I have not heard any accusations or any substantial evidence that would lead to the saying that these bodies are not independent in their analysis, not rigorous, do not scientifically base their claims. That is why the fact that Germany, as the rapporteur Member State, has entrusted the evaluation of studies to this institute, is an additional element which I think is interesting. It should be noted that the German evaluation was carried out by this independent body. Experts nominated by Member States must submit a declaration of conflicts of interest each year. These declarations shall be published by EFSA. I have already heard that a member has been quelled for some element of conflict of interest. This is proof, in any case, that the mechanism exists and that it works. These expert statements shall be published, together with a list of the public bodies to which the experts belong. Finally, the conclusions of the risk assessment are carried out under the sole responsibility of EFSA. EFSA staff must also submit a declaration of conflict of interest. The European Chemicals Agency also has strict rules on conflicts of interest for its staff members and for experts working with it, including their partners and even their children. In addition, ECHA states that the names of persons involved in the preparation of this opinion are made public after approval of this opinion, in order to avoid lobbying or lobbying attempts by certain companies. ECHA's opinion is available today. The European Commission will draw up a proposal for the renewal of glyphosate at European level. I really want, whatever the decisions, to intervene in these matters with the utmost seriousness and rigour. Before taking such decisions, I receive Belgian speakers from my administration in my office to hear their presentation and analysis. As far as I am concerned, when I have the European proposal following ECHA's opinion, which I have just mentioned, I will carry out an in-depth analysis at Belgian level, surrounded by all the expertise, starting with those of my administration, before taking an attitude. As you see, I'm open. I'm listening. I'm extremely attentive. I regularly hear criticisms of independence. But I have to give you an overview of the mechanisms that exist today, very clearly. I am open to your remarks if you feel that certain things need to be taken into account in relation to a particular stakeholder or structure or institution. At the same time, at this stage, we kept with my colleagues, whether with this dossier or with other dossiers, an attitude based on a number of reports as well as on analyses carried out by our scientists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u53	Minister, I hear in your response your vigilance and a more assertive concern about the need for independence and avoidance of conflicts of interest. This is a good thing because I think it is by reminding and strengthening the rules that the elements can become credible. Two particular points are still troubling me. I have the impression that the difficulty of this type of file lies in the fact that initial reports and studies are carried out by different experts or study groups. In the present case, the question was that in Germany, the group designated for one of the studies was the development of the agrochemical sector and the companies involved. The independence of this group was therefore called into question. The reports that are being prepared today by the European Chemicals Agency do not cover new studies. These are already produced study analyses and an evaluation of methodologies. I therefore feel that we remain in the same circle of relative confidence given since we are trying to determine that what has been done correctly has been done, but we do not give ourselves the opportunity to conduct a study from the outset by considering the substances first individually and then in interaction. This is also the subject of my second concern, which goes beyond glyphosate and concerns all these mixed substances and the cocktail effect of these different substances as an active or coformulant substance but also as a coformulant between them. We really need to insist on this, and you have already spoken in this direction, so that these studies can be carried out on a larger scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic640x.u54	Question No 17439 by Georges Gilkinet is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 17599 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, 17720 and 17719 by Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions. Questions No 17556 by Mrs Rita Gantois and No 17714 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp are deleted.
