ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u1	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, advances in digital technology have profoundly changed our working environment, but also the qualifications expected by employers. Unfortunately, these new digital skills are not available to all. The training which provides them, often paid, unfortunately excludes part of the population from the labour market and places them in economically precarious situations. You recently set up a €18 million fund to finance exclusively projects encouraging the development of digital skills among socially vulnerable people. The aim is to enable the beneficiaries of these training courses to find new jobs in the new technology sector or to become entrepreneurs. The first call for projects from this fund would be launched very soon. The projects selected will be eligible for financial support ranging from EUR 50 000 to EUR 500 000. I welcome this project, which is part of an inclusive approach involving vulnerable audiences and the economic opportunities of the technology industry. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, could you give us an outline of the objectives and specifications of this project? What is the time frame for launching calls for projects and how many beneficiaries are expected for this programme? What are the criteria for the project to be selected by the Digital Belgium Skills Fund? Who will be responsible for evaluating the projects submitted? In addition to providing the necessary funding for their conduct, are there any measures to accompany the projects for their implementation and implementation? Have control measures been put in place to ensure their proper conduct, if any? What partnerships have been developed with the private sector in implementing this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u2	Dear colleague, the Digital Belgium Skills Fund funds projects focusing on the development of digital skills among socially vulnerable children, young people and young adults. This fund has 6 million euros per year and is set up over a period of three years. The Fondation Roi Baudouin was selected, after a call for tenders, as a partner to carry out the selection of projects on behalf of the SPF Strategies and Support. The Digital Belgium Skills Fund wants to finance short, medium or long-term training projects. The Digital Belgium Skills Fund aims to help bridge the digital divide and give more citizens the opportunity to deploy their talents in the digital society and the new economy. The call for applications for projects supported in 2017 was launched on May 8th. The candidates were able to submit their files until June 13. The selection of projects will take place within a few weeks and, despite the very short deadlines, the call for applications has been very successful: 112 projects were finally submitted, of which 69 were Dutch-speaking and 43 French-speaking - many projects with a good linguistic balance. For a total amount of €15,896,963 (2.7 times what can be invested), the jury can select the best projects. The average amount per project is around 140,000 euros and is probably a good balance between small and large projects. The grant application files are currently being reviewed by an independent jury and selected by the King Baudouin Foundation on a number of criteria such as: - the profile of the organisation which enters a file in terms of stability and capacity to execute the project, reliability and affinity with the objectives of the Digital Belgium Skills Fund; - the quality of the projects themselves in terms of compatibility with the objectives of the Digital Belgium Skills Fund; - clarity on the action plan and its financing, as well as the likelihood that the action plan will achieve its objectives; - the willingness to comply with the grant conditions as laid down in the Protocol Agreement which governs the granting of grants. Among the missions of the King Baudouin Foundation, it is specified that the Foundation ensures the information of the candidates: - the procedure to be followed, the documents required, the steps of the procedure, the request and the timetables on which the actors are involved in the procedure; - advising project promoters when preparing their application dossiers to formulate the objectives, activities and financial plans; - by assisting them in drawing up their grant application dossier, in formulating the reasons for any request for correction or refusal. The Digital Transformation DG of the SPF BOSA assumes, after signing the protocol agreement with the organisation that provides the project, control over the execution of the project and compliance with the action and financial plans of the application files. The Digital Transformation DG of the SPF BOSA will also monitor the justification of declared expenditure. The only partnership entered into by SPF BOSA is with the King Baudouin Foundation. Rather, they are candidate projects that seek private sector partners to implement their action plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u3	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the various elements you have given us. We have already had the opportunity to have exchanges on the development of digital technology and the related economic aspect, which is an opportunity provided that it is positively accompanied. I think that this initiative is contributing to this; it is enough to look at the number of projects returned, which amounts to 112, with an average amount of EUR 140,000 per funded project. This demonstrates the success and need of this type of initiative and I can only encourage you to continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u4	Minister, digitalization and artificial intelligence are becoming increasingly important in the world of technology. In a few years already, we will be able to see autonomous cars running in our streets or, for example, robots cleaning up. In addition to these examples, so-called humanoid robots able to decide and move independently will be able to determine our daily life in the near future. At European level as well as in some of our neighbouring countries, legal experts have now addressed the issue of the liability of these androids, for example in the event of default. For the insurance sector, this must be a great challenge. I am well aware that this theme is very complex and I hope that Belgium will not wait until the last moment to inquire about this important challenge. Therefore, Mr Minister, has Belgium already considered the question of the legal basis in the context of robotics? If so, what progress has been made in this area? Have there been any exchanges with the European Commission on this subject and have they advanced the European legal framework in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u5	Dear colleague, artificial intelligence raises legal issues that focus on liability, privacy and security. Many researchers, including Belgian universities, including the University of Liège, are addressing this issue. If artificial intelligence legislation is proposed, it must be at European level, it must naturally be intelligent and focused on clearly identified problems. It cannot unnecessarily prevent innovation and growth and must focus not only on the negative aspects but also on the positive aspects of robotics. I am not in favour of initiatives which propose, without prior evaluation, the creation of an agency to study this problem, as the European Parliament has recently done. I am rather in favour of a targeted approach. One example is the European Commission's policy initiative on data economy. A public consultation has recently been launched in this context. Stakeholders were asked about possible problems and inaccuracies in legislation that are a barrier to innovation. The results of this consultation will soon be published. They will be discussed with the European Commission. Several pilot projects in the field of connected cars will also allow me to gather further data and evidence that will help me to develop an adequate legislative framework at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u6	Minister, thank you. A lot of things are going on, but there's no real timing. But it would be better to have one. We must not rations the train, certainly in Europe. Others are already there. If we do not get there any faster, we will ultimately lose in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u7	Deputy Prime Minister, one of the counter-terrorism measures is the end of anonymity for prepaid cards registered with operators. To this end, users had until 7 June to identify themselves, otherwise they would see their line cut or, at least, suspended. Within a few days of the deadline, the IBPT claimed that almost half of the 3.4 million cards in circulation had been identified and that operators were reluctant to simply cut the lines, preferring to suspend the said cards and leave the holders a year to regularize. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what percentage of cards in circulation relate to cards used in domestic appliances (e.g. alarms)? Is the approach taken by several operators to suspend such cards in accordance with the law? What percentages of cards are still not in order with each operator?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u8	Mrs Jadin, regarding your first question, operators do not have information on the use of anonymous prepaid cards. They therefore do not know whether these cards are used by a natural person or installed in a device. With regard to your second question, pursuant to Article 127(5) of the Telecom Law on 8 June, operators had to disconnect from their networks and services end-users who had not identified themselves. Operators can decide themselves how to implement this disconnection provided that an unregistered card can no longer be used to communicate (calls, SMS and incoming and incoming data), until the user has correctly identified himself. On your third question, the IBPT indicated that about 400,000 of the 3.1 million active prepaid cards were cut off on June 8 because they had not been registered. We found that there was no real problem. The cards that were cut were little or no use. Even if a card was cut off on June 8, it can be reactivated. Given the scale of the operation, I believe that things have proceeded fairly smoothly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u9	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, in mid-May, a very large-scale cyberattack affected a version of Microsoft's Windows XP operating system in dozens of companies and organizations in around 100 countries. By now, we're talking about 200,000 infections around the world. At this stage, British hospitals, the French car manufacturer Renault and the German railways were reportedly affected by this virus called WannaCry. That would also be the case with us. The ransomware in question encrypts and blocks access to the files of the affected computer and asks the user for a ransom to unlock them. It seems that this blockage is impossible to lift, despite the 300 euros ransom sometimes paid by some infected users. At the end of June, a new virus of the same type, called Petya, hit the very large Danish logistics company Maersk using the same operating methods, as well as the company Saint-Gobain and, it seems, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. These massive computer attacks see their origin in a security flaw of Microsoft which, until then, was used only by the NSA as a computer hacking tool. This spying tool leaked and pirates seized it. It seems that this virus attacks the machines of those who use very old versions of Windows like XP. Indeed, Windows XP still equips a lot of computers around the world. However, it is recalled that Microsoft had decided to stop the security updates of this operating system in April 2014. In the face of the scale of the disaster, a security patch has been published in disaster by the US IT giant but not all users have yet installed it. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, since you are Minister of Digital Agenda and Telecommunications, could you tell me the number (absolute and percentage) of computers used by the various federal public services that still use the fully exceeded Windows XP operating system? Among these, which computers were placed with the security patch that appeared in the wake of the first WannaCry crisis? How many federal computers were infected? More generally, does this massive attack on an ultra-dominant operating system in the world (the world, in general, and that of the company in particular), with hegemonic and mass-control aims, not invite you to think about gradually equipping the federal government's computers with open source software, allowing for greater transparency, and thus greater security for our administrations and businesses, but also for all citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u10	Mr Hellings, the number of computers still running on Windows XP is information that is not centrally maintained. Each federal public service manages this in its own way. Within the DG Digital Transformation of the SPF BOSA (Strategy and Support), Windows XP has long ceased to be used. The federal government does not have a general strategy or directive that explicitly imposes the free source. Most federal public services systematically verify, for all their public procurements, whether there are solutions or alternatives that are based on the free source, that are developed and that the total cost of ownership is attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u11	Madam President, Minister, in the face of such a serious crisis, which has affected the functioning of high-performance companies, it would be useful if, as Minister responsible for the Digital Agenda and Telecommunications, you could centralise information on this issue in one place within the federal administrative system. You are forcing me to file dozens of written questions to the various ministers to know the replacement rate of this completely outdated system, Windows XP. My second question about thinking about providing the federal government, in general, with open source software, is twofold. The so-called proprietary systems, like Windows, pose a real security problem. It should not be forgotten that the Windows flaw was initially used not by hackers, but by the NSA, to gain access to data as essential as those managed by our federal administration. These are sometimes personal data, if one takes the case of Health, which concern all citizens and their ultra-private lives. I really invite you to think about this free software strategy. As you know, we are the Francophone environmentalists, the target of computer attacks. Be aware, however, that we have not experienced any difficulties with these WannaCry or Petya software, simply because we operate under free software. So we were not attacked by these secret services, probably Russian or Chinese, or by companies that work for them. That is what is at stake today. As my colleagues have just mentioned, there will be no digital transformation if this digital transformation is not carried out in full respect for the privacy of citizens and the interests of our businesses and administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u12	Mr Minister, this issue has been raised in part by my colleague Mr Hellings. Open source software now appears to be a credible alternative to software currently employed in the private sector, but also in our public administrations. We talked about it right now. It is now rarer to see private companies train their staff to use these software. These computer programs, whose source code is distributed under a license, allow anyone to read, modify or redistribute this software. Many European States have taken advantage of this opportunity to modify and adapt the internal practices of their administrations. In France, the State publishes annually a list of recommended free software so that it can be used knowingly by the various administrations of the country. The use of these free software within the administration has many positive externalities, including reduced cost and flexibility of use. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Which software are most frequently used by our administrations? Is the open source already used by some of our public administrations? If so, who uses this type of software, and for what purposes? Have you had a feedback from them? What are the advantages and disadvantages of open source? Would it be appropriate to impose on our administrations a widespread use of these free software? What would be the legislative and/or regulatory barriers to their implementation? Do you intend to open a global discussion with all federal public services to determine a series of guidelines and recommendations on the proper use of OSS in our administrations? I thank you already for your replies, which are complementary to those already given to my colleague, Mr Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u13	Overall, more and more components from open sources are integrated into the services offered. Here are some examples: Red Hat Enterprise Linux, JBoss instead of Oracle WebLogic, MySQL and Postgre SQL instead of Oracle DB, Drupal in web content management, ELK Stack Zabbix, Eclipse, Nagios, OpenShift and Docker. Most federal public services systematically verify for all their public procurements whether there are alternatives based on open sources, which are at the point of development and whose cost of ownership is attractive. However, the use of the free source is not free. Licenses are often free, but contracts for expertise and support are still required. The free source therefore generates a shift in business models, from licensing to services. The scope of open source solutions is also limited because the principle of free source, i.e. sharing the code, conflicts with the security and ownership of the code, which are often important in the public context. On the one hand, there is an opportunity to reduce the cost of licences, but on the other hand, there is also a risk of a lack of sustainability when public codes are used. The SPF cannot, however, modulate flexibility in line with the evolution of its own tasks and regulations. The business case is, therefore, not always obvious. The appropriateness must be considered on a case-by-case basis, as has been done, for example, for the G-Cloud. This is why the federal government has not developed a general strategy or directive that explicitly requires open source. It also does not provide for the drafting of recommendations on the use of open source. However, it is increasingly choosing open standards, which are often a good alternative when licensing costs can be reduced, flexibility and security are not threatened, and interoperability between services and the international context leads to sustainable IT systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u15	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, The Guardian has recently revealed that Facebook's social network has put in place blurred and untransparent internal notes regarding moderation. These standards and the fact that they are internal are criticized by many experts who want better guidance, better moderation of words that are often "limits". I have already asked several questions in this regard. It is true that, for a State, legislation in this area is not necessarily easy and often worth losing. That said, the experts rightly stress the limitations of automatic control and the inability of moderators to interpret what is part of those cases. I believe that a better European framework and a more precise definition of freedom of expression on social networks should be considered. In any case, I call him my vows. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what legal or/and digital means should be put in place to protect oneself somewhat from this scourge?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in European law, under the e-commerce directive, hosting service providers benefit from two protective rules concerning the content they host. First, it is prohibited for national legislators to impose a general obligation on such providers to monitor such content or to actively seek facts or circumstances relating to unlawful activities. Secondly, the responsibility of a hosting provider may not be exposed to the illegal content it hosts under the following conditions: if it is not actually aware of the content or, if it is aware of it, if it has acted promptly to remove the content or make it inaccessible. Thus, illegal content which is precisely brought to the attention of the social network must be made inaccessible by it if it wishes to retain the benefit of its exemption from liability. In this context, it is permissible for public authorities to make notifications like any other user of the social network. At European level, there are currently no plans to change this rule of law. Indeed, these directives help to improve the functioning of the internal market, which is crucial for a growing European digital economy. At Belgian level, my administration has drawn up a proposal to improve the effectiveness of the notification and action procedures in Belgian law. This proposal is under consideration in collaboration with my colleague, Mr Kris Peeters, Minister for Economic Affairs. In addition, the fight against xenophobic or homophobic behaviour on social networks falls within the competence of Ms Zuhal Demir, Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. With regard to the limits to freedom of expression, it is a question of fundamental rights and freedoms, which fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice, Mr Koen Geens. I therefore refer to my colleagues for further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. The questions were also sent to them. But the answers are, unfortunately, difficult to formulate. We are, of course, for freedom and growth that allow for creation and development, but some forget that freedom goes with responsibility and respect for fundamental rights. Legislating in Belgian law may be interesting but I don't know if it can be effective. We are really facing an insolvent problem with the legal weapons that are available. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u18	Madam Chair, Minister, my question is about the smart regulation of the collaborative economy, which is known as smart regulation. In June 2016, you started an important project by creating a legal framework for the collaborative economy. Enforcement measures have recently been adopted. I note that the regulation you have put in place favours an individual, not a sectoral, approach that would take into account the diversity of practices behind the collaborative economy. However, this type of entrepreneurship should be given a framework adapted to practice, in order to allow its development with due respect for fair competition with the traditional economy. Indeed, these platforms create values and jobs. In this regard, there have been several reactions. The Union of Middle Classes (UCM) and the Brussels Chamber of Middle Classes are calling for the introduction of "smart regulation" whereby a distinction is made between the activities to be encouraged and those to be monitored. They call for a five-criteria review of platforms: - the profit-making or non-profit-making purpose; - the exchange of goods or services; - the frequency of the services; - the type of platform (connection or intermediary); - the status of stakeholders (individuals or companies). As a result, collaborative economy initiatives could be classified into three government-controlled areas: - an area outside regulation where the activity does not induce any exchange of money or property (e.g. couchsurfing); - a smart regulation area where the supplier is an individual and shares costs and/or remuneration (e.g. the Blablacar carpooling service); - a sector-specific regulatory area when the activity is carried out in a professional manner. This would involve the establishment of a legal unit to analyse each individual "collaborative" initiative, as is already the case in Amsterdam. As the UCM points out, it is obvious that the De Croo law can only be a step towards this "smart regulation". In this context, Minister, have you been aware of these recommendations? What answers do you intend to provide? What is your position on this "smart regulation"? Finally, what are your plans for the collaborative economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u19	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, your legislation provides that platforms recognized as such shall retain at source 10% of the income received as a professional discount has been in force since 1 March last. A few months after its entry into force, can you give us an update on the situation? How many companies are registered in this framework? Is this number consistent with your goals and expectations? What first assessment can you draw from it? Have there been any drifts during the first three months? What is the perception of the sector and companies? Some propose to go further by setting up an independent body to analyse all the services offered by collaborative platforms in order to judge whether their societal contribution may be positive. Has such a proposal been submitted to you? What do you think? What are the other examples of regulation and regulation that can be observed in other European countries and from which Belgium could be inspired?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u20	To begin with, Mr. de Lamotte, I learned of the existence of this study through the press. Neither I nor my firm have been contacted by BECI or the UCM for the purpose of communicating the results of the study. With regard to the basis of the recommendations, when I read your question, I do not see how what is proposed differs from what has already been put in place. First, no taxes are imposed in the absence of monetary exchange, nor are there any social and regulatory frameworks. Events with a transparent fiscal and social framework relate to occasional activities with a turnover of less than €5,100. In this case, no administrative action is planned. The source levy is 10% of gross income. This is the fiscal and social framework of the self-employed when the activities exceed the occasional ceiling. You are proposing to impose sectoral rules, but this is already widely the case today. A regulation is provided for the paid transport of persons, tourist accommodation, meal preparation, etc. These provisions are essentially regional, except in the latter case, which is regulated by the AFSCA. More generally, I call for smart regulation. By these terms, I mean: - by default, allow activities and provide exceptions only where they are truly necessary; - do not require unnecessary administrative procedures, which constitute barriers to entry and which disadvantage the very small players - for example, the new Brussels rules on tourist accommodation; - not to believe that the only public authority would be a source of confidence. Thus, technological advances - through online reviews, in particular - allow some operators to give a trust that an administration or regulator is not able to give. Mr.Foret, today there are twelve platforms that were approved on 1 May 2017, according to the FPS Finance information. The list is available on the FPS Finance website. This represents a great success for a market like Belgium, two months after the start of the authorisation procedure. This success is all the greater as it consists of a mixture of actors such as Belgian start-ups and established companies, such as bpost or Daoust. A very large majority of these platforms are Belgian companies from a capital and operational point of view. Recently, different sectors have emerged, such as small home work, food or shared transport. In response to another parliamentary question, the Minister of Finance reported on 6,500 active claimants out of eight of the 12 platforms already licensed. At this stage, this is only an estimate since the approvals have taken place very recently. We will have a more complete view of the volume by the end of the year, but the figures are extremely encouraging. As for the establishment of an independent body responsible for analysing all the services offered by collaborative platforms and judging whether or not they are positive for their social contribution, I have not received a proposal to this effect, but I do not think that such a body is really necessary. Indeed, the best indication of the interest of these platforms is whether they are used by providers or by end customers. If they are not useful, they will disappear because there will be no underlying viable economic model. On the other hand, one of the characteristics that makes these platforms successful is that they create trust between providers and users. The relationship of trust plays in a provider/client relationship much more than in the platform/client link. I therefore do not think that an independent body would have any real added value.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u21	Madam President, I take note of the Minister's replies and of the fact that he is not aware of the study carried out by the Union of Middle Classes and the Brussels Chamber of Commerce. It would be interesting for people to meet to see how to do it. I myself will try to stimulate this contact because, following this study, appears a fear that you are trying to dispel in your answer. I am attentive to the whole of this approach and to how things can be organised if there is a collaborative version and the system of self-employed people working in this sector. I will come back to you when you may have read the study and the Union of the Middle Classes has further substantiated its argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u22	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that the first figures are encouraging, but it is still early to have stronger trends. In my view, it is important both qualitatively and quantitatively to have a mix of traditional companies that evolve and embrace new technology and new ways of maintaining relationships with customers and start-ups that continue to develop new services. The process is constant. It will therefore be necessary to continue to evaluate and develop our legislation. The actions you took a few months ago are encouraging and I would like to congratulate you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u23	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, bpost lives in an increasingly competitive world. Like any company, it is therefore intended to retain or even gain market share. Moreover, as a public undertaking, bpost also has the responsibility to provide a quality service and result for citizens, in particular within the framework of the basic assortment included in the universal service provided for in Article 2.6 of its management contract. However, according to my information, a bpost campaign, which has been going on for several weeks, would be not to distribute and return to the sender the mails (although distributable since the names and addresses are correct) on which he would miss, for example, a mailbox number. bpost has not made any communication in this regard to the public and customers, according to the information I have been able to obtain. However, the danger of this type of action is that customers prefer other players, operators or means of distribution, competitors. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, notwithstanding the autonomy of the management of the bpost public enterprise to which I know you particularly attached, how many letters have not been issued since the beginning of this action? How and from whom do clients have to claim compensation for losses or late payments if the non-distribution would have had financial consequences for those to whom the mail should have been received? Does bpost intend to review its procedures and thus improve the delivery of identifiable and distributable mail? Thank you for your answers to the questions that pose a number of relatively practical problems for many citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u24	Mr Calomne, bpost points out that no specific directive has been given to systematically return shipments with an incomplete address. It is true that it is even more important than before that addresses are correctly indicated on consignments, mainly due to advanced automation, mail sorting and distribution preparation. In these processes, clearly legible and unambiguous addresses are essential. When distributing itself, it is important that the data mentioned on the consignment correspond to the information on the mailbox. This is even more the case for buildings where several boxes are present. A clear, correct and unambiguous numbering of mailboxes is therefore necessary. Therefore, it is important to know that distribution is based on the address and not on the name. The bpost website provides all the information about correct addresses and the customer can also check if an address is complete. The general terms and conditions do not provide for reimbursement of losses or compensation for delay in the event that a non-distribution would have financial consequences. bpost does not see the need to modify the existing procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u25	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the answers you have given us. Although it is indeed important that the address be properly addressed, it is equally important to respect the balance between the efficiency of the distribution – bpost is particularly attached to it – and the concern of its customers, a very large majority of our citizens. Many solicited the bpost services and got that answer. I am pleased to learn that there has been no specific directive, but the message is delivered by the bpost speakers. We will continue to investigate this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u26	Deputy Prime Minister, on May 10, 2017, the French service Cedexis, which is responsible for optimizing traffic to the most consulted French media, was the victim of a denial of service attack. The aim of this service is to make a server unavailable or to slow it down considerably by overloading its bandwidth or absorbing all its resources. In practice, it is a matter of simultaneously sending a large number of queries to the same server, service or infrastructure. Access to many French media, Cedexis customers, was therefore difficult, if not impossible, for one of them. This is an issue for me because I am wondering, on the one hand, about our country's ability to react to this phenomenon and, on the other hand, about the real opportunity to concentrate access to all important sites, including information sites, on a common infrastructure. The risks of attack or breakdown are indeed multiplied by this and the consequences can be catastrophic. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, have large-scale denial of service attacks already been recorded in Belgium? Are they common? If so, which actors were primarily targeted? Are you able to tell us whether this type of attack would have already disrupted the operation of our online utilities? Are all federal public service sites linked to the same infrastructure that could suffer from this type of digital aggression? What are the measures to address this situation? Are there any avenues for improvement? What is your analysis of the possible choice to focus website access on the same server in view of the risk involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u27	Mr. Calomne, the federal government has been the victim of several waves of denial of service attacks. The first wave of large-scale attacks took place between the end of January 2016 and March 2016. We observed a new wave between late April 2017 and early June 2017. We can only provide information on the services managed by BOSA here. For more comprehensive information, it would be interesting to refer to the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre. The targets we are aware of are often belgium.be portal sites, Chancellery sites, crisis sites, INAMI, Justice and Finance sites. It should also be noted that some attacks do not have a flash target and only want to saturate the federal network infrastructure, which is shared for most federal sites. Some attacks, especially in February 2016, have disrupted several services. Unavailability has often been limited to a few hours. For several years, we have been encouraging the hosting of public services in federal data centres. These data centres have a high bandwidth and are organized and managed to limit the impact of these attacks and to respond more effectively to attacks than individual protection in a so-called non-federal data centre. Various organizational and technical measures have been put in place to increase resistance to denial of service attacks. Since March 2016, systems have been able to mitigate most attacks automatically. The impact of the attacks was greatly reduced and the number of attacks observed decreased.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u28	Minister, thank you for this information. Your response is generally encouraging, since, as a result of the measures you have taken at the federal level, these attacks seem to have decreased. Nevertheless, we will always have to remain vigilant. The people behind these attacks can be creative and resourceful. If we put in place measures to avoid some, perhaps others will appear in other forms. We must remain vigilant about these developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u29	Deputy Prime Minister, digital advances are crystallizing tensions on job losses prospects. Some current reasoning tends to minimize real gains in the digital economy, such as increased productivity in businesses or improved service quality. However, new risks specific to digital itself also need to be studied. The economic dependence of companies on certain digital platforms or the lack of concrete governance in digital transformations are just two examples. The future of our economic model lies in the complementarity between man and machine. This is a priority to be developed. You have also invested in this subject, in particular in the widespread development of trainings dedicated to digital skills. I am pleased to know that the digital issue is taken into account in our policies in an inclusive manner. Our companies and public institutions must also be aware of the strategic importance of the data they hold. These are a source of inspiration for adapting and improving the quality of services offered. Their efficient operation would make it possible to increase our performance both economically and in the public service sector. The modes of sharing and the free movement of the latter are therefore a reflection to be carried out. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, are there currently easy ways of sharing and communicating data between public administrations? If not, what would be the obstacles to their implementation? Are you considering conducting a global reflection on the management of data held by our administrations? What is the number of data sets currently available in open data at the federal level? Are you able to communicate to us the economic and financial benefits of this open data policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u30	Mr Calomne, in order to promote the exchange of data between administrations, several authentic sources have been created through various royal decrees and laws. In addition, service integrators have been created at the federal level for eHealth and social security and the rest of the federal government. A single data collection law - the principle only once - has also been adopted. In the creation of the Federal Public Service Strategy and Support (BOSA), consideration of a comprehensive strategy for data exchange was entrusted to the Digital Transformation Office, an obstacle to universally accessible data and the existing legislation on the federal government process that has not yet often been adapted to digitization. In addition, it is of course important to ensure, on an ongoing basis, the balance between the interests of free data exchange and the security of infrastructure against cyber attacks and the protection of privacy. We do not have a comprehensive integrated overview of the extent to which the exchange of data between administrations is encouraged by the aforementioned authentic laws and sources. Only managers of the respective authentic sources can provide a more detailed overview. With respect to the federal service integrator, we can tell you that the exchange of data has increased significantly in recent years. During this Parliament, the monthly traffic of requests processed by the Federal Service Bus has thus increased from 5.5 million messages to peaks of 8 million messages, an increase of 45% in just over two years. The number of authentic sources to which the federal service integrator provides access has also increased annually, as has the number of jurisdictions using its services. For example, there were 23 service families in the previous month, compared to 16 at the beginning of this Parliament, an increase of 43%. Finally, we would also like to point out that initiatives such as G-Cloud, which will allow federal authorities to share not only infrastructure but also services to an increasing extent, contribute to an increase in the use of data exchange standards, both in terms of data content and architecture. To date, more than 700 federal data sets have been reported on the data.gov.be portal in several languages. The federal open data strategy focuses on maximum re-use under minimum conditions, with no obligation for users to register or indicate for what purpose open data is used, nor the amounts of turnover, nor the benefits of re-use of data. It is therefore impossible for me to provide a concrete estimate of the economic and financial benefits of open data at the federal level. A European study estimates that Belgian open data will have a value of €2 billion in 2020 and that Belgian public services will save €5 million in 2020 thanks to the use of this open data.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u31	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the various elements of your response. I take note of the fact that, during this Parliament, the exchange of data has nevertheless increased substantially, since you mentioned a figure of 45%. That's encouraging. We must, of course, continue in this direction, because, as you have indicated, the economic benefits to our country can be significant, both for private companies and for federal public services. That's not to be overlooked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u32	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, you recently introduced a new digital tool called "itsme". Given the large number of Internet services provided by banking agencies, retail chains, public administrations and cultural centres, citizens are often forced to identify with a username and password. However, there is the problem of such confidential data, which eventually accumulates in numbers and diversity to the point of being forgotten by users. Several banking and technology companies have joined forces to develop a unique digital identification tool based on itsme smartphone application. To this end, they have received support from the public authorities, both in terms of the future development of e-government projects, and from accompanying them to bringing the software into line with the legal prescriptions. In this regard, I quote: "In today's world where technological developments are very rapid, the role of public authorities is not to be at the forefront of all new developments, but to create a legal framework of trust that allows the private sector to innovate." Deputy Prime Minister, can you communicate to us the general objectives of this application, including its timetable for implementation? What was the government's support for the implementation of this initiative? You referred to a legal framework. Can you tell us what it is? Finally, in the short to medium term, what federal services could benefit from this unique identification system? Is an interdepartmental task force planned to select priority services that could be covered by the measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u33	Minister, the problem has already been outlined. A lot of questions have been raised about the security of the systems and the privacy protection of the data collected. I have already asked Secretary of State De Backer a question about this and received an answer on the aspects of privacy, but for other aspects he referred me to you. The privacy policy of the application is not clearly and automatically indicated to the users as should be. The declaration also mentions a fairly far-reaching processing of the data, contrary to what was reported at the time of launch. The following data would be kept: identification data such as the name, gender, address, nationality, date and place of birth, ID number, eID, photo, e-mail, cell phone number, - that is already a lot of service address and possibly delivery address and employer, security data such as details about your device, the status of your registration with the mobile operator, the country in which the user is located and so on. When installing the application, the user gives permission to the SIM controller to transfer all these security data to Belgian Mobile ID. All transactions carried out with this app are also kept up to date. It is clear that this company will have access to very much user personal data. These dates are also available for all members, being all participating companies. There is uncertainty about the technical details of the application. On the website a limited explanation is given about the security measures taken, but these are still very vague. In addition, several experts express their concerns on some digital platforms. At the time when this question was submitted, the company had not yet disclosed the source code. In this way, programmers and error seekers from that community could nevertheless help the government to detect errors as happens with operating and the well-known Linux server management package. There is little communication about the potential risk derivatives of the use of such app. Itsme is completely private, but it is also intended that the government will make its sites compatible with this app in the coming months. By 2018 this will have to be completed, because then Tax-on-web and mypension will also be accessible via Itsme. It is therefore a private initiative which will be closely linked to a number of public services. There are a number of questions to be asked. I have some questions. First of all, how was cooperation with this company set up? Did this happen through a tender? Secondly, why does the government opt for a private company that also works with private companies in the search for mobile identification options? Thirdly, what budget is foreseen for this cooperation? Fourthly, what about the security of this application? What guarantees does the government give in this respect? How will these be checked? The fifth and sixth questions were already answered by your colleague, Mr De Backer, who informed us that the opinion of the privacy committee was positive and that the system will have to comply with the European GDPR data directive. Seventhly, what is the vision of letting one person collect all the data about the companies through one private player? Does this bring with it new risk derivatives? Finally, why is the source code of this application not disclosed? What steps do you intend to take to make this possible and thus restore confidence in this system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u34	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, in a world that has become digitalized, the need to enable citizens to have a digital identity is a real and unprecedented step forward. It allows Belgium to consolidate its position in the leading car of the leading European countries in the digital field. In order to generalize the use of this digital identity by the citizen and, in doing so, to speed up the digitization of our company, would it not be interesting to extend the itsme application to the maximum, in particular by allowing start-ups to offer their users a free itsme log, in addition to the Facebook log and gmail log that exist today? This would make the use of itsme very simple for start-ups and quite natural for citizens. By increasing the services accessible via itsme, it is the interest of the device that also increases, and thus its regular use by the general public. The "for business" tab of itsme.be website proposes to become a partner: is that what this is all about? Have many applications been registered to date? Have they received a response? Are there any criteria for accepting or refusing the partnership to some of the companies that would be interested? Is it envisaged to generate an open and public API, like Facebook and Google, in order to allow rapid and efficient implementation? If this possibility has been rejected, what are the reasons? What is the alternative for companies wishing to become partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u35	Madam President, the itsme application is a private identification solution developed by the Belgian Mobil ID, a consortium of private actors (banks and telecom operators) allowing for highly secure authentication. The federal government has not been involved in its development. However, one of the Digital Belgium's projects is to allow easy identification without e-ID card reader and in a highly secure way on government applications from mobile devices. The approach chosen is to integrate private identification services into the FAS, the federal authentication service, via an accreditation system. The itsme application is one of these applications that are candidates for this approval. A draft royal decree determining the procedure, conditions and consequences relating to the approval of these services was approved by the Council of Ministers on 14 June. The service of itme, provided that it complies with the requirements of the royal decree, can then be approved and integrated into the FAS by the end of the year. The Recognizing Government is the Directorate-General for Digital Transformation of the FOD BOSA. The Royal Decree recognition system aims to provide a flexible solution allowing the public authorities, through recognition conditions, to control the qualitative requirements for both the service provider and the service itself. It's not about a government contract. The aim is to allow recognition for multiple identification services and to provide sufficient solutions adapted to the different needs of users. Recognitions shall be granted for a period of three years. The approved services shall be checked for conformity. It is very costly to develop, maintain and exploit mobile identification solutions, as the market is constantly evolving and very diverse. The Digital Transformation DG of SPF BOSA has therefore chosen the path of accreditation of private electronic identification services, in order to control costs, stimulate innovation and ensure that the most advanced means available on the market are obtained. The development of public-private partnerships is a goal of Digital Belgium. I also think that, for the adoption of such services, it is important to have enough volume. This is one of the problems of using e-ID today, it is that most users only rarely use e-ID but use, for example, much more often bank card readers. Therefore, providing private solutions would make it possible to access, among other things, FPS services that people rarely use, through uses that are much more used by users and therefore represent fewer problems with use. The recognition of these private services will provide greater ease of use for citizens since, in order to access government applications, they will be able to use the same identification service they use to access private services (banks, e-commerce, etc.).). As far as the question of whether Itsme meets the requirements of security and privacy protection is concerned, I do not yet have an answer. The criteria to be met by all approved identification services are set out in the draft Royal Decree. That draft Royal Decree was submitted to the Commission for its opinion on the protection of privacy. These criteria cover the technical and functional aspects, the quality of services and the economic and legal aspects. These recognised solutions should, inter alia, meet the requirements regarding the level of reliability high or substantial, as provided for in the European Implementing Regulation 2015/1502. This Implementing Regulation lays down the minimum technical specifications and procedures for the levels of reliability of electronic identifiers and implements the European eIDAS Regulation 910/2014 on electronic identification. If a candidate meets all the conditions of recognition, a cooperation agreement shall be signed and the service shall be included in the Federal Authentication Service FAS. None of the data derived from the government applications shall be transmitted to the approved identification service. The only information exchanged between the recognised identification service and the FAS is the national registry number, which, of course, serves to identify the citizen. The authorised identification services may only use this identification number within that framework. They may not communicate this to third parties. Having access to the source code of the recognised service is not stricto sensu part of the criteria, but service providers should be able to demonstrate, for example, through audit reports, that their services meet the required conditions. The publication of the source code is also not necessary if you have equivalent alternatives. It is only useful if one would depend on one provider. The success of the application will depend on the number of users who will use it as a means of identification. They will be all the more encouraged to use it, as there will be a large number of organizations to identify themselves through it. Among the organizations, start-ups are also a potential commercial target and can use these services if they feel it is relevant. Regarding the generalization of digital identity by means of itsme, it will indeed be interesting to see how this new system could integrate alongside the existing log-in offered by gmail and Facebook. Nevertheless, this initiative from the private sector, my administration has only specific responses to the business choices of the itsme development consortium. The "for business" tab, quoted by Mr.Foret, allows companies considering using this means to contact itsme managers. This tab cites six companies that have already joined this tool. As far as closing the digital divide is concerned, I would point out that the existing means of identification, such as eID, tokens and so on, will remain available. It is therefore not necessary to have a smartphone to register with government online services. Public administrations will also continue to be accessible by non-electronic means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u36	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. This symbolic dossier demonstrates the positive complementarity that may exist between the public and the private sector. As you have said, it is not necessarily up to the public services to develop all the new technological tools themselves. On the other hand, it is their responsibility to create a favourable and secure framework for the emergence of these new tools, so that they can develop, wherever the initiative comes from. I will follow the development of this issue with the utmost attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. You have given a clear picture and you have answered all the questions clearly. It is particularly important that we keep a close eye on the aspect of privacy. That must remain an absolute concern, which is why I am also looking forward to the advice of the Privacy Commission you referred to. Especially when there is cooperation with the government and the public authorities, we must be very careful about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u38	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your responses on the accessibility component of the application to start-ups. I think it is important that the private consortium can benefit most of this technology. I have no doubt that you will encourage him to do so. Start-ups need it to grow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u39	Madam President, I would like to make a little clarification. Looks like I made a mistake reading. I shall therefore repeat that sentence. The draft royal decree determining the procedure, conditions and consequences relating to the approval of these services was approved by the Council of Ministers on 14 July, not June as erroneously stated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u40	We will correct it, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u41	Minister, there have been delays in the payment of bpost staff salaries for more than two years. When the company adopted a new wage-calculation programme in January 2014, workers began to receive illegible payroll slips on a monthly basis. Since 2015, there has been an increase in the number of errors in the payment of income - but also in the record of days off. The Christian trade union, overridden by the situation, decided to call on bpost to resolve the problem. If things do not change positively by 1 September, the CSC will encourage its affiliates to systematically file complaints with the Social Law Inspectorate for each error found. The trade union leaders point out some examples, as reported in the press: "Some employees find themselves with a salary of 365 euros, because the employer has unduly paid them an allowance and he recovers the overpayment in one time. One employee recently received 600 euros too much and 37 lunches instead of about 20. For a period of two months, the professional discount was not withheld from new employees. And then, the next month, bpost gets his due. Some staff members do not receive pay slips or salaries. They must then ask for an advance. Hundreds of people are expected to have a proper record of their days off." On the bpost side, the spokesman admits that the computer systems used, both for the calculation and payment of wages and for those of days off, "have experienced problems at the start, of youth diseases", but he tempers the claims of the Christian union by stating that "on days off, technical problems remain" and that they "committed themselves to solving them by September". In the case of wages, however, the situation would be stabilized. Minister, were you aware of these recurring payment problems and salary slips that have been repeated since the beginning of 2015? If so, why didn't you react earlier? If not, is it normal for a company not to communicate such unacceptable errors to you for staff? In addition, how many requests for advance payments were received by staff members in this regard? Have they been systematically accepted? Indeed, the problem appears clearly through the example I mentioned. What steps do you intend to take - or does the bpost company intend to take - to ensure that such mistakes do not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u42	Madam President, Minister, my colleague presented the context for the problem of paying wages at bpost. Since January 2014, bpost has adopted a new salary calculation program. Since then, workers have been receiving illegible pay slips. And, since 2015, there have been numerous errors in the payment of income, in the delivery of meal vouchers and also in the statement of days off. Wage management is one of the most important things in a company, a fortiori in a public company as bpost. While a program may encounter some youth mistakes at its launch, it is not acceptable that these errors persist for so long. Each employee is entitled in time and time to the salary due to him or her. Minister, I would like to point out here that my question was tabled in early June. Do you confirm this information? What are these problems really due to? How can they be resolved? Have you started solving them? Did you ask bpost to regularize the situation as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to point out that bpost is an autonomous company listed on the stock exchange and free to determine its commercial and operational strategy. It is not for me to interfere in the day-to-day management of the company. I also refer to my answer to Question No 17098. bpost has already confirmed that the new benefit management and compensation calculation system introduced in May 2016 has shown certain youth illnesses, notably in the area of the treatment of absences, days of rest or leave. These problems were addressed one after the other. Currently, some leave counters still contain errors. bpost makes every effort to ensure that leave meters display the correct data as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u44	Minister, thank you for your rather concise answer. As we know, you are not responsible for the day-to-day management of bpost, but there are important problems here that are not limited to technical problems. They are men and women who, at all levels of the bpost hierarchy - it is known that she employs many categories of employees - do not receive their wages on time, their days off, and must ask for advances. You know the business world well. As far as I'm concerned, I also know him a little. This is particularly unpleasant. This is completely unacceptable when it is a public self-employed company and, moreover, listed on the stock exchange. You could have further developed your explanations of future actions, actions to be taken, and especially advances - you mentioned the leave counters, very well! These are real job quality problems for these employees. They have had to ask for advances and it is particularly embarrassing in a business context; I think you will not contradict me! I find your answer a little light, even if you're not the director of bpost Human Resources, because the problem is important. I would have hoped for a little more details, concrete measures on this subject. I take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u45	Madam President, thank you. Indeed, the answer is a little short and very disappointing as a result. To say that the problem will be solved as quickly as possible is a bit like breaking an open door. Minister, we expected more from you. Households depend on these wages!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u46	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the purchase negotiations initiated by the Tournaisis police area to acquire a post office building in Bléharies, a village in the municipality of Brunéhaut. This procedure was initiated by the police college, already a few years ago, through contacts, site visits and negotiations with bpost Real Estate as well as the formulation of a request for price estimation to the acquisition committee. This building would be perfectly suited to the operation and implementation of the local police in Brunéhaut. The accommodation conditions of the current police station no longer suitable, the police area college of the Tournaisis is keen to see this dossier emerge and materialize. The post office building is currently only very partially used. Only access to a bpost counter occupies a small part of the building (only 10% of the surface). Sorting, dispatching mail, preparing tours, etc. are exclusively in Tournai. The desire of bpost seems to be to want to keep public access that would allow the same service as currently but in a more rational way. For this reason, the municipality of Brunehaut offers it a suitable space right next to the current building. The financial set-up and the correct location meet the legitimate bpost return on investment objectives. Minister, can you tell me what your intentions are with respect to the offer to purchase this building from the Tournaisis Police Area? Should a selling price be fixed? Will contacts be resumed with the police zone in the near future? Will the negotiations be concluded soon? Could you give me a precise agenda for any steps that might be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u47	Mr Delannois, bpost confirms that contacts are under way between the municipality of Brunéhaut and the police zone of Tournaisis. The accommodation conditions of the current police station are no longer adequate. In terms of location and functionality, the bpost building perfectly meets the needs of the police area. All parties are currently considering the different scenarios that could lead to a satisfactory solution for each. At this stage, it is not yet possible to provide a precise timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u48	Minister, thank you for almost repeating my question and confirming everything I have said, concluding that there is no agenda. I expected you to play the role of messenger or factor in this case, in the face of the inertial force that we often know in Belgium. If you could, although at the moment the tendency is to unplug the sockets, make sure to reconnect them so that each one advances and finds a conclusion in this file in which everyone is taken and interested while many people currently seem to sleep on their laurels, it may be time to wake up and shake the coconut tree! Thank you and I'm sure I can count on you in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u49	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, the European bodies have launched the WiFi4EU initiative, a vast plan to equip the city centres of the European Union with thousands of free wireless Internet access points. A budget of EUR 120 million is mentioned to finance these accesses in 6 to 8 000 municipalities. In order to take advantage of this plan, the municipal administrations and public bodies will have to submit a formal request themselves. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Digital Agenda, do you know what criteria will be set for the selection of the city centres chosen under this European plan? Will eligible administrations, municipalities and other public entities be notified directly of the procedure to be followed and of the registration procedure? If not, should the government not encourage them to apply? Do you intend to take any initiatives on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, not all the arrangements have yet been agreed. The legislative process is still under way. The application must be submitted via a dedicated website. The public administration will have to acquire the necessary equipment from a supplier who has been approved on the basis of the applications and will pay by means of a voucher, probably between EUR 15 000 and EUR 25 000; then subscribe to a high-speed internet subscription. The minimum requirements have not yet been established. The principle is that the first come is the first served, within the available budget. The first phase is expected to start around October, with a budget of EUR 20 million, and will be limited only to municipal administrations, and not to other public administrations such as libraries, which will only have access to the programme from the next phase. A few months ago, a first communication was sent, at my request, to the mayors to inform them of the initiative. In the coming months, as soon as the modalities are set, we will give them more details so that they can react quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u51	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I hope that there has been a first reaction from the mayors, pending the practical arrangements. If the principle is that the first come is the first served, we will have to go fast. We know that sometimes some communes are a little slow to relax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u52	Vice-Prime Minister, at the end of 2016, the European Commission announced an ambitious reform aimed at putting Europe at the forefront of the digital revolution and boosting its economy through the deployment throughout the continent of new ultra-fast motorways of communication. Including telecom operators, the plan envisaged reducing the legislative framework to encourage them to invest in the networks of the future (5G and fibre optics). These operators were enthusiastic. Since then, unfortunately, the situation has changed, as the European Council and the Member States do not share the Commission's view on the means to be implemented and the regulatory framework to be adopted. Vice-Prime Minister, it is certainly not with you that I must insist on the need for Europe and Belgium to allow the deployment of an efficient ICT infrastructure capable of supporting digital technologies of the future. Europe has no choice, it must play a role as a world leader in 5G, otherwise it must cross over the enormous opportunities it has in terms of economic and societal development but also in terms of jobs. For example, our Parliament has expressed its great majority in favour of the rapid development of autonomous vehicles in Belgium. This technology, like so many others, requires ultra-fast and high-performance connectivity. The delay of States on this issue can be dramatic, because harmonization across the continent will be necessary in this area. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, can you report on the state of play of the discussions between States on the Commission's proposal in this area? To your knowledge, what is the room for manoeuvre for a successful outcome of these discussions to date? What is Belgium's position within the Council of Europe? Can you reassure us of the federal government's vision of digital development and the willingness to move towards a single digital market in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u53	Mr Foret, the federal government fully supports initiatives to enable ultra-fast and efficient 5G connections in the single European digital market. Discussions are under way between Member States, which, as part of the development of the new electronic communications code, are mainly aimed at the rapid and successful introduction of 5G in Europe. These discussions should allow for harmonised provision of spectrum within the European Union. In this regard, the European Commission has set up a working group to share good practice between Member States. The deployment of 5G is one of the priorities of the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. At the informal ministerial summit in Tallinn on 18 July, Belgium argued that priority should be given to the issue of the release of the frequency bands necessary for the rapid deployment of 5G, while ensuring that the costs associated with this deployment can be controlled in order to provide the necessary predictability to operators who need to make the appropriate investments. At the end of the summit, Belgium signed a joint declaration by the 27 countries of the European Union on the strategic axes for the development of 5G in Europe. At Belgian level, measures have already been taken to make the 5G frequency bands available as quickly as possible. A consultation on this issue is underway for the allocation of frequency bands over 700 MHz and 3.6 GHz.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u54	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers and for the clarifications on the status of the case. I have no doubt that you will weigh your weight in the next discussions, based on the Belgian forces involved in the various working groups for the deployment of 5G and fibre optics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u55	Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, in the press, the federal government announces that it is working on an automated system for the exchange of information between administrations and service providers to speed up and facilitate procedures in situations such as a move, a death, a request for a social tariff. Indeed, the initiative, led by your colleague Jan Jambon, intends to limit the steps to be taken for the citizen and, I quote, "from the moment the scheme is active, you will have to ask only once for information from the citizen. For example, in case of a change of domicile, once the address has been changed in the National Register, a notification will be sent directly to the service providers participating in the project." So no need to contact them one by one. With regard to updating the identity card to take account of such a change, some avenues would be under consideration in order to make possible, for example, a remote change of address without requiring a move of the citizen. However, in order to enable these developments, the government has had to look at the regulatory framework, the idea being to adapt the texts to make possible the opening of the National Register databases to private partners. However, there is no fear, according to Jan Jambon, that "these partners will not have access to the data" as such. They will simply receive an automatic notification indicating a specific change for which authorisation had to be granted by the user. And, for skeptics, your counterpart says that there will be no obligation to use the future service. It will be deployed on the principle of opt-in, i.e. the need for the authorities to obtain the prior consent of a user to benefit from it. Therefore, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the time frame for the implementation of the Single Digital Window? What is the cost of this project? How is it funded? Is there a budget line for all federal administrations or is there a specific line in each administration's budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u56	Madam President, Mr Kir, let me first clarify what is meant by "single digital window". The approach that I prefer with my administration is that of the no wrong door. In other words, the goal is not to have a single access point for all government digital services, but to have easy access from one service to another. This approach is implemented in two complementary ways. The first way is to put in place the components of basic services and the regulatory framework. The second way is to bring together initiatives that digitize interactions between citizens or businesses and public services. The implementation of this project is part of the Government's action plan covering the period 2017-2020. The implementation of the basic components to support and harmonize the digitisation of interactions is underway and will be completed in the course of 2018. The digitalisation of interactions between citizens and businesses is carried out in stages, year by year. The sequence of realization is defined by the interest of digitalisation which is a compromise between the intensity of use of the process, the gains of use for the user and for the public services and the effort necessary to adapt the systems in place. The digitalisation of all interactions between citizens and companies will of course take a long time, beyond 2020 and it is well reported that important digital interactions have already been in production in recent years, supported by well-known applications such as Tax-on-web, Biztax, eDepot, etc. The direct cost of this plan for 2017 is calculated at €6.5 million. The estimate is that the implementation of this plan will commit a comparable amount in the coming years. An equal budget is already included in the 2018 budget estimates. The exact cost will be determined by the composition of the portfolio of initiatives and the pace of its implementation. This budget is provided for the years 2017 and 2018 by a budget provision managed by the Minister responsible for the Digital Agenda. The digitization of interactions between public services and citizens and businesses is a strategy of all public services. It allows them to optimize their services to citizens and businesses and to optimize their internal costs and operations. Part of their budget is therefore also committed by this strategy. A budget line for all federal administrations is not planned for 2017 or 2018. Implementation of the plan is under way. The programme has an average portfolio of 22 projects: three are already closed; nine are in implementation; seven are in the definition and detailed planning phase; three are still to start after the summer holidays; eighteen are in the first track of the plan to implement basic components and services; four are in the second track of the plan and ensure the digitization of interactions with citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u57	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. At the outset, you made it clear that the title of the programme may be an error of assessment. One is talking about a one-stop shop, whereas in reality it is rather a facilitation in the service provided between users, public services and businesses. There may be work to be done here: redrafting the title of the plan and the programme. For the rest, I will discover your answers in more detail and come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u58	Minister, according to an article in La Libre on 13 June, your security counterpart, Jan Jambon, and you had launched an awareness-raising campaign, among the general public, in BE-Alert, a system allowing the authorities to quickly spread a message to the public in the event of an emergency. This is an extremely important and ambitious project. In concrete terms, BE-Alert makes it possible to alert the population through new channels, a mayor, a governor or the Minister of the Interior who can now decide to warn citizens of a danger by voice call, SMS or e-mail. Indeed, I quote: "The goal is really to alert the population as quickly and effectively as possible,... Security has become a really important issue; everyone is now convinced of it. In this context, by making it possible to reach the right target groups as soon as possible and by allowing them to know what to do as quickly as possible, BE-Alert is a powerful tool that meets the needs of the field and the latest technological advances." According to this article, "BE-Alert was born in 2014 as a pilot project of the Federal Crisis Centre. It was tested for two years by 33 municipalities before being generalized. At present, some 200 towns and villages have joined the system and "are said to have signed a convention which has also given them access, since 13 June, to the Alert-SMS platform", a technology which enables them to send an alert text message to citizens on the basis of their location. The SMS alert allows you to locate the SIM cards of all people within a defined radius around the site of an accident and send them a text message, even if they are not registered with BE-Alert. Therefore, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions: in a practical way, how does this system work? How many people have been registered since its official launch to date? What has been your assessment of his period of experimentation? Have any gaps been identified in its application? If so, which ones? What improvements are planned to make its use more effective? What follow-up will be given to this campaign to continue to raise public awareness? The press article links BE-Alert to Alert-SMS. However, this is not provided for in the draft law inserting an article 106/1 in the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, which aims to allow the sending of a text message to the population in case of "immediate danger" or "major disaster" in order to limit its damage. Could you give me more details about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u59	Minister BE-Alert, the new citizen alert system has been in operation since mid-June. Recently, we learned from the press that the Crisis Center of the Interior FPS and the commune of Rotselaar l'had tested during the Rock Werchter festival. A total of 40,000 devices received a test message. What conclusions do you draw from this first test? How many people are registered on BE-Alert? Is a new registration campaign planned? Like my colleague Kir, I thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u60	First of all, I would point out that the BE-Alert platform and the Alert-SMS project are the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister of the Interior Jan Jambon. BE-Alert is the platform of the Inland FPS, which brings together, for the authorities responsible for crisis management, the means of warning and communication to the population. The Alert-SMS application is one of the public communication channels available on the BE-Alert platform. Alert-SMS will draw up, at the request of a competent crisis management authority, and through the BE-Alert platform, lists of mobile terminals present at a certain time in a delimited area, defined by that authority, to which a short alert message must be sent within the shortest possible time. My services are competent to supervise the protection of electronic communications networks and services, as defined in the Telecom Law. Article 106/1, inserted in the Telecom Law by the Law of 7 December 2016, introduces the principle that operators providing publicly available mobile electronic communications services must cooperate with the central communication platform of the Minister with the Interior in his responsibilities. Upon publication of the Royal Decree, in accordance with Article 106(1), the cooperation of all Belgian service providers to Alert-SMS will be compulsory. The legal framework makes no distinction according to the geographical or demographic size of the city or municipality. The same article also explicitly mentions provincial governors, as they coordinate crisis planning and response to a crisis on their territory. Beyond the legal framework, operators continuously monitor the operation of their network and have installed systems to prevent network saturation by sudden or unexpected events. I was able to see that this collaboration had borne fruit during the first tests in Waterloo and at the Werchter rock festival. For the answers to the other questions, I refer you to the Minister of the Interior Jan Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u61	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I have taken note of.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u63	Question No 19550 by Mr Peter Dedecker is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u64	Madam President, Minister, in October 2014, the European Commission brought Belgium before the Court of Justice of the European Union for the lack of independence of its national regulator in the field of telecommunications: the IBPT. Although it had been formally requested by the Commission in April 2014 to adapt its national legislation in order to guarantee the independence of its telecommunications regulatory authority, Belgium had not implemented it. This infringement procedure is part of the European Commission's efforts to ensure the independence of national telecommunications regulatory authorities. An independent regulator is, in fact, essential to the proper functioning of a liberalised market. Minister, what about this issue today? What is the status of the proceedings before the European Court of Justice? What measures have been implemented by your administration to comply with the European Union's requirements for the IBPT?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u65	Mr Flahaux, the independence of the regulator has in the meantime been restored by the government. On the occasion of the law of 16 May 2015, the controversial provisions – that is, Article 15 and part of Article 34 of the Law of 17 January 2003 on the Statute of the Regulator – were repealed to respond to the criticisms of the European Commission, which put an end to the infringement proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u66	Minister, your answer is clear and precise. I have no other comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u67	Madam President, once again, it seems that I have spoken about the law of 16 May, when it is 16 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u68	Definitely, you have some problems with the months, minister. We note the correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u69	Mr Minister, on 9 May last in the Infrastructure Committee, I asked you about the European Commission's notifications to Belgium regarding its postal market. According to the Commission, this market is in a monopoly situation. It considers that the conditions for obtaining a postal licence are too complex in our country. You then replied as follows: "The European Commission sent Belgium a reasoned opinion. It objected to the conditions for obtaining a postal licence. These objections concern the obligation to be able, within two years of the start of the activity, to guarantee the distribution of mail twice a week; the obligation, within five years of the start of the activity, to ensure territorial coverage; the obligation to apply a uniform tariff, per customer, throughout the territory of compulsory coverage. I intend to propose to repeal these conditions for obtaining a postal licence under the new postal law being developed within the government. Exercise is complex and takes some time. I hope, however, that a compromise can be reached so that a draft can be submitted to Parliament by the summer." The repeal of these three conditions can have a significant impact on the Belgian market, whether in terms of the degree of competition or the level playing field compared to bpost. In particular, the removal of the obligation to apply a uniform tariff throughout the territory will allow, for example, a new postal operator to distribute mail at broken prices within an urban area such as the Brussels Region and to charge prohibitive prices for other regions of the country that are more remote or less densely populated. Do you confirm that you want to repeal these three conditions for obtaining a postal licence? When do you intend to introduce the new postal law containing this repeal? A decision came in the Council of Ministers last Friday which validates the text at first reading, but is the repeal there and when will it be possible to discuss it in Parliament? If these conditions are repealed, do you identify potential negative market impacts? Finally, do you intend to take measures to compensate for these possible impacts in terms of social dumping, unfair competition (price wars, the use of false independents), significant price differences between the different regions of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u70	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, you're asking me when we can discuss this in Parliament. I'm in. Ask questions, I'll answer them!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u71	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u72	You also refer to the differentiation of tariffs from a geographical point of view. The one who executes the universal service - for now it is bpost - does not have the possibility to differentiate prices. There is a single rate. Whether you live in Brussels, Poperinge or Libramont, the price is exactly the same. Last Friday, at my initiative, the Council of Ministers gave its green light at first reading to the draft of the new postal law. The draft is currently before the Council of State and I intend to be able to present it to Parliament after the summer. This bill provides for the removal of these three conditions for obtaining a postal licence. The abolition of these rules responds to the objections of the European Commission, which asked Belgium, at the end of April, to lift them within two months. At the same time, this bill guarantees the conditions for quality work for the postal sector. Today, the Belgian postal sector employs more than 25,000 people. This project provides for equitable social conditions for these workers, mainly for contractual jobs, which will effectively combat social dumping and false independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u73	Minister, thank you. I am well aware that the repeal is the result of the notification of the European Commission. That said, the Belgian postal market will be significantly affected, as it employs - as you have pointed out - several tens of thousands of people. It is therefore important to provide for strict social and environmental conditions and measures. We will read carefully the bill you are announcing for the new year. These conditions have already been repealed in other European countries. As a reminder, the United Kingdom applies a price difference depending on whether the mail is shipped to London or elsewhere. If new players come to the market, who would lose? Simply, people who live in more remote or less densely populated areas. That is what we want to avoid. If I understand correctly, we'll be able to discuss it again when we get back to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u74	It will be a big debate, Mr. Vanden Burre and Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u75	Madam President, someone said that the first would be the last and the last would be the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u76	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u77	It's an exchange we have between us today. Having said that, I'll let you go on your business at noon. I wouldn't want to slow down the running governance!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u78	From the Pension Fund... It's a crazy thing too!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u79	I will not reply by telling you that you want to see me go to the pension as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u80	Mr Devin, I ask you to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u81	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, on Friday, March 31st – it was a while ago – three post offices in the Liege region went on strike following the implementation by management of a new organizational plan that increased the services of the site from 38 to 41 when staff had requested that the number of services increase to 42. According to trade union website 6com, the bpost management went to the right Rive office accompanied by a bailiff and the police in order to take the identities of the strikers while no strike picket was installed. Minister, what are the consequences of this strike picket? Is there a social dialogue between the different parties? Where are we?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u82	Mr Devin, bpost sent me the following answer: "The company respects the right to strike which it does not question in any way. Like every right, this right to its limits. In this context, the President of the Court of First Instance issued an order requiring an end to such conduct incompatible with the normal exercise of the right to strike. It is the normal execution of this judicial order that explains the presence, early in the morning, of members of the management, a bailiff and the police that classically accompanies the bailiffs in this type of procedure for preventive purposes. As part of the social dialogue and in order to get out of the strike, bpost decided to withdraw the new organizational plan and to start the reorganization work again."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u83	Minister, do you know where we are today because the facts occurred on 31 March and we are now in July? I imagine that, since then, progress has been made or not. This is not a trap question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u84	I don't doubt it. Indeed, this is not your habit. I do not have any additional information, but I am going to ask if any progress has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u85	Once you have received the information, I would be grateful if you would share it with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u86	Of course. Keeping it only for me wouldn't be very interesting!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u87	Minister, we have learned from the press that Proximus will increase its rates from 1 August. We received Mrs. Leroy right here last week. We were able to read your statements and his statements. This is an unprecedented increase in the price of mobile telephony in Belgium, which is the result of a public operator whose government has deprived itself of all control at the beginning of the legislature. Coincident with the schedule, we learn this tariff increase two weeks after the end of roaming. Ms. Leroy spoke of an unfortunate timing coincidence and a misunderstanding. This rise in the price of mobile telephony is part of a steady increase for consumers in the price of other telecommunications services (fixed internet, digital television, etc.).). Minister, since you took office, I would like you to remind us of what you have taken as initiatives to make telecommunications services more accessible to consumers. You are introducing a bill that will put an end to the obligation for operators to propose to the consumer the most interesting tariff plan. Your predecessor had launched large-scale campaigns to encourage consumers to compare rates between operators and, above all, he had tabled a third Telecom package particularly favourable to consumers. In the face of this rise, you said, "You have to leave Proximus." You are using market logic that, in your opinion, should lower the prices of the sector. However, this single market logic does not seem to have had much positive effects on Belgian consumers in recent years. Minister, do you intend to take initiatives to ensure that there is real downward pressure on prices paid by consumers? Should a public undertaking not justify to its principal shareholder, and on the basis of objective elements, the price increases that it intends to impose on its customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u88	Mr Devin, thank you for your question. First of all, as Minister of Telecommunications, my mission is to ensure that competition is sufficient in the telecoms market and that there is sufficient choice to lower prices. To increase competition and the choice to lower prices, Easy Switch has been in effect since the beginning of July. It allows customers to change operators much more easily. In addition, I have asked the IBPT to increase transparency, including through the modernization of the rate simulator, so that customers have a better understanding of the most advantageous offers. Over the past 10 days, we have also received a new market analysis from the IBPT. That's a good thing. It proposes new measures for more competition without abandoning investment incentives. In this way, competition is increased, leading to lower prices. Finally, Proximus is an autonomous company, competent to determine its own retail pricing policy freely. For Proximus, I want a long-term policy that is positive for the country, the company and consumers, which means taking measured investment risks and learning to face more competition. That is clearly my choice and my intention. These tasks lie with the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u89	Minister, last week we had a long debate with Mrs Leroy. I hear your position today and I take note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u90	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, on 15 June marked the end of telephone roaming in the European Union. After several years of negotiations, the European Commission has finally removed the principle of consumer overbilling, which, from Lisbon to Helsinki, to Brussels, wanted to be reached. While it is unanimously welcomed by the citizens, the end of telephone roaming is marked by a number of considerations that are not always well known or understood. Users will be able to use their national package when travelling to a European Union Member State at no cost. However, this principle applies only to the condition of issuing national communications. Calling a Belgian number from Rome or Lisbon will not cost one more euro, but park on the bill if a call is made to a foreign number. Indeed, an additional cost applies in this case and can range from €0.65 to €1.05 per minute within the European Union. In addition, the use of the data could be charged up to a maximum of 7.70 euros if the user's fee was exceeded. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what obligations do telecommunications companies have to inform their customers about roaming charges that have been applied since June 15th? Is there any information campaign planned by your services, in collaboration with those of the IBPT and the main telephone operators?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u91	Madam Chair, as a question from Ms Detiège was attached, my answer is in both languages. Roam Like at Home now allows people to make much cheaper mobile calls and surfing within the EU. Especially now that summer holidays are coming, the abolition of roaming charges is good news. However, it is important to know the rules well. That is why I have distributed a communication about these rules together with the BIPT and the FPS Economy. I'm gonna take them together for a little while. Firstly, the new regime applies to the European Economic Area. In addition to the 28 EU Member States, these include Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. Roam Like at Home is therefore not applicable to, for example, Morocco, Turkey or the United States. Secondly, Roam Like at Home applies initially to the call minutes, the text messages and the dates included in the mobile subscription. Unlike in the past, no additional costs will be charged for this. If one goes outside his subscription, there will be additional costs. The additional costs charged for communicating too much in Belgium or roaming outside his subscription are the same. It is therefore very important to know how many call minutes, text messages and dates are included in the subscription. The European rules provide for two exceptions. The first is a reasonable rule of use, so that abuse can be avoided: for example, persons who call more abroad than within their own country. In this case, the operator could charge an additional cost, the amount of which should be included in the general conditions. The company will then have to inform its customers. The second target is gsm operators who lose more than 3% of their margin by offering Roam Like at Home. The main concerns are those who use another's network – the Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNO). They do not take advantage of the turning consumed by foreign customers on their network. For them, this new regulation will therefore represent a net loss. They may request a derogation from the telecoms regulator. To date, the IBPT has approved only one for a period of one year, which concerns VOO customers, who have a volume of roaming per day limited to 60 minutes of call, 60 SMS and 200 MB of data – after which an additional cost will be applied. Roam Like at Home is an important step forward, but people need to learn about it from their operator. It is also useful to check if other companies are not cheaper and if it is not better to change them, while keeping their phone number. Moreover, it is a very simple and very fast process. With regard to Mr Calomne's question, the roaming regulation requires operators to automatically send their customers a message when they arrive in another country. A cooperation campaign with the IBPT and the SPF Economie was launched shortly before 15 June to inform companies as best as possible of the contours of the new roaming regime. Finally, I would like to address the issue of international calls from Belgium, i.e. when calling or sending a message from Belgium to another country in Europe or the world. The new roaming regulations do not apply to international calls. They remain expensive and in many cases their cost is quite disproportionate. As far as I am concerned, the next step is to tackle this problem. This requires a European strategy. A discussion is currently taking place in the European Parliament. If Parliament makes a good proposal to deal with the problem of the cost of international calls, Belgium will fully support this Council proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u92	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answers. Indeed, the end of roaming was welcomed by many citizens and the general public. But there are still other construction sites, and you mentioned one. This first step is positive, but it should be accompanied by others not in the same direction. I think you will be keen to defend them with your European partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u93	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, among the many players in the collaborative economy, the Heetch start-up is considered to be the "social and noctambule" version of the operator Uber. Indeed, from the beginning of the evening to the dawn, this digital platform allows individuals to transport citizens, particularly but without exception, young and old, who celebrate and want to return home quickly and, above all, secure. The development of this start-up has been very successful among students, especially in the Brussels Region, who do not have sufficient funds to pay for a taxi and who complete their festive activities at times when public transport does not move or more. Without dwelling on the festive aspect of student evenings, I must point out, however, that for many parents, this is a reassuring solution to the risks associated with alcohol consumption in particular. The Heetch start-up is popular and the Belgian market contributes fully to its success. In this regard, this operator benefits from the new tax framework, referred to above, which was implemented on your initiative by the government to regularize the situation of users of digital platforms. For its part, the Brussels Region announced last April, with the voice of Minister Pascal Smet, in charge of Mobility, that this start-up did not comply with the legislation on "paid transport of persons" and should therefore cease its activities with immediate effect. At the beginning of July 2017, the Brussels authorities took action, in a repressive manner, by confiscating, via the services of Brussels Mobility, certain drivers' cars affiliated with the carpooling platform. Notwithstanding the strict respect for the competences of each level of power, the question is nevertheless raised of what may appear to be a flagrant contradiction between the federal government, which is working to regulate the collaborative economy and to place it at the heart of our competitiveness effort, and the Brussels Region, which, through its various measures, is stifling these innovative initiatives. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Is close cooperation between the different levels of power planned to prevent the ambitious framework of the collaborative economy, adopted at federal level, from being limited by conflicting or even counterproductive decisions taken at regional level? In particular with regard to the Heetch start-up, have you had the opportunity to meet with its managers and discuss possible solutions, in direct synergy with the Brussels Minister responsible for Mobility? If so, what is the status of these talks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u94	Madam President, the collaborative economy is likely to cover a wide range of services, the regulation of which, as the question illustrates, can be found in several levels of authority and areas. It would be perilous to conclude, on the basis of the case mentioned, that there is a contradiction between Belgian policies at different levels of power. The collaborative economy must be taken into account in relation to each policy on which it has an impact. The support of the collaborative economy through the specific tax framework does not constitute a blank-set to free itself from any other regulations that may be applicable, nor does it constitute a wish to do so. It is a policy that, at its level, is relevant to contributing to the deployment of the positive effects of the collaborative economy. By its relative novelty, the Commission is also likely to ask legal questions which are not yet decided. On the consultation between the different levels of power in Belgium, from January to July 2017, the European Commission organised a series of workshops on different aspects of the collaborative economy in the tourism accommodation sector. Some of these aspects are the responsibility of the federal government: consumer protection, taxation, compliance with social legislation. Other aspects, such as the operating conditions of tourist accommodation, are regional competences. In this context, the federal and the regions have been forced to cooperate closely. The SPF Economy also took the initiative to invite the Regions to the Single Market Forum on 27 March 2017 on the collaborative economy organised in partnership with the European Commission, with specific thematic workshops. Finally, on the legal front, I draw attention to a case to be decided by the Court of Justice of the European Union and to be followed up on the Uber case. This is case C435/15. In this case, Advocate General Szpunar delivered his Opinion on 11 May 2017. It concluded that a service consisting of linking potential passengers with drivers offering on-demand urban individual transport services, using mobile telephone software, in a situation where the provider of that service exercises control over the essential details of transport services carried out in that context, in particular on the price of those services, constitutes a transport service within the meaning of European law and of Directive 2006/123 on services. On the other hand, I hope that the Brussels Minister of Mobility will agree to meet with Heetch officials and find a solution with them. What is at stake for society? The overmortality of young people on weekends. In 2016, there were 640 deaths on Belgian roads and 40,000 personal injuries, or 110 personal injuries per day. For 41 per cent of victims, these are young people aged 16 to 34. In Brussels, these figures do not improve, unlike the other regions. On average, there are twice as many injuries and deaths on weekends. Furthermore, a wide range of mobility services are needed to meet these challenges, in addition to zero tolerance for young drivers. We must stop always reasoning in terms of competition and particularly unfair competition with regard to taxis. Heetch plays a complementary role to public, private or collective transport offers. We will have to benefit from the widest possible offer. Heetch is a ride-sharing that works only from 8 p.m. to 6 p.m. and focused mainly on young people. The development of this offer is the essential complement to the zero tolerance policy for drivers with less than three years of experience, a policy introduced by the federal government in December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u95	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I heard and appreciated the end of your speech when you said that you had to stop reasoning in terms of competition when it is an area of interest to the complementarity between taxis and collaborative economy platforms. This platform is aimed at a targeted audience, young people and students, during specific time zones, in a specific setting. You also mentioned the reasons why it was useful and even indispensable that this type of service could be offered. I would like to go back to something I mentioned when I spoke of a blatant contradiction, which you have nuanced in your answer. While the federal government is taking action and putting in place an attractive tax framework, I believe that the measures taken at the regional level lead to a disorder in public opinion among users and managers of these collaborative economic platforms. Indeed, it is not clear whether it is legal or not, what is at stake and the risks involved in using this type of collaborative platform. It is useful to clarify things and to move in the same direction, regardless of the level of decision-making power. It's an important element. But there's still work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u96	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, I have seen in the press your willingness to strengthen the tax framework that currently applies to users of collaborative economy platforms, by making a challenge for any overall income of less than 500 euros per month. In doing so, it would be necessary to support the integration into the real economy of all persons engaged in activities in a limited and temporary manner and thus to better combat work in the dark. At the outset, allow me to welcome the fact that the government does not prevent itself from doing even better, seeking to improve the measures already taken that promote the development of the collaborative economy. Could you confirm the information in the press and, therefore, provide us with some clarification on the measure under consideration? Do you already have an estimate of the budgetary impact of implementing this measure? What is the terms of reference for this dossier, in particular in terms of consultation, but also of timetable? Finally, can you tell us whether this challenge would be confined to users of the collaborative economy or whether it would extend to other types of activities of the so-called traditional economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u97	Mr Calomne, I have put on the table a proposal that would allow anyone who works sufficiently or who is retired to earn up to 500 euros a month, or 6,000 euros a year, without being taxed on these additional incomes and without paying social contributions. My proposal would consist of several parts. The first strand would focus on the non-market sector, which would include some services with a rather social objective. For the time being, these services lie between volunteer work and regular work. I am thinking in particular of those who stay at night with people in situations of great dependence, or sports club coaches, for example. Another aspect would be to completely exempt self-employed persons in supplementary activity, who, in any case, do not constitute rights by earning up to EUR 6 000 per year, instead of subjecting them to the current ceiling of EUR 1 471 per year. A final part would be devoted to the modification of the collaborative economy regime that I put in place last year. The idea would be to bring this aspect into line with the other two proposals. The Government is currently considering these proposals. I cannot therefore give you any more explanations on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u98	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for this information. These are indeed measures that are in the right direction. Of course, I can only encourage you to reach agreement within the government to implement them as quickly as possible. We will return to the subject later, when the project is finalized and the measures are ready to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u99	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, Estonia has, for several years now, put in place an e-Residency system that allows anyone to obtain, through the submission of a file via a platform on the Internet, a security investigation and the payment of a lump sum, digital resident status, in order to attract entrepreneurs. In concrete terms, this electronic identity card does not grant Estonian citizenship, the right of residence or the benefit of social benefits. On the other hand, it makes it possible to sign up for a clearly entrepreneurial approach: to set up an online business with a few clicks on the internet; to manage it from anywhere in the world; to open an Estonian bank account; or to have a digital signature to formalize documents and contracts. Several thousand entrepreneurs have already been successfully tempted by this scheme, and Estonia is a pioneer by relying on a measure that should support its leadership of "technology nation". Despite the important differences that can be identified between our two countries, not only in terms of regulations but also in the business tradition, the Estonian initiative deserves reflection. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you think that the "e-Residence" system can find a form of re-appropriation of our country? Is a reflection open within your services to examine the appropriateness and feasibility of such a tool? Is the government prepared to conduct a forward-looking assessment of this issue as part of its digital and economic objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u100	Mr Calomne, in fact, Estonia is a pioneer in digital public services: it was the first country to introduce the concept of the e-Residence card. It should be noted that this is not an e-ID card but rather an electronic identification card. Through a substantial registration procedure, the cardholder can do business within Estonian territory with Estonian companies and the public authorities. This card cannot be used in other European Member States. However, Estonia intends to notify the e-Residence card under the eIDAS Regulation, but it will still have to pass the peer review. Belgium is also examining the concept of the e-Residence card because we also need an identification system that we want to provide to foreigners wishing to do business as well as other administrative procedures in Belgium. In a joint effort to achieve a single European market for 2020 and given that all EU public authorities are trying to deliver more efficient online services, we do not think it appropriate to oblige an entrepreneur outside the European Union to initiate a procedure in each EU Member State so that he can identify himself with an e-Residence card. It would be much more effective to extend the scope of the Estonian e-Residence card to an identification card for visitors to the European Union. Thus, this entrepreneur will enter the European Union market and not just the market of a single Member State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u101	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. I am pleased to hear that our country is examining this possibility and supporting this initiative. But, as you said, in the interests of efficiency, in a pragmatic approach, it is useful to see how the Estonian initiative can be extended in order to have the same approach in all the countries of the European Union. In any case, your answer remains positive. This type of tool put in place by Estonia may be useful or even indispensable to other European countries, given all the technological developments and simplifications that need to be implemented for entrepreneurs and businesses in the European area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u102	Minister, in 2014, five countries signed the Digital-5 Charter (D5). These countries have thus formed a network of the most advanced nations at the digital level with a shared objective of strengthening the digital economy, collaborating on common projects and improving their digital services. These five countries are the United Kingdom, Estonia, Israel, New Zealand and South Korea. In its statement by Busan (South Korea) on 11 November 2016, the D5 expressed its willingness to open up to other countries. Minister, does Belgium comply with the nine principles of the D5 Charter? To what extent does Belgium use open source software and to what extent does it share the code used for the software of its digital services? To what extent does Belgium use free open standards that allow interoperability? To what extent does Belgium award contracts to TPEs and SMEs (in contrast to large companies and multinationals) in its digital services? What initiatives do you take, possibly with the Communities, to provide children with the opportunity to code? What measures are being taken to support citizens in their access to digital services? Are you considering joining the D5 as an effective member or as an observer? If so, within what time frame? Will you propose to the federated entities to join the D5 collectively? What cooperation exists between the federated entities to work together and to help solve the respective problems regarding digital services? What other international initiatives on digital services does Belgium participate in?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u103	Mrs Poncelet, Belgium responds well to the nine principles of the D5 Charter. Like most organizations, administrations use a mix of closed and open source software. The Digital Transformation Directorate of the Strategy and Support SPF has already published several open source projects, including the e-Middleware and OpenFed, a platform for the rapid creation of websites based on the popular CMS of Belgian origin Drupal. Like all organizations, administrations use open IT standards and specifications such as TLS, SAML, etc. In addition, the Digital Transformation Directorate-General of the Strategy and Support SPF is active in the development and promotion of open European specifications. This Directorate-General represents Belgium in an active way in the European Multi Sticker Platform on ICT Standardization. We are obliged to follow the procedures for purchasing public contracts. Nevertheless, many of our projects, websites and others, are often attributed to very small or small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, the Government's Start-up plan encourages young businesses that have recently been active in innovative sectors. At the federal level, I created the Digital skills fund, with 18 million over three years. This initiative supports projects that help young people learn to code, especially young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. The SPF Strategy and Support is a partner in the open Summer of code, a student program organized annually to promote the development of free software. In response to your question on measures to promote citizens' access to digital services, I refer you to all the actions taken under the digital agenda. Earlier this year, we made the oral request, through our contacts in Estonia and the United Kingdom, to join the D5. They both replied that, at first glance, there was no question of expanding the group, but that they would submit the question at the next meeting. Since then, I haven't heard from anyone. Participation in the D5 is by country. They make no distinction by Region. That said, for all our international interventions and actions, we take and defend the advice of all entities. In the area of cooperation, there is a Digital Single Market (DSM) Steering Committee. This committee brings together representatives of the federal state and federated entities and aims to coordinate actions within the framework of the implementation of the Digital Single Market. This committee was originally intended to implement the objectives of the Digital Agenda for the European Union at Belgian level. Its competences were then extended to the strategy for a single digital market within the European Union. I refer you to the report of the meetings of the IECG, the PICTS and the Digitalsteering. With regard to other international initiatives on digital services, Belgium is actively involved in UNCITRAL work on identity management and trust services, with the aim of valuing the experience gained in the implementation of the eIDAS Regulation and the Belgian law of 21 July 2016 on trust services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u104	Mr Minister, you say that these five countries, including Estonia, do not want to expand. However, it would appear that in November 2016, they had expressed their willingness to open up to other countries. So it's to be checked. I would also like to thank you for your answer, and I will analyse the report and eventually return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u105	Mr. President, Minister, the Open Government Partnership (OGP) or, in English, Open Government Partnership (OPG), which came into force in 2011, is a multilateral partnership to promote open government, namely, transparency of public action and openness to new forms of consultation and collaboration with civil society, including leveraging on digital and new technologies. Belgium is one of the few Member States of the European Union and one of the few developed countries not to be a member of it. However, it seems to meet the conditions for access to the OGP. So it may be a lack of will. The OGP is complementary to the ISP Directive. I am thinking, for example, of its transparency indicators and the independent reporting mechanism. Minister, why is Belgium not a member of the Open Government Partnership? Do you intend to join this grouping? If so, within what time frame? Do you confirm that Belgium meets the conditions for access to the OGP? What is the status of the 2015 Federal Open Data Plan adopted following the 2013 European PSI Directive? Finally, what are the indicators for the level of open data used by Belgium? What performance do they indicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u106	Mrs Poncelet, we meet the criteria for access to the Open Government Partnership, but we are not yet members of the Partnership. We are currently looking at the question of when we will be able to join it, knowing that this implies the mobilization of human and financial resources – which are still limited. With regard to the progress made with the Open Data strategy, I can refer you to my answer to the Parliamentary Written Question No 875 by Mr Gautier Calomne, published in Bulletin 117 of 16 May last, and to the answers to his questions to other SPFs on this subject, which are published in the same Bulletin. The Directorate-General for Digital Transformation of the SPF Strategy & Support, together with the Agency for Administrative Simplification, is the Open Data Task Force which promotes the reuse of public information and provides support to other public services which express their demand. A federal portal was created to provide an overview of the available data and to refer it to regional portals. Further information, presentations, studies and news are also available on this portal. With regard to the indicators for the open data used, we look above all at the European Commission's international benchmarking, which is available on the European Data Portal. We are awaiting the release of the 2017 report in September-October. In addition, we are also considering the Open Knowledge Foundation's Global Open Data Index, which is less extensive but where we have already made a significant improvement from 53rd place in 2014 to 22nd place in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-19-54-commissie-ic718x.u107	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. We will not fail to analyse all this, in particular the answers you have already given to Mr Calomne. We will probably have the opportunity to come back to you with other questions. Finally, I congratulate you on this rise in the rankings.
