ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u1	Minister, in December 2015, the European Commission presented two directives aimed at strengthening the guarantee of products sold on the Internet between a buyer and a seller located in two different countries. According to the texts echoed by the press, a two-year guarantee should apply throughout the European Union for cross-border online sales. Digital content should be covered by an unlimited guarantee. This policy, according to the European executive, is expected to increase the online consumption of Belgian households by €350 million. The two directives presented in December 2015 will upset the order of things in Belgium, particularly as regards the right of buyers who, for the moment, have, under Belgian law, six months to declare a defect to the seller, otherwise, today they have to prove that the defect existed before the purchase, which is obviously very complicated. With my group, we had already made a bill to increase the warranty period to two years. Minister, what is the status of the two directives of the European Commission to date? What kind of legislation do they have to go through before they can come into force? What is Belgium's position at the various European Councils on this issue? I have recently seen in the press that you have expressed the wish to change the relevant legislation in Belgium. As things stand, what are the figures for on-line consumption of Belgian households? How many complaints have been filed with the SPF Economy for warranty issues following online purchases, including cross-border purchases? In addition to the guarantee, other projects are targeted by the European Commission to harmonise national laws with a view to creating a large single digital market. What are they in practice and what could be the impact of the European Commission's future proposals for Belgium at this level? It is well known that online consumption is one of the challenges ahead and that Belgium must be able to take the train in motion before it is too late. Thank you already for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, work in the Council working group began in January 2016. Rather quickly, the Council decided to start discussions only on the proposal on contracts for the provision of digital content. Indeed, a large number of Member States are opposed to the proposal on online sales. Discussions on the digital content proposal are still ongoing. Many issues have already been raised in the working group. Before we can determine our position, there is a need for answers to these questions. And that is the intention of the Maltese Presidency. In this respect, I can confirm that in principle good consumer protection in the digital world will be defended by Belgium. As regards the other proposal on the application of the guarantee clauses after the conclusion of a distance sale, it does not seem to me to be in the interests of consumers or of undertakings to have different guarantee schemes according to the method by which the sale was concluded. It's very important, I think. The preliminary results of the REFIT evaluation of the current guarantee directive have been recently communicated by the European Commission. They confirm that none of the stakeholders is in favour of different rules depending on the sales channel, whether online or not. It therefore appears that the Commission abandons the differentiated approach based on the channel of sale of tangible goods. The Maltese Presidency intends to wait for a general approach to the digital content proposal. It had circulated a new draft text which was currently under discussion. It also intends to begin consideration of the proposal on distance sales. The discussion could begin at a time when the final results of the REFIT evaluation on guarantees are not yet known. On several occasions, I have stated that I want to strengthen the consumer's rights to guarantee consumer goods. At the same time, it seems to me appropriate to ensure the position of the retailer who is responsible for the guarantee granted to consumers. An initiative at European level would be a good thing. It would not, however, be expected. I have just launched a consultation with the Consumer Council and the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs. As far as digital content is concerned, it is not my intention to anticipate the European initiative. National legislation should not differ from the future directive. As far as the figures you are asking for are concerned, the latest survey by the Directorate-General for Statistics Belgium on e-commerce in 2015 shows the following results: 55% of the inhabitants of our country ordered goods and services via the Internet; three quarters of them made purchases from sellers established in Belgium, almost two thirds of them from sellers in other EU countries and 15% from outside the Union. From 2012 to 2015, the number of complaints concerning the guarantee for consumer goods purchased online successively amounts to 96, 141, 159 and 130. The distinction between national and cross-border problems can only be made since 2015. Of the 130 complaints registered in 2015, 37 concerned cross-border purchases. As part of the Digital Single Market Strategy, the European Commission has put forward proposals and communications that are not all within my remit, such as those relating to telecommunications or privacy. At present, it is difficult to assess their impact since they still need to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u3	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I fully agree with you that there should be no difference in consumer protection between types of sales, whether they are made online or on the spot. I'm glad to hear your position. Following the reflection to be carried out at European level, I will allow myself to go back to the great challenge of guaranteeing digital content. In the meantime, I'm going to dissect the numerical results you've given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u4	Minister, I confess that I have gathered a few questions on this subject. In June 2016, your bill containing various economic provisions was passed and finally came into force on July 16. One of the flagship measures is the expansion of the practice of mystery shopping, particularly with regard to e-commerce. The provisions extended the rights and powers of screening officers to enable them to obtain different data on the identification of potential offenders. In terms of e-commerce, the press was echoing, on 26 March, your willingness to work with other states on data exchange. Minister, do not the exchange of data reported by the press already exist? What changes does your bill involve? What forms will these new collaborations take? What types of data would be involved? What guarantees do we have that the private data of Belgian consumers will be well protected according to our standards in case of exchanges with other countries? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u5	Mrs Winckel, as I explained in my presentation of the law in this committee, mystery shopping is a technique aimed at seeing practices that are not or are very difficult to trace by conventional surveys. Where the infringements observed by mystery shopping are committed by a foreign company, for example in the case of e-commerce, the Inspectorate may request the intervention of the Member State concerned pursuant to European Regulation 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection legislation. I think, Mrs Winckel, I did not speak myself of a strengthening of the exchange of data, but the SPF has confirmed that mystery shopping would help her to communicate with counterparts in other countries and to promote the exchange of information. As regards the order to implement these new legal provisions, I had asked for the opinion of the Consumer Council, which delivered it on 3 November. A draft royal decree has been drafted. The opinion of the Finance Inspectorate was sought in this regard. As soon as I receive it, I will seek the approval of the Minister of Budget. The draft will then be submitted to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. I see the file is moving forward. My question was to draw attention to data protection and privacy. The Council of State will give an opinion on the royal decree that you have drafted and we will pay attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u7	I do not see Mrs Thoron, but if she arrives in time, her question can be answered. If not, the question will lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u8	Mr President, Minister, it has recently appeared in the press that of 197 tanning centres controlled by the Economic Inspectorate, only 12 were in compliance with the provisions of the Royal Decree of 20 June 2002 governing tanning practices. Several serious offences such as the prohibition for minors or persons with a skin type 1, the breach of the radiation standard or the observance of the minimum time between two tanning sessions have been noted. Last July, you announced in a press release that you had taken the initiative to create a new specific sub-category, a new NACE-BEL code in the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises, with a view to carrying out an inventory of all establishments with solar banks in Belgium. Each company will be obliged to register its solar bench activity under this specific code. It will therefore not only be the specialized tanning centres which are affected by the measure. All establishments that make one or more solar benches available to the public will have to identify under this new code, e.g. beauty salons, hairdressers, fitness centres, etc. On January 10, we learned in the press that a new royal decree had been published in the Moniteur belge, making it mandatory to register with Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises for the operation of a tanning centre. Minister, has there been a budget for this new measure? Through this measure, what objectives do you expect to achieve? The figures from the latest checks show that more than 90% of solar centres are in breach. Did you expect such a result? What sanctions is now faced by the owner who is not in order? In order to better protect consumers, what are you going to do to ensure that they are better informed about this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u9	Mrs Winckel, the royal decree was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 6 January. It will enter into force on 1 March next. From that date, companies operating solar banks will have to register with the Banque Carrefour des Entreprises under the new specific NACE-BEL code. Last year, 197 investigations were conducted. If we compare this figure with that of the previous year (65), we can see that I am actually committed to protecting the consumer through concrete actions. This figure is the highest since 2010. In the event of an infringement, criminal penalties range from EUR 156 to EUR 150 000. When a pro justitia is set up, there are two possibilities: a transaction sum is proposed or the file is sent directly to the public prosecutor's office. In the event that the company does not have access to the transaction proposal, the case is also transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office. As you know, the latter decides independently on the follow-up to the file. When seals have been placed, they shall be lifted only when it has been proved that the conditions imposed by the legislation are met. It can be inferred from the analysis of previous years' figures that the situation has not yet improved in a structural way. Only 12 companies were completely in order. However, the survey method introduced by the Economic Inspectorate facilitates more oriented surveys. This is why the Economic Inspectorate's efforts to better control this sector will continue in 2017 at a pace similar to that of last year. The royal decree, which will soon enter into force, will help to better identify the companies operating solar banks. It will assist inspection services in organizing monitoring more effectively. The FPS Economy website already provides information and advice on the subject. When the new Order enters into force, an information campaign for consumers will be organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u10	Minister, thank you for your response and for the work that has been done on the monitoring of tanning centres. The Economic Inspectorate, on the other hand, has done valuable work. Given the numbers, while tanning centres were inspected, it is important to ask what about beauty institutes, fitness centres and others. Having introduced this new code is an opportune choice. It will really help to monitor all the centres that offer UV sessions. This measure protects the consumer while enabling the fight against skin cancer, etc. It is important to inform the consumer about the monitoring period of the centres and about the type of evaluation that emerges. The more transparent we are in the matter, the better!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u11	Mrs Temmerman is not present and therefore her question No. 13596.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u12	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, in learning about the Minister of Defence's strategic vision, chapter after chapter, I have asked myself a whole series of questions related to your skills. This is the case in the field of industrial policy and research and development, as reflected in the "principles 7 and 8" of this note. I have already asked you several times on this subject, but I have not received a real answer. I would like to go back to the subject because, in my view, the stakes are enormous for our industrial, scientific and more broadly economic fabric. But curiously, the "Principle 8" does not mention the Regions: "To do this, the SPF Economy, in cooperation with the Defence, will set the implementing measures for maximum economic return for military purchases." So we are talking about the FPS Economy in collaboration with Defence, not to mention the Regions. As regards the drafting of the document setting out national interests, the DIRS, it seems impossible for its drafting to be entrusted exclusively to the SPF Economy and Defence, without taking into account the research and development priorities of the Regions and Communities which are linked to those of Defence. Similarly, I am surprised to see that for "principle 7", very little reference is made to the research centres of the federated entities. Wallonia, for example, has several competitiveness clusters, including Skywin, which bring universities, research centres and businesses together and can position themselves as key partners in this strategy. Given that this vision includes many investment and research projects and from the perspective of future military programming legislation, I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What will be the next steps in the practical implementation of the "Principles 7 and 8" of the strategic vision, in particular in the drafting of the military programming law and in the transposition of Article 346 TFEU? Is there any agreement with the Minister of Defence? Will the federated entities be fully involved in this work when, it seems, they have not been fully involved in the drafting of the strategic vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, the Defence has drawn up a list of essential Belgian security interests. This list was approved by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2016 and will be incorporated into the various procurement procedures in which it is estimated to be applicable and where reference is made to Article 346. On the basis of the essential Belgian security interests, it is possible to indicate which essential support techniques (Key Enabling Technologies Defence and security applications) are to be made available to the Defence. Since it is desirable for our country to develop a Defence, Industry and Research Strategy (DIRS), and since industry policy is a regionalized subject, it seems to me obvious that once the essential security interests are set by the federal government, which is competent, it will be discussed with the regional authorities if, or to what extent, they want to develop a DIRS and how the federal level can then support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm a little disappointed because it's not very concrete. Why have we not already worked with the federated entities, particularly in the drafting of this strategic vision? I know that at present no contact has been made with the Walloon Region, in particular. I really regret it because there is real know-how there. This is an issue for the future. I think that we should not be too late, and that it should be, more than just information, a genuine consultation. It is important to open dialogue with federated entities. I will allow myself to return to this subject. These are important issues for the Belgian economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u15	Ma'am, I wrote down your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I am asking you again about the fight against over-indebtedness. It was on the 15th of June that we had a first exchange on the subject. According to the Observatoire du Crédit et l'Indebtement, one of the Walloon actors in prevention, the number of Belgian households in financial difficulty is far from decreasing despite the preventive measures put in place. You probably need to have the latest figures for 2016. Indeed, in 2015, according to data from the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers de la Banque Nationale, 364,685 borrowers (3.8% of the population) were in over-indebted compared to 350,000 in 2014, indicating an increase. Are the 2016 figures in your possession, Mr. Peeters? In more than one third of cases, difficulties are caused by a life accident, such as separation or loss of a job. Everyone can be concerned and financial education is therefore of paramount importance. I would like to add in this connection that, in my commune, thanks to the policy of the big cities, we have initiated a project: a budget guidance service which is continuing today. In your last answer, you were talking about regionalization. In this context, the Brussels-Capital Region continues to finance part of this project, which is very positive of course, since the financial education of our citizens is a key issue. When I asked you a few months ago about this, you said: "The fight against over-indebtedness is one of my priorities. Preparatory work for the implementation of this item of the Government Agreement has begun. There is already a comprehensive legal framework in accordance with the Code of Economic Law. We should focus on its proper application and the recording of credit debt data within the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers (CCP). I am also working with all stakeholders on an action plan." Minister, what is the status of this national action plan to combat over-indebtedness? What is the status of the review of the plan with the various partners concerned with a view to the implementation of these recommendations? Has a clear timetable been set for its evaluation? What sanctions are possible if the recommendations are not followed? Finally, what dialogue is in place between the various federal public services, federated entities and local authorities in order to provide specific solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u17	Mr Clarinval is not here. Consequently, his combined question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u18	Mr Kir, many questions have been asked. I have an answer in both languages. In conclusion of a symposium organized by the SPF Economy on ways to improve the current framework on consumer over-indebtedness, the guidelines for an action plan to combat over-indebtedness were presented. The action plan was drawn up after consultation with the following stakeholders: Febelfin, the platforms for debt mediation, Test-Achats, the FPS Economy and the National Bank of Belgium. My plan includes two components, one preventive and the other relating to the Centrale des appropriations aux particuliers. The preventive component focuses on a stricter application of the current legal framework. The latter pursues the right balance between market interests and the social concern to prevent over-indebtedness. The implementation of this framework can be improved. First and foremost, the responsible granting of a credit is examined. The legislation already provides that the creditor must actively assess the financial situation of the consumer and offer the most appropriate credit agreement. The creditor shall collect all information necessary for that purpose. For amounts above EUR 500, a form shall be used which takes the form of a questionnaire. Unfortunately, some creditors do not comply with these obligations. In 2012, a general investigation was launched by the Economic Inspectorate into careless lending in retail lending. Four creditors received a pro-justitia due to insufficient control of consumer reimbursement capacity. In addition, any individual complaint relating to payment problems will be examined, the credit allocation will be examined and the consumer concerned will be further informed, which may allow him to invoke a civil sanction against the creditor. My action plan foresees that the Economic Inspectorate will target its controls. These initiatives must lead to a change of mentality among some lenders. I also want to provide additional tools to the credit sector to ensure that legal obligations are met. The Economic Inspectorate will draw up guidelines in which it will clarify its policy on consumer solvency. The second part of my plan is aimed at optimising the Central Bank for loans to private individuals. The crucial role of the plant in combating over-indebtedness has never been questioned. This year, the National Bank conducted a survey of various parties involved in the operation of the power plant. On the basis of the answers given, we will examine how the plant can be made even more performant. To this end, the relevant royal decree will be amended. I can give you examples: the addition of information that clarifies the nature of the debt; the increase in the threshold from EUR 25 to EUR 50; making the central more dynamic by indicating the amount of outstanding debt on an annual basis and a signaling function for the inspection of a number of risk factors, in order to allow the inspection to carry out more targeted controls. As far as the timetable is concerned, I can confirm that, in the coming months, I hope to take a royal decree on the adaptation of the Centrale des crédits to individuals. In this regard, consultation with the National Bank and the banking sector is under way. In this context, a factor is important to consider. This is the time allowed to the National Bank to make all necessary computer adjustments. Finally, it is not excluded that legal adjustments are also necessary. For the guidelines, the administration has been instructed to do so in the coming months. There will also be intense consultations with stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u19	Minister, thank you for your full answers. You're telling us that the plan is due in a few months. You have been specific about the work done in relation to the consumer, with the checks that are done. I also appreciate the work done in relation to creditors. If I understand correctly, you are announcing that you are going to draft the guidelines with the Economic Inspectorate to define a stricter framework, with more controls. You hope that these controls will change attitudes and better respect the rules. Strengthening the rules, more controls, it's very positive. A reform of the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers is planned within a few months, i.e. an adaptation of the latter after investigation with the National Bank but also after consultation with the banking sector. We now know the main lines of your action. I will come back to you on the follow-up to this action plan to combat over-indebtedness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, at the beginning of May the European Parliament adopted, by a large majority, a new resolution calling on the European Commission to speed up the revision of the regulation on consumer information to make it compulsory to mention the origin of meat and milk used as ingredients in prepared dishes. Three years after the food and health scandal of "lasagnes on horseback", the European Commission finally decided to validate, at the beginning of July 2016, an experimental project proposed by France. It provides for the labelling of the origin of the meat but also of dairy products in prepared dishes. The approval of Brussels obtained, the Minister of Agriculture, Stéphane Le Foll, immediately referred the draft decree to the Council of State, which had two months to deliver its opinion. At the end of July, he gave his green light. If approved, the scheme could enter into force on 1 January 2017 for a period of 2 years. Minister, what is your position and that of the government on the problem of traceability of processed products? What do you think of the project proposed by France? Do you have more details about what he's planning? Why did Belgium not use the example of France to launch its pilot project? Following the approval of the Council of State, the effective date was set for January 1, 2017. What is the situation and what will be the possible outcomes after this two-year period?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the traceability of processed food products is already well covered by European rules which guarantee a high level of food safety for the consumer. However, a risk of fraud is never excluded and it is not the French experimental project on mandatory origin labelling for milk and meat used as ingredients that will change this risk. The Decree provides for the indication of the country of birth, the country of rearing and the country of slaughter for certain categories of meat used as ingredients in processed foodstuffs and the indication of the country of collection, the country of packing or the country of processing for milk used as an ingredient in certain dairy products. By way of derogation from the rules mentioned above, the words "origin" followed by the country name are sufficient where the three respective entries include the same country. Products lawfully manufactured or marketed in another Member State of the European Union are not subject to the provisions of the Decree. Belgium is opposed, like several other Member States, to this French initiative because it fears disruptions on the internal market if each Member State introduces its own national legislation to regulate the indication of origin. This proposal has been confirmed by my colleague, Mr Borsus, who represents Belgium in the Agriculture Council. The competitive position of the Belgian food industry, which is heavily export-oriented, could be negatively affected by these national measures. In practice, French distributors would already require suppliers established in other Member States to label their products as provided for in the French Decree. Moreover, the administrative exchange linked to the labelling of origin is far from negligible for both operators and control bodies. Decree No. 1137 of 2016 was already published in the French Official Journal on 21 August 2016 and entered into force on 1 January 2017. Implementing rules still need to be defined such as the minimum quantity of milk or meat in prepackaged foodstuffs and below which the indication of origin will not be mandatory. The results of this experiment cannot be prejudged at the end of the two-year period. The French Ministers responsible for Consumption and Agriculture will draw up a report which they will forward to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is a pity that Belgium is opposed to more precise labelling especially when it comes to processed products. As a reminder, at the end of 2013, there was a large-scale DNA testing operation which revealed that more than 5% of the controlled beef was not controlled and that in some countries, such as France, the figure was even 15%. So I think it may be important to have better labelling. Where I fully agree with you and where I join you, it is not because it is well labelled that for that, we are sure and there will be no fraud. Similarly, in order to combat this fraud, it is important to have more controls. I think it is essential to have these two elements in order to protect the consumer as best as possible. We must therefore not only listen to the agri-food industry. As the figures are more favourable to Belgium, I think this could be something positive on the European market in particular. I also think that it could be a support to our farmers and producers if we could have a better traceability of what is proposed in these processed foods. I really advocate that consumer protection should be at the centre of all our concerns. As I understand you are totally opposed to it, we will wait for the results of this pilot project that is being launched. I think, however, that we must wake up and stop this junk food. Everything that happened is unacceptable, especially with these lasagnas that included horse. We must be able to fight against this. I hope that you will change your mind and you will really be asked about this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u23	Mr Borsus is responsible for this, but I have noted your point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 14417 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my question is somewhat dated. An article published in the press denounces the double game of some operators of the market for the promotion and sale of tickets of shows - Live Nation, Ticketmaster, Seatwave -, which are in fact three subsidiaries of the same entity. We have been denouncing for years the cynicism of a double-faced environment that, by day, is erupting from a black market that is mining the sector and, at night, provides all the necessary tools for this black market on the Internet, when it does not participate directly. Their philosophy being that "if there is money to make, why bother?" You know that yesterday the U2 concert at the King Baudouin Stadium was launched. In ten minutes, the seats were all sold. I congratulate U2, on which I have nothing, on the contrary. Also immediately, within ten minutes, seats were offered for sale on eBay double, triple or quadruple price; therefore totally illegal, but also on the Seatwave site that belongs to Live Nation. I don't think our law is too lax, as the press claims. When Mr Schiltz and I drafted it and it was voted on, we made sure that it also applied to resale on websites hosted abroad, as is the case with Seatwave. The analysis of the Chamber's legal services confirmed this at the time. It relied on several judgments of the European Court of Justice. The interpretation made on the SPF Économie website is therefore incorrect and unfounded, as evidenced by the French case law and the convictions of Viagogo, a site specializing in ticket resale and based in England. France was therefore able to have England condemned. This shows that foreign people and sites can be condemned. Minister, it is high time to correct the situation and to encourage the aggrieved to file a complaint against unscrupulous resellers. Similarly, the Economy FPS should be proactive and systematically contact the resale sites hosting these resellers in order to require compliance with the law. Yes, Belgian law also applies to sites established abroad. It is in fact a question of shows presented in our territory, so that, whatever the tourist attraction of the programming of our theatres, it is indisputable that the public targeted by the advertisements of sites such as Seatwave or Viagogo that ensure its publication is, for the most part, made up of Belgian Internet users. In other words, even if these sites are based in other countries, they target our compatriots interested in concerts. Finally, Article 7 of the Law of 30 July 2013 on the resale of access to events documents provides for regular consultation and an evaluation report every two years. So, what is the status of your consultation with the relevant stakeholders? Are you going to table this report in the House in the near future? I urge you, moreover, to issue injunctions to the SPF Economy reminding it that it is time to pursue the sites hosted abroad. You can do it. Moreover, the law authorizes you to do so because it has been well designed, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u26	Mrs Lalieux, the administration has sent me a draft evaluation report. I asked him to update the data, so the figures cover the whole of 2016. It will shortly be communicated to the House, as provided by law. I hope that at this point we will have an opportunity to discuss the substance. I undertake to submit the evaluation report by mid-February at the latest. Furthermore, it confirms that the foreign supervisory authorities do not grant their assistance in order to enforce Belgian legislation on the resale of tickets. Indeed, the latter is allowed in almost all countries. On the other hand, in the case of misleading commercial practices or where there is a lack of transparency in terms of price indication, these bodies are prepared to act. I called yesterday in Switzerland following the problem you highlighted with Viagogo. I hope that we will be able to hold a meeting in Davos with the Secretary of State responsible so that we can react quickly. In the meantime, I am exhausting all the means at my disposal to enforce Belgian law prohibiting the resale of tickets. Thus, I agreed to the introduction of two injunctions with the president of the commercial court. The result of these procedures will be of great importance to the other files. In the report, it is also suggested that solutions be sought to optimize the organization of ticket sales and thus limit the number of regulatory infringements. In the course of March, an initial reseller will illustrate the possibilities offered by blockchain technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. International collaboration is good, but you do not need permission from another country to pursue a site that is hosted abroad. As the European Court of Justice says very well, France was able to have a site hosted in Great Britain condemned and this was not done with the approval of the Minister of Justice. Read the note written by our departments, the case law of the European Court of Justice and the decision obtained by France on the basis of a similar law and you will see that you and the judiciary have full authority over this issue since it is a concert organised in Belgium. Then, when you talk about resellers, you actually have to push people to file a complaint. Information campaigns must therefore be carried out because this trade is already present on eBay and elsewhere. The dealers are them. This is a group of friends who buy 20 tickets and who know they will not use the 20 seats and who sell them more expensive by making huge gains on websites, including a site managed by the concert promoter. We all know who is at the head of Live Nation, we know that this person is politicized and that is no problem for me. We know that many Dutch-speaking leaders know him and I also know him for working with him for ten years. I think it's time to get this platform together at some point and punch it on the table because they're organizing the black market themselves. This is totally unacceptable, Minister! They themselves organize the black market of the concert squares they manage. I think they're already making enough money to organize the black market. This is unacceptable! It's time you called that person or all the actors, not to target one, but that person is well involved and I think he's the only one. There are good practices in this sector. The Ancienne Belgique applies good practices. It has its resale site that practices expensive prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u28	Thank you, Mrs Lalieux. Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, Mrs Lalieux can put her question No. 15438 now. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 14734 will be converted into a written question. So, Mr Degroote, you should not wait any longer if we do so now. If Mrs Lalieux wishes to stick to the two-minute speaking time for the question and one minute for the reply, we are moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u29	Mr President, Minister, Test-Achats has provided alarming information from European and American consumer associations on certain connected toys. Indeed, it seems that they are likely to turn into "spions" into grass, remotely controllable by a simple mobile phone. Test-Achats questioned the FPS Economy and the Privacy Commission on this issue. The fears of privacy advocates include two toys: "My friend Cayla" and "i-Que", which require the use of an app on the phone or tablet to work. They're made in Hong Kong. Children have the opportunity to ask simple questions to the dolls that answer them. All conversations are encrypted on a third-party server. A study by the independent Norwegian consumer protection agency indicated that it is very easy for anyone to connect to the doll. So, if you're close to the doll and it's on, it's easy for a stranger to connect and talk through the doll and listen to what people say through this connection. This problem seems to have been reported to the manufacturer for two years, but the manufacturer has not yet responded. Yet it would be easy to secure these toys. Another particularly alarming point is the use of "children's secrets" by the societies concerned. Indeed, they are shared with the American company Nuance Communications, specialized in voice recognition. This company reserves the right to share all information with third parties and to use it for all kinds of purposes - with all the drifts that this may entail. Minister, do you have any information on this? What actions have been taken to put an end to their sale? There is an urgent need not to allow the sale of such toys in our territory until the necessary changes are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u30	Mrs Lalieux, the Internet of Things is evolving. It is important that every effort be made to effectively protect privacy and consumers from possible misuse of pre-purchase information, at the time of connection and during use of these toys. The general rules laid down at European level for the protection of privacy and consumer protection must, of course, be respected. With regard to the application of economic regulation, the Economic Inspectorate has taken four initiatives. It monitored the websites in order to verify the sales channels of the toys in question. It turns out that the products are no longer offered for sale in Belgium by professional sellers. It is not excluded, however, that individuals who have bought these toys may not sell them through advertisements published on electronic platforms established in Belgium or abroad. It conducts an informational field survey of companies that offered to sell toys at a given time to verify the reality of voluntary withdrawal. She interviewed her counterparts as part of her participation in the international collaborative network on consumer protection. It consults with the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, which itself participates in the European network specific to privacy aspects, in which, in 2014, an opinion was drawn up on recent developments on the Internet of Things in general, containing recommendations in particular with regard to manufacturers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u31	Mr President, I thank the Minister. I think the FPS Economy took full measure of the problem and was then proactive in this area. I'll be back for the results of the entire investigation. It is still a matter of concern that children or families can be monitored remotely. This is a strong drift from these toys.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Lalieux. You stayed well within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u33	Deputy Prime Minister, according to a study carried out at the request of the ASBL Car-Pass, the damage to mileage fraud, when used vehicles are sold, is estimated at more than EUR 5.6 million per year at European level. In our country, this counter fraud also exists, and in particular, it seems, in our dealings with our Dutch neighbours. For cars imported into Belgium from the Netherlands, the fraud rate would reach almost 20 % of the total of declared kilometres and 15 % of vehicles would have a counterfeit meter. From Belgium to the Netherlands, the fraud rate would slightly exceed 5%. However, in order to combat this phenomenon, under your leadership and that of your colleague in charge of mobility, an agreement has just been signed between Belgium and the Netherlands. Our two countries now exchange their data so that the history of the 45,000 vehicles changing each year as owners is perfectly traceable. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I can only welcome this agreement, which enables us to fight fraud and thus better protect consumers. Nevertheless, it would probably be appropriate to continue these steps and to conclude new agreements with our neighbours, but also to establish a European control system. I come to my questions. Do you have figures on the rate of counter fraud in our exchanges with our other European neighbours, in particular French, German and Luxembourg? Today, many of our compatriots will even buy vehicles to Spain and Portugal. Do you have data that are broader in relation to these situations? If so, would you like to give us an outline? Is the conclusion of agreements comparable to the one sealed with the Netherlands under consideration? If so, what is the deadline and how? Do you consider it appropriate to take initiatives to bring this matter to the European level in order to achieve a common system between all Member States? If that is the case, I would have liked to know how.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u34	Mr President, Mr Calomne, we do not have figures on kilometric frauds involving used cars imported from other countries and other Member States. All I can say is that the various signals in this area indicate that this is a large number of cars that are being smuggled. For bilateral agreements to be concluded with other Member States, the sine qua non is that they have a comparable system. Outside the Netherlands, the neighbouring countries do not have them. A European approach would therefore be quite appropriate. The problem is certainly well known by the Commission. Unfortunately, it does not at present seem to be willing to do so on its own initiative. As you know, recently, kilometric data has been exchanged with the Netherlands. As soon as I have the figures for the exchange of these data for a significant period, I will forward them to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u35	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer and for the information you have given us. They confirm that harmonisation at European level is essential because the trend is relatively high at the level of these frauds. I can only encourage you, together with your European colleagues, to try to find a solution in support of what will be put on the table by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 14734 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the electric bike is in full swing, not only the classic electric bike, which provides pedal support, but also the so-called speed pedelec, which provides pedal support up to 45 km per hour. Since 1 October 2016, the speed pedelecs have been subject to a new royal decree, creating a legal framework for these and other electric bicycles. According to FPS Mobility information, ordinary electric bicycles, motorised bicycles and speed pedelecs should only be insured when the engine can operate autonomously, i.e. without pedalling. However, the competence in this area lies, of course, with the FPS Economy. In the communication of the FOD it was made very clear that there is no insurance obligation for the speed pedelecs. However, there appears to be some confusion in this regard. I know sellers of such bicycles and insurance sellers, who continue to claim at high and low levels that the so-called speed pedelecs require insurance. The debate is held on the issue of autonomous driving. Most electric bicycles have a so-called garage button. This is a button with which the bikes can drive autonomously up to a speed of about 6 km per hour, which is used to drive the relatively heavy bike on hand, for example on a slope or in a trap gutter. It is because of that button that the confusion seems to arise as to whether or not there is an insurance obligation. That is why it would be a good idea for you to clarify this explicitly. I know a bill is coming. Nevertheless, it would be a good idea to eliminate the confusion in this respect. Minister, how do you view the interpretation of the autonomous driving of the so-called speed pedals and other electric bicycles? What steps will you take in your capacity as Minister to clarify this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u38	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me not to waste too much time asking my question from the chair. I have a similar question. I also received signals from the sector that many consumers are not fully aware of the situation. That even applies to traders. In the insurance sector, several brokers themselves are starting to draw up schedules of how to be insured. Right now, it's really confusing, and more specifically with regard to that garage button. If a bike can drive autonomously, it has to be insured, so to speak. Of course, that button does not serve to drive autonomously, but such bikes weigh seriously a lot. By the way, it's not handy when some escalator goes down, to have to go somewhere with such a bicycle. In that case, that button helps, for example, to leave basements or garages. The question is: what about the legislation in this area? Is a BA insurance required? Are all possible devices such as monowheels, segways, hoverboards etc. included in current legislation? What's the status? Are there any problems? If so, how will we resolve it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u39	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, motor vehicles are defined in the WAM Act, as you know, as vehicles intended to move on the ground and which can be driven by a mechanical force. The expression "mechanical power supply" refers both to the energy produced by an engine and to the energy obtained by another mechanical means. Muscle strength, for the sake of clarity, is not defined. The definition does not therefore cover only motor vehicles or lorries, but all vehicles as soon as they move independently. A draft law amending this WAM law will be submitted to Parliament in the next few weeks. The King will also be given the power to change the scope of motor vehicles, where this may be necessary in the light of the new motor vehicles which are developing. I am aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the garage button for electronic bicycles can cause problems, taking into account the definition mentioned above. In the narrow interpretation of this definition, which is to be able to drive autonomously, it can be said that this button ensures that the electronic bike is a motor vehicle, even if it has to be kicked in normal conditions. However, the function of this button is not to fire the cyclist from the stairs, as Mr Klaps said, but only to help him when he walks up a slope by bicycle, for example, or walks through a pedestrian tunnel. In these cases it is difficult to get up with an electric bicycle without a garage button in one piece. It is therefore not logical that these bicycles should fall into the category of motor vehicles only because of this option and that their users should therefore take insurance for motor vehicles and lose their capacity as a weak road user. I will draw up an implementation plan for this after the adoption of the WAM law in Parliament, stating that the garage button will not lead to the category of motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I believe that this clarity can only benefit the sector and can only encourage the use of the bicycle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u41	I fully share Mr Van den Bergh's view. I welcome your clear answer, Minister. They were waiting for the new WAM law and the new KB. This can already be communicated to the sector, so that there is no major concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Smaers' 14766 lapses as she is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u43	Mr. Secretary, I would like to talk to you about the test bench for firearms in Liège. I have asked a number of questions about this in the past. That test bench is an institution that goes back very far in time, to the ancien régime and to the period of the Liège prince-bishop, as we learned in what was then called patriotic history. On May 24, 1888, a special law was passed that gave a special statute to the test bench. It was not a public institution, not a classical private body, but a legal entity sui generis. Everyone will agree that such a statute is no longer today. It excels by lack of clarity and transparency. That is why I have already asked a number of questions about this in the past as a result of the drafting of a draft law to amend the statute and operation of the test bench. The most recent answer dates back almost two years ago, namely from 9 March 2015. I quote: 'My administration is finalising a preliminary draft law to amend the law of 1888.' The text had yet to be finalized. Mr President, what progress has been made with the finalisation of the preliminary draft amending the 1888 law? In the past it has been regularly said that there would be a kind of antenna or pick-up point in Flanders for the benefit of the Flemish arms dealers and sportsmen, so that they should not make that far-off move. Then Ghent was designated as a possible place to go for a Flemish pick-up point. How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u44	Mr Degroote, sometimes people think there are, but then there are still unexpected obstacles. Unfortunately, we were also confronted with this in the dossier in question. You rightly refer to a question that you asked me in 2015. My administration was working on a technical proposal at the time, but the dossier turned out to be far more complex than was estimated. I refer, among other things, to the fact that the institution performs both public safety tasks and technical laboratory tasks on behalf of industry. In addition, there was an incident in 2016. You already referred to that. I am currently consulting with the Minister of Justice on the dossier relating to the incident and on the revision of the legislation. The Minister of Justice is responsible for the aspects of public security and for the adaptation of arms legislation. I am responsible for the organisation of the institution and the organisation of the test procedures for weapons. We were very optimistic, perhaps a little too optimistic, when we put the finishing touches to it. There's something more to it than that. That does not alter the fact that we continue to take that up. Further consultations will take place next week with the Minister of Justice. The current legislation, including the Law of 24 May 1888 on the operation of the pilot bank in Liège, provides for public supervision of the operation of the test bank in Liège. The legislation is outdated and needs to be revised. The recent events also mean that we must consider whether this monitoring can be carried out more efficiently. I also assume that you are referring to the European Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2403 laying down common guidelines on standards and techniques to ensure that deactivated firearms are permanently unusable. Contrary to what you are saying, but perhaps I have not read your question correctly; indeed, that regulation allows the inspection formalities and operations to be carried out by the same institute, provided that the tasks and the persons within that entity they carry out are clearly separate. Existing procedures are now being reviewed to assess whether they effectively meet the new requirements. Finally, there are no concrete plans at present to set up a separate section of the test bench in Ghent. The possibility is being examined to establish an antenna in the north of the country where weapons could be introduced. The weapons would then be transported to the laboratory in Liège to be tested. Then they return to the antenna. That is the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and certainly for your efforts, together with the Minister of Justice. I have no doubt that certain efforts are being made. However, my conclusion is that we have not made any progress in the last two years. You're admitting that yourself. Maybe it's technically more complicated than it looks. There's more to it than that. I was not talking about the European regulation, but about the adaptation of the statute. As has already been said, the sui generis statute is no longer today and discriminates against all companies which do not have such status. The pilot bank thus escapes many of the obligations that normal companies do have, such as the publication of the annual accounts and turnover. Moreover, the test bench is not subject to corporation tax, but only to the VAT return and those declarations raise quite a few questions. In order to ensure fair and equal treatment of both the test bench and all Flemish and Walloon companies, we urgently need a sound, transparent statute for the test bench. Moreover, some employees are in favour of this, and it will result in more tax justice, which will help to ensure that companies that fulfil their obligations do not feel uncomfortable. I am sure that you will help and thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux refers to the Commission on Infrastructure. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 14902 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u47	Minister, at the end of October last year, you announced your intention to eliminate the waiting period for balances. During this time, advertisements for the discounts offered are illegal, so consumers often find themselves unable to determine whether a product or service will be cheaper during sales. This legal provision was intended to protect small traders, who cannot compete with large brands in terms of marketing campaigns. However, it would appear that this legislation contravenes existing European rules, both in terms of consumer protection and commercial practices. In addition, the Government is in the process of analysing the Balances Act. For his part, your colleague in charge of the Independents and Middle Classes has launched a survey on this subject among traders and the public. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm your willingness to remove the waiting period of the balances? If so, what exactly would the scope of your reform cover? What contacts have you already established with representatives of the trade sector in this regard? Finally, what is the agenda for changing the legal framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u48	Mr President, Mr Calomne, I shall be very brief. I believe that both legal and economic arguments can justify the deletion of the waiting period. In this context, my firm has had contacts with UCM, UNIZE, Comeos and Test-Achats. Currently, the opinion of the Consumer Council and the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs has been requested by the Minister of the Middle Classes. These opinions are expected in the coming month. If decided, a repeal of the pre-balance rules could come into force for the next period of balances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 14929 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 14955 lapses. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut converted 15011 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Detiège's 15044 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u51	Mr Minister, in 2013, the Insurance Ombudsman published a case in which a customer could not leave her balance insurance with her initial insurer after having her mortgage loan refinanced from another financial institution. The customer wanted to keep her old debt balance for her new home credit because of her meanwhile formed health file. The insurance company refused to do so and then cancelled the existing debt balance on the date on which the loan was repaid early. The policyholder opposed this under Article 178 of the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014, which grants the right to repurchase and the right of reduction only to the policyholder and not to the creditor. However, the Ombudsman has said that the insurance company is right, as the general terms and conditions of the contract state that the contract automatically ends when the loan is repaid. We recently received a similar complaint. Again, the insurer rejects Article 178 of the Insurance Act on the basis of the general terms and conditions in the contract. The insurer bases itself on Article 1134 of the Civil Code, which provides that contracts which have been legally entered into shall be governed by the law of the parties. There is a clear contradiction between the two positions. In order to clarify matters, I have a few questions. How does the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance relate to the Civil Code? Can an insurer terminate debt balance insurance in case of an early repayment of a credit, if so stated in the general terms and conditions? Is there a difference if the refinancing is done at the same bank or at another bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by reminding everyone, especially for the lawyers, of the following:lex specialis derogat legi generali. In the present case, the articles of the Civil Code are the general rule and the articles of the Law of 4 April 2014 as the special rule. Under this general principle of law, special legislative provisions should take precedence over general provisions. However, where the special law does not provide for any provision of the general law, it is necessary to revert to the provision of the general law. I'm not telling you anything new. Mr President, the question is too general to give a concrete answer. However, if you have a specific situation in mind, I would like to look at them more closely. It can generally be said that debt balance insurance is usually linked to a specific credit. The terms of the balance-of-payments insurance are therefore usually referred to in the relevant credit. This means that, when the credit goes down, the insurance contract is without object. The insurance contract is therefore terminated. That termination principle is usually included in the general terms and conditions of the policy. The insurer may re-insure the new credit used to repay early, albeit under the conditions adapted to the new credit agreement, such as a modified capital, a modified maturity or repayment scheme. A new or adapted policy must therefore be drawn up, allowing the insurer to take account of new circumstances, such as the health status of the insured person. Whoever provides the refinancing loan does not in itself play a role. However, if the insurance company belongs to the same banking group, a commercial gesture is not excluded. Once again, if you have a specific dossier or further elements, we would not only like to take note of it, but also examine it further and give a more concrete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u53	Minister, I will try to be even clearer in a follow-up question. It is a problem that we have seen in recent years with the massive refinancing of loans. Very often this happened to our own financial institution, which caused this problem to arise very little or no. The debt balance insurance will not be automatically discontinued, which, in my view, indicates that there is no automaticity. It is not the case that the policy is terminated first and the cancellation is subsequently revoked for commercial reasons. He just doesn't get canceled. I don't think there's any automatism. However, if the refinancing is done with another institution, I do not see very well the basis on which the insurance company terminates the policy. Just so we're clear, not every insurance company does. There are also insurance companies that say that someone did refinance the mortgage, but never sent a letter of termination for the balance of debt insurance, and so that premium still has to be paid. It's from two cases one. Any regulation can be justified if it is legally correct, but we need to clarify it. It's incomprehensible to a lot of people now. De facto, this position of insurance companies prevents a number of people from re-financing their mortgage because their debt balance insurance is no longer affordable or even insurable because of their changed medical condition. In favour of the consumer, I would ask you to take a look at this. I will be happy to provide you with a number of practical cases in order to outline these problems more clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u54	Mr President, please give us the general terms and conditions, because I believe that there may be a difference between the different companies. We are very happy to look at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament 15114) by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and others, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Gautier Calomne (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Debates of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u56	Minister, as a result of price agreements between different supermarkets, which came to light in 2015, I pointed out to you in plenary that we, as a party, are in favour of extending the law on class actions or group claims. They reduce costs for consumers, but also for traders and SMEs, in order to claim damages before the courts if they have all suffered damage caused by the same cause of injury. They work at a lower threshold for access to justice and thus offer better possibilities for enforcing rights. The system is not only of a compensating and repressive nature, but it is also educational in nature. After all, it makes it possible to think more quickly as a legal subject when breaking the law. It is well known that the cost of recovering damage to the injured person is limited. In this sense, it is also a system that ensures more social self-control. I read in your policy paper that a draft evaluation report was expected by the end of last year. This would indicate whether or not an extension of the class actions is appropriate and what shortcomings there are. Minister, I am pleased that you would like to examine that possibility. Is there a positive report on extending the application of class actions to self-employed and SMEs? If so, what steps will you take to implement that plan? Do you have a timing in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u57	Mr President, Mr Gantois, eight days ago I received the evaluation report prepared by the services of the FPS Economy. On the basis of an initial reading, I remember that there is no clear answer to the question of extending the scope of application, as well as the procedure, partly because of the fact that only a few cases have been brought and that it is too early to draw up an initial evaluation on the basis of these dossiers. However, on the specific question of whether the legislation on the claim for collective recovery should be extended to the b2b sphere, the response of the respondents varies. The possibility of extending the collective claim to the b2b sphere will be included in my initiative to protect the b2b relationship. I'll ask you to provide the evaluation report so you can check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Eight days is indeed a short period of time to have a full view. I do understand, however, that opinions are divided. You know, however, that we insist that the law on group claims should be more effective and more accessible. There is a need for a more efficient procedure which will ultimately make it easier for consumers, the middle-class and the entrepreneur to get redress. And we are not alone in this, because the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs also advocates an extension of the existing system, rightly assuming that self-employed and SMEs are in a weaker position vis-à-vis large companies. You know this is my stick horse. I have noticed that your colleague, Minister Borsus, is also looking for a solution to this problem. I trust you will reach them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u59	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, you have drawn up a list of institutions, more or less fraudulent, which constitute false universities. There were 41 organizations, some of which would even have gables on the street. Some deliver false diplomas or sell courses which are not recognised by our Communities, all without specifying it. In order for an educational centre to use the term "university" or "high school", it must have been recognised by the competent Community. Often, these institutions are present on the Internet. Some are said to have ceased their activities but maintain an active website. Deputy Prime Minister, is this list searchable? Is it exhaustive? It appears that no sanctions have yet been imposed against such institutions. Are you planning on doing this? How can we ensure optimal control at a time when online courses and Internet training flourish? Finally, are dangerous organisms, such as sects, hiding behind establishments included in this list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Friart, the list of 41 establishments to which you refer is a list of organisations which represent a risk of non-compliance with the legal rules on unfair commercial practices. It is not necessarily exhaustive. This list was drawn up in collaboration with the concerned administrations of the federated entities. These are organizations that are or will be investigated. It is therefore not appropriate to disclose it. In the meantime, the controls already carried out have yielded the following results: seven organisations have stopped their activities. Five have adapted their website and/or name. Ten have been notified. A report was issued against three organizations The de-listing procedure of the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises is under way for four organizations. In five cases, the investigation did not reveal any violations of the Code of Economic Law. Several organizations did not follow up on the letter or warning notes issued by the Economic Inspectorate. These organizations include Carolus Magnus University, Robert Schuman University, Euroamerican or American International University, European University for Electronic Education, First University of Western Europe. In these cases, an on-site check at the physical address mentioned has been or will be carried out. Where no activity can be found, the de-listing procedure of the Banque Carrefour des Entreprises shall be initiated. Secondly, a file is sent to the judicial authorities with a view to blocking the websites of the offenders if they are still active. On the basis of a wide range of elements and information, the Economic Inspectorate conducts analyses to identify potential risks and to set control priorities. When an inspection reveals a sectarian organization, the Economic Inspectorate informs the Public Prosecutor's Office in accordance with article 29 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u61	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I am pleased to hear that there are a lot of procedures under way and that vigorous action has been taken. It is important for the respect of true diplomas that we do not end up with these false diplomas that can mislead everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u62	Mrs. Van Hoof is not here. Her question No. So 15330 falls out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u63	Minister, the introduction of Twin Peaks II legislation imposed, among other things, the extension of MiFID rules to the insurance sector. This has led to a sensitive increase in the administrative burden in this sector. We have talked about this on several occasions in the past. Because the Belgian law has been drafted on the basis of the drafts of the European Union and the final directive is less stringent, the insurance sector in our country has been under more administrative pressure than necessary for several years. The final European directive on insurance distribution or IDD should be transposed into Belgian legislation by 23 February 2018, i.e. next year. This means that we still have the opportunity to make adjustments. A possible adjustment would involve saving pensions. The IDD excludes pension products from the additional requirements for insurance products with an investment component. The Belgian law does not do this at the moment, creating unnecessary administrative burdens again for all the limited amounts that savers can save in this way. As the insurance sector is already facing a lot of problems today, we are also talking about this, and some solutions are obvious, I would have liked to answer the following questions. Will you reduce the application of MiFID rules to pension savings products in the context of the transposition of the European Directive 2016/97? Are you planning any other measures to prevent gold plating?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the Twin Peaks II Act, a number of rules of conduct, which used to apply only to the banking sector, were indeed extended to the insurance sector. Those rules apply to third-pillar pension products, i.e. individual pension savings, but not to second-pillar pension products, which are occupational pensions. The IDD has a two-fold structure for the code of conduct chapter. The first part contains a number of information requirements and rules of conduct, which apply without distinction to all insurance products, including, for example, the second and third pillar pension products. The second part includes additional information requirements and rules of conduct applicable to the distribution of one category of insurance products, in particular insurance products with an investment component. Pension products are excluded from that category. Member States should therefore not apply the rules for insurance products with an investment component to second or third pillar pension products. However, not every deviation from the basic European text when transposing a directive is gold-plating. A directive imposes on Member States a minimum level of European harmonisation to be achieved, but leaves them free to go beyond that minimum level where it is deemed necessary at national level. In particular, this can be justified in order to ensure a level playing field for customers, regardless of the distribution channel through which they buy a similar product. Moreover, the IDD states that it seeks only minimum harmonisation of national rules, unlike, for example, MiFID II. Just because of this freedom of choice, the draft texts of the transposition law of the IDD will be submitted for consultation this spring. I therefore propose that we get back to that when the outcome of the consultation is known, which will start in the next few weeks. I'm sure you'll ask for that regularly. I'll bring it up myself, in case you forget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u65	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I was indeed wondering when we would see the drafts for transposition. You have the reputation of being timely in transposing directives. I expect you to stick to this transposition as well. The problem is, of course, much more comprehensive than the subject of my question, but I will be patient and wait for the draft texts. Since you asked so kindly, I shall be happy to return to the matter when we discuss the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u66	Mr Van Hoof, if I apply the Rules of Procedure very strictly, you will be 30 seconds late, but I am going to give you dispensation, as a good confessor. I'll let you ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u67	Mr President, thank you for the absolution, another step closer to heaven. Mr Minister, my question concerns an issue that we discussed in April 2015: the operationalisation of the Partyka Act. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the operational gains that can still be booked in terms of the reasons for the decisions taken by the successor agency in the case before it. A year and a half ago, we discussed signals that I received about the autonomy and objectivity of this agency. It was then understood that the Partyka Act had only entered into force since 1 January 2015, which took time to develop them. This should have happened after almost two years, but the concerns that are being expressed have not yet been resolved. A look at the 2015 annual report of the follow-up agency teaches us that patients are hardly equal in their file. One hundred and seventy out of 204 files dealt with in respect of a denied insurance resulted in the same of the insurer. In the case of the dossiers relating to an additional premium imposed on the prospective insurer, the insurers were equal in 84 percent of the cases. Another important element is the obligation to state reasons associated with them and the way in which they are justified. Come against Cancer made very pertinent comments on this in its annual report, including the need for the Agency to be transparent and clear about the statistics and investigations used, as well as the need to make more efforts to demonstrate that the decisions are appropriate and proportionate. How many files has the follow-up office handled so far in 2016? How many of these files were a refusal or a supplement? How often were the insurers' decisions followed? How often were candidate insurers/patients agreed? What has been done in 2016 to increase the quality of the Agency's obligation to state reasons? In the meantime, for example, is there an index of scientific, independent studies quoted to explain decisions? What has been done with the review framework developed by representatives of patients and consumers? The Partyka Act has been in force for almost two years. Are you considering an evaluation of the law? If not, why not? If so, when do you plan this evaluation? Which actors will you involve? What would you like to do with the possible advice and decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u68	Mrs. Van Hoof, you're asking a lot of questions to get to heaven. The follow-up office received a total of 488 applications in 2016. That figure shall include all applications, including those which are inadmissible and in which the applicant has not, or has not yet, complied with the request of the successor office to complete the application. A number of files have not yet been processed. 305 files have been processed today. In 266 cases, the insurance company's proposal was confirmed. In 39 cases, the insurer's proposal was reformed. No index of scientific studies shall be established. It is in fact the role of the successor agency to examine whether the grounds invoked by the insurer can justify, inter alia, scientific studies, the proposal for a premium or the refusal of a balance of debt insurance. The explanation of his decision is sometimes a delicate exercise for the successor office. It concerns the personal, often very serious medical condition of the people and their translation into survival in relation to that of healthy persons. However, the follow-up agency is sensitive to the question of Kom op tegen Kanker and is currently discussing how the motivation can be improved. Article 218 of the Insurance Act, which dates from 2014, provides for a biannual review of the provisions on insurance to ensure repayment of a credit. That evaluation report should be prepared by the Committee on Insurance and should be accompanied by a study by the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care. I reminded both bodies of this legal task, which they may have lost sight of a little bit. It is appropriate to await that report before carrying out an evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u69	Minister, it is a good thing that the law provides for an evaluation, otherwise the questions and needs of patients' associations might not be taken into account. It is therefore a good thing that you reminded the KCE, among other things, of the evaluation. We are therefore looking forward to the evaluation report that should follow after two years, as laid down in the law, to see whether the aspirations of the various patient associations are justified or whether the follow-up agency is doing its job properly. That should be demonstrated, so that we can draw the necessary policy conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u70	Minister, in the plenary session of 10 November 2016, I already asked you whether banks should pay interest to customers who currently have a negative interest rate on their residential credit. Indeed, some banks went behind the general terms and conditions which state that the credit is in the interest of the bank in order not to have to pay interest. At that time, you expressly said that the banks must pay this interest effectively, as the special conditions that state that the change in the minus of the interest rate is unlimited take precedence over the general terms and conditions. That is a principle of law which you referred to earlier and which under no circumstances should be derogated from, you said, but shortly afterwards Belfius announced that it would definitely not reimburse the negative interest on residential loans. Because this is completely contrary to the principles of law and against your reply in plenary, I wanted to hear what you have already done or will do to ensure that the customers who have to deal with negative interest on their housing credit are also effectively paid by the bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u71	Mr Klaps, I repeat that the Code of Economic Law states that the borrowing rate must fluctuate both in plus and in minus. On this basis, the dates, conditions and modalities of the change in interest rates should be included in the contract. The consumer can therefore also receive negative interest if the contract of his mortgage credit permits or at least does not exclude it. Everything depends on the terms of the contract. It is not possible at the moment to comment on specific cases, but it cannot be clearer. The new mortgage credit legislation has been in force since 1 December. With this legislation, we have ensured that such problems can no longer arise in the future. The provisions on interest rates and variability are now essential elements of the credit agreement and should be globalised in the special terms of the credit agreement. In cases where the Code of Economic Law is not correctly applied, as you suggest in your question, since the terms of the contract do not prevent negative interest rates, the payment will have to be enforced in court.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although, frankly, I expected it to be a little more substantial. You usually play faster or harder on the ball when it comes to consumer protection, while there is actually a black and white story ahead. Either the banks have to pay or they don't have to pay. And if banks formally state that they will not pay, while according to their own general terms and conditions, then I do not understand why you say to those customers that they should only go to court one by one. I believe that a clearer reference can be made from your office to remind the banks of their duties. Can't customers have to argue that individually, can they? If interest rates increase on variable loans, then customers should not ask their bank individually to apply the increase, because the bank will do so automatically. I would therefore ask you once again to call the banks to order and to generalise this arrangement, because that is clearly not happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u73	If you challenge me and say I wouldn't be alert, I'm very sensitive to that. I will write to all the banks to remind them of what I said in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u74	Thank you for that, Minister. As you can see, the system of parliamentary questions encourages action and brings solutions closer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u75	Minister, the ING file does not disappear from the press. The announced restructuring of October 2016 remains much unclear. In fact, due to recent events, the lack of clarity increases even further. Some 3 500 jobs would disappear and offices would close. ING informs us that it is not yet able to say anything about what it will do to the bank agents. However, we hear stories that ING is already closing offices. Even if, on the conclusion of an office, the self-employed, according to book X of the Code of Economic Law, are entitled to a fee equal to one year's commission plus the commission for contracts submitted up to six months after the termination of the contract, I have been informed that ING would only wish to reimburse 80% of the annual commission on the basis of its contracts in some cases. When terminating the contract with an independent office manager, on the basis of a contract, can ING derogate from the statutory fee of one year commission? If not, will you ensure that ING complies with that obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u76	The commercial agency agreement shall be subject to the provisions of Article 1 of Book X of the Code of Economic Law concerning commercial agency agreements. The provisions govern the contractual relations between the parties to commercial agency and indeed provide for special rules regarding the notice period and the calculation of the remuneration payable to the commercial agent in the event of termination. For example, the law provides for an extraction fee, when the commercial agent has applied new customers or when the business with existing customers has been significantly expanded. In such a case, the law provides for a fee of up to 100 % of an annual fee calculated on the basis of the average of the five preceding years or on the basis of the average remuneration in the preceding years if the commercial agency agreement has lasted less than five years. It goes without saying that ING is obliged to comply with these rules. The bank has confirmed to me that it applies those rules. However, the bank declares that, in accordance with the law, it is not obliged to pay 100%, especially if the trading fund has not grown or if the agent has not provided enough new customers. Control of the application of legislation and its interpretation are not the responsibility of my services, in particular the Economic Inspectorate. So I cannot intervene in order to enforce the legal provisions. This is entirely within the sovereign discretion of the courts and courts, who are the only ones empowered to rule on a dispute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that the general principles of the law must indeed be upheld. In addition, however, the independent office holders are often in very difficult situations. The stories tell us that ING has reported orally to several office owners that their contract will be terminated sometime in 2018, but that they do not do so in writing because then the cancellation periods start to run and they have to start calculating cancellation fees. When calculating the collection fee, the argument will be put forward that the independent office owners have recruited too few customers, but who will become a customer today at an office that is known to be closed next year? The people concerned are, after all, in a very difficult situation today, even more difficult than the employees. I would like to call on you to make sure that the bank honours all its obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament 15476 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u79	Minister, I would like to come back to you once again with regard to aggressive commercial approaches, in particular the investigation against Proximedia. As a reminder, according to several returns from the field, relayed by the press and complaints to Test-Achats, many independents, newly registered at the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises, have been victims of aggressive stalls on the part of Proximedia, a provider of internet marketing tools (websites, Google referencing,...). The latter also operates under several commercial names (Online, BizBook, Click+, etc.) which always bring back to the same umbrella structure. Each time, the way of doing this seems to be the same: phone calls, doorsteps at home, commercial discourse based on a "win-win" partnership between nascent companies and, in some cases, the conclusion of a service contract very unfavourable to the self-employed who launches (value-for-money ratio, legal clauses,...). These aggressive business practices clearly surf with the limits of legality and benefit from the non-experience of these new independents as well as their lack of knowledge in terms of the right of withdrawal (not existing for independents as opposed to the particular consumer). Also according to the returns from the field, a survey has been opened with the SPF Economy and more than 90 independents have so far joined together to defend their interests. Minister, the FPS Economy investigation would now be closed. So, could you give us the conclusions? Therefore, what actions will be taken towards Proximedia in view of the aggressive approaches I have just described? More generally, do you envisage measures to further protect the self-employed, including small self-employed and complementary self-employed, from these aggressive business practices? I am thinking, for example, of the introduction of a specific right of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u80	Dear colleague, you are right, the Economic Inspectorate's investigation has been closed. This report was forwarded to the Prosecutor of the King of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. The further processing and follow-up of these files now belongs to the prosecution and I cannot interfere in any case. I am considering, in fact, as stipulated in my policy note, a regulatory framework, in order to better protect companies in their relations with other companies (the B to B). One of the elements of this regulatory framework should relate to unfair practices. The introduction of a right of withdrawal, where the conclusion of the contract takes place in particular circumstances, is also an interesting avenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u81	Minister, thank you for your concise and precise answer. I thought you could share with us the conclusions of the FPS Economy. That's why I was questioning you. If that's not possible because they were passed on to the King's attorney, I don't see any problem. As far as protection is concerned, it seems to me fundamental. We have a lot of returns from SMEs that get run by processes used by IT companies, telephony or online marketing services. We see many problems in this regard. I guess you're aware of that. In short, we will remain extremely attentive and will support you, if necessary, if you come to defend measures to protect these independents against such unfair practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u82	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, last June you announced the establishment of a task force to determine how our country could cope with the consequences of Brexit. The working group is now composed of representatives of ministerial offices, sectoral federations and personalities from the employers' benches. Today, I would like to take stock of the work that has taken place so far and ask you the following questions. What about the state of progress of the consultation at the task force level and what measures have possibly already been adopted to manage the consequences of Brexit? As far as the European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority are concerned, can you confirm that our country is a candidate for the two institutions? What is the involvement of the Task Force in this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u83	Mr Smaers is not here. Her question No. 15635 is hereby repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already communicated, the Task Force was set up on 20 June 2016. Since then, this high-level working group has met on several occasions. The focus of this group's discussions is on monitoring, analysis and measures regarding the economic impact of Brexit and its short-, medium- and long-term consequences for the private sector. It is an advisory group and therefore it is not up to him to take action. So far, the focus of the group's work has been on areas where the studies have shown, because of their defensive and offensive interest, the need for in-depth examination. FEVIA, Fedustria. Febelfin and the real estate sector were invited to take part in the discussions in the working group on their position on the UK market and their concerns regarding Brexit. Monitoring analyses prepared jointly by the SPF Economy, the Plan Office and the National Bank were also submitted on each occasion. Other sectors were asked to communicate in writing their position on the UK market as well as their concerns and expectations. At the beginning of February, the High Level Group wishes to submit to the Government an interim report on the real and possible impact of Brexit on the Belgian economy today and tomorrow. It will also submit to the Government a series of recommendations on the positions the Belgian Government could take in the forthcoming negotiations. It is not for me, as Minister of Economy, to organise the debate between all the governments in this country on the position of the Belgian negotiations. However, I can say that the Regions are involved in the working group as the CEOs of the regional export agencies are part of it and have received all the documents and analyses. A Belgian position will have to be developed once the United Kingdom has activated Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union and the intentions of the negotiators in the United Kingdom are clearer. Today, like me, you listened to Mrs May's speech. I understand that all the Belgian governments are currently preparing for this debate which is likely to take place within the framework of the concertation committee. As for Belgium's application for the establishment of certain European agencies currently established in London, the decision has not yet been taken. It goes without saying that if there is an opportunity, our country will gladly welcome these institutions to its territory. The working group is obviously in favour of this. The timing and manner in which our country would formally apply will depend on many factors. It is far too early and, in my view, Belgium is already hosting many institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u85	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. The timeliness and chance of the committee's calendar mean that we are in the middle of the issue today. We will continue to monitor the development of this issue with its various implications for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u86	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 15563 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u87	Mr. Speaker, minister, I'm going back to the mystery shopping that was part of a bill that you introduced to us last June. I would like to return to two specific questions. First, section 137 of your bill states that the subsidiarity test must be able to be applied before each check. What guarantees can you make to ensure that this test is actually carried out and, above all, respected? The second question follows the reactions that the Council of State has highlighted. Why did you not follow up on the opinion of the Council of State that it was necessary to clarify who would appreciate the "absolutely necessary" nature of checks with infringements? What about the additional legal guarantees, both for the litigants concerned and for the agents in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u88	Mr. Speaker, dear colleague, to be clear, as you know, we are no longer at the stage of this bill. The law was passed on 29 June 2016. This is specifically section 37 of the Act. In the explanatory memorandum of the law and in the commentary by article, it was explained why the remark of the Council of State had not been acted upon. You will also find the necessary guarantees to ensure that this research technique is not abused. Officials who are authorised to use the technique of mystery shopping are, depending on whether the investigation is in an administrative or criminal phase, subject to the supervision of their superiors within the administration or the Public Prosecutor's Office who may decide whether or not the procedure is necessary. I also share with you the following. The Economic Inspectorate could already use the technique of mystery shopping to monitor the application of Book VII of the Code of Economic Law (payment and credit services). Thus, there are already internal guidelines for its implementation. It is also intended that companies should be specifically informed of the technique that has been applied when a warning report or concertation report is based on these findings. This gives companies the opportunity, if any, to oppose it. Finally, it is up to the judge to decide whether all the conditions for the application of the technique have been met and whether the evidence gathered in this way can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer. I wanted to have that clarification. I went to the report and had not been convinced of the exchanges. So I was still asking myself a lot of questions about how to put mystery shopping into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u90	I now turn to our chairman, Mr Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u91	Mr President, you are now chairman of this committee. I'm just sitting here as a committee member. I will speak in French to ask my question. Minister, the bill provides that the Commissioner and members of his network cannot provide "legal services related to the provision of general advice" to public interest entities subject to statutory audit. This is the result of the translation of the European Regulation EU 537/2014 of the terms "general counsel", which are similar in Belgium to the position of company lawyer acting as legal director or permanent manager of the internal legal service at the company. It seems to me that we had this debate during the exchange of views in the general discussion of the bill. Minister, I therefore come back to this issue. Could you clarify, in the Belgian legal order, this notion of "legal services relating to the provision of general advice"? Do you confirm that this concept does not include all legal services? Finally, do you confirm that this concept does not include legal audits (due diligence), the preparation of draft contracts, and assistance in the implementation of management decisions (e.g. the implementation of a corporate reorganization), which are not covered by the prohibition of "legal services relating to the provision of general advice"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u92	Mr President, Mr Delizée, in response to your question, I can tell you that Article 132/1, paragraph 3, point 2 of the Company Code provides for a prohibition on the provision of "legal services relating to the provision of general advice" by the Commissioner and by all members of his network in the event of a statutory audit of a public interest entity. This prohibition derives directly from Article 5(1)(g) of Regulation EU 537/2014. In the Dutch version of the Regulation, this prohibited service is formulated as follows: Legal services relating to the provision of general While in the English version, this prohibited service is worded as follows: "Legal services with respect to the provision of general counsel." In the above-mentioned article of the Company Code, the terminology used in the Dutch and French versions of the Regulation was identical. The question that may arise is what is meant by "legal services relating to the provision of general advice". In the context of the preparatory work carried out at European level, the European Commission has stated that the terms "general counsel" refer to "any legal advisor provided by the auditor to the audited entity during the decision-making process". In other words, according to the European Commission, it is prohibited for the Commissioner of a public interest body, as well as for all members of his network, to give any legal advice. The concept of "general counsel", translated as "general opinions", refers to the provision of legal services and opinions. It is not limited to a function within a company, as envisaged in the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. If, however, uncertainty as to the scope of this prohibition were to arise in practice, the interpretation to be given must, in any event, always be in line with the objective of the regulation, which was to guarantee the Commissioner's independence, in particular by avoiding conflicts of interest and promoting self-control. In case of doubt, the Commissioner will be able to discuss these questions of independence with the competent authority, in this case the College of Supervision of Business Reviewers, established by Article 32 of the Act of 7 December 2016 on the organisation of the profession and the public supervision of business reviewers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u93	Minister, thank you for your answers. The question is very technical, I agree. Of course, the interpretation of the law and legal terms sometimes raises questions, especially if they come from English terms coming from a European regulation. We'd discussed it before. For me, this technical question required clarification. Your explanation goes in that direction. It is interpretive of the law. But it is clear that this subject is not simple and that it will, in any case, require special vigilance. The future will tell. I take note of your information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u94	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, Bill 2083/001, applicable to any controlled entity, provides that the Commissioner and members of his network may not provide services relating to the exercise of an advocacy role in the resolution of a dispute (item (b)) and the representation of the corporation subject to statutory review in the resolution of disputes, whether tax or otherwise (item (c). The references to the articles of the law can be found in the written text of my question. The wording used under point (b), i.e. the advocacy role in resolving a dispute, is the result of European Regulation 537/2014, which, however, is only applicable to public interest entities, unlike the draft law. The wording used under point (c) is the result of the rule existing in Belgian law in the Royal Decree implementing the Company Code, which refers to representation, not assistance, in the settlement of disputes, whether tax or otherwise. It would appear that these two provisions cover the same situation with respect to representation in disputes. Minister, can you tell us the difference between the two notions of "defensor in the context of resolving a dispute" and "representation in the settlement of disputes"? Do you confirm that support, assistance and advice in disputes are not covered by the prohibition?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Delizée, these are very relevant questions! In reply to your question, I can inform you that Article 133/1, § 2, point 6, of the Company Code lists among other things the following prohibited services for the Commissioner and for any member of his network – I quote –: "services relating to (a) the negotiation on behalf of the company subject to statutory audit, (b) the exercise of a defence control in the context of the resolution of a dispute, (c) the representation of the company subject to statutory audit in the settlement of tax or other disputes." These prohibited services concern all companies, i.e. both public interest undertakings (PIPs) and non-public interest undertakings (non-PIPs). Following the implementation, in Belgium, of the European audit reform, the legislator chose not to go backwards in the light of the legislation in force, while at the same time incorporating the wording of the new European provisions into Belgian law as much as possible. For this reason, a technical-legal point of view was chosen for a separate indication of points (b) and (c). The provision of such services is likely to jeopardise the Commissioner's independence at least as regards his appearance independence, which is now explicitly included in Belgian law by Article 12, § 2, point 2, of the Law of 7 December 2016 on the organisation of the profession and public supervision of corporate reviewers. If, however, uncertainty as to the scope of these prohibitions were to arise, the interpretation to be given must, in any event, always be in accordance with the spirit of the independence provisions. An opinion may, if necessary, be requested from the competent authority, in this case the Supervisory Board of Enterprise Reviewers set up by Article 32 of the above-mentioned Act of 7 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u96	Thank you, Minister. I take note of your answer. Like the previous one, it is really quite technical in nature. I hope that it will provide the sectors and individuals concerned with the necessary clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u97	Mr.President, Minister, since 1 December 2016, BNP Paribas Fortis has doubled its file fees for mortgage refinancing. The cost increases from 350 to 700 euros. New customers will pay 500 euros instead of 350 euros. To justify this, the bank refers to low interest rates. A few days later, as a result of this decision, it was found that Test-Achats considered this to be illegal. We also heard, minister, that you agreed that this practice was illegal. You also met with some of the bank's officials. On Friday, December 4, 2016, the Council of Ministers approved a draft law to require credit agencies to submit to the borrower candidate a standardized form containing the credit conditions and obligations. Test-Achats, however, sees only "good declarations of intent" and denounces three major weaknesses. First, this form would be given to the client too late. Second, the bill prevents the consumer from changing the Schedule product. Finally, the bill would not allow the consumer to compare informed offers, leaving room for manoeuvre to lenders, too broad to define what is or is not included in the definition of the interest rate, i.e. the GAAT. In short, according to Test-Achats, the bill would miss its target! The consumer organisation has therefore called on BNP Paribas to cease its illegal practice. She had 15 days to comply with the law. Remember that the Belgian State, via the SFPI, is a shareholder of 10% of the BNP Paribas Fortis Group. This situation, Minister, leads me to ask you the following questions. What result have you obtained from your discussions with BNP Paribas Fortis Bank officials as a result of this increase in file fees? What is the status of the draft law that has been validated in the Council of Ministers? Will the criticisms I have repeated from Test-Achats be included in the text to be presented to Parliament? Finally, do you intend to take further action to deal with this situation, this increase in costs unilaterally which penalizes our fellow citizens and, once again, certainly the most modest of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u98	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, with regard to the case fee for the refinancing of mortgage loans, a royal decree is in preparation providing for maximums for all file fees. The draft was sent for advice to the Council of State. The text you mention was already voted on in Parliament last year and came into force on 1 December last. With regard to your questions about the criticism of Test-Achats, I can tell you this. Firstly, it is requested that the European Standard Information Sheet be given to the consumer on his first visit as soon as the consumer has indicated the amount he wishes to borrow for a certain period of time. This is an already highly personalized document, which implies that the lender examines the consumer's financial situation and seeks the credit that is best suited to him. This work is almost similar to the delivery of the credit offer. Contrary to what Test-Achats claims, the lender cannot, at this stage, claim its claim fees. In addition, this organization is critical of group sales. However, the directive allows this, while prohibiting coupled selling. The latter means that the consumer is obliged to use ancillary services from the creditor in order to be able to obtain a loan. In the event of a coupled sale, the products are all offered separately, but the customer can get a discount on the loan price if he buys all the products in the package. The reasoning of Test-Achats is difficult to follow. First of all, it makes sense that if a bank knows that it will have to continue to offer the lowest rate, it will be less tempted to grant it. The lower rate is therefore a conditional reduction that is adopted when the award criteria are no longer met, not an increase in the initial rate. This is the loss of a conditional benefit. In addition, insurance can be terminated annually. If it is more advantageous for the consumer to enter into less expensive fire insurance, he always has the possibility to change. Via ESIS, it will be able to clearly distinguish and compare the different rates. Finally, Test-Achats claims that the room for manoeuvre in the bill allows lenders to define what is or is not part of the overall effective annual rate (AEG), that it is far too broad and that it does not allow consumers to compare informed offers. First of all, the TAEG expresses in percentage the total amount of the credit on an annual basis and gives an overview of the total facts of the credit for the consumer, thus allowing to compare the different offers. This is a harmonised subject matter at European level, which is strictly regulated. Therefore, there is no question of a lender being able to calculate the APR at its own discretion. In addition, the ESIS provisions provide that fees payable on a one-time or regular basis must be indicated in the ESIS. During the drafting of this law, sufficient mechanisms were taken up to protect the consumer. Subsequent legislation is therefore not necessary. If, however, I was aware of new practices which do not sufficiently guarantee the rights of the consumer, I would not hesitate to intervene. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u99	Minister, thank you. You announced your meeting with BNP Paribas Fortis about this increase in case fees. Did it happen? You didn't give feedback on that. Would you like to comment on the answers provided by the bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u100	Briefly, I said I was going to take an initiative and decide on a royal order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u101	Deputy Prime Minister, for several months now the situation of nail shops in our country has been the subject of great attention. Indeed, the number of nail-modeling establishments has literally exploded, particularly in the Brussels region. However, it appears that the growth of this economic sector would have led to the desire of a number of unscrupulous entrepreneurs. In November 2016, a joint operation carried out in the capital by the Federal Police, ONEM, SPF Finances, SPF Santé, the Social Inspectorate, the Regional Laboratory, the Office of Foreigners and the Urbanism department of the city of Brussels, had produced 24 reports for social fraud, 12 for tax evasion, 3 for work in the black and 12 for illegal stay. In addition, 50 kilos of illegal chemicals had been seized. In December 2016, the press returned to the issue by highlighting a new dimension of the problem, namely a "cashed" pricing policy operated by certain centres, below any reasonable threshold of profitability. This situation is calling again! The problem of course concerns consumer protection, particularly with regard to the risk of the use of illegal products which cause allergies, burns or infections. On this point, I would like to ask you a few questions. According to the information at your disposal, what is the current state of the nail shop sector in our country? What are the number of players and the growth of the sector in recent years? As part of your expertise, and in synergy with other members of the federal government, what measures are planned to support the consolidation of this sector and strengthen consumer protection? Finally, are you in favour of the emergence of a charter of good practice and the adoption of a quality label, which would strengthen the level of trust between entrepreneurs and citizens, but also to protect the centres and independents of the sector that comply with the legal prescriptions and feel penalized today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u102	Mr President, my colleague, as you mentioned in the preamble to your question, the Inspectorate was not involved in the action taken in November 2016. It has not received any reports from consumers or competitors concerning this type of practice. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that market practice legislation only prohibits the sale of products at a loss. It does not therefore concern the offer of lost services such as nail care. I am, of course, in favour of any regulatory or self-regulatory initiative aimed at improving consumer protection and stimulating healthy competition. Finally, I would like to inform you that there are no precise data on the number of nail shops in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u103	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. It is important to adapt our legislation. As you said, lost selling is prohibited, but the law does not apply to sectors that provide services. In view of the development of the sector, which is a matter of concern and the undesirable practices of some who benefit from the increase in demand, it would be necessary to re-establish the framework and take action in this regard. But perhaps you will make concrete proposals on this. I would remind you that this sector is developing and deserves special attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has indicated that he should stop at 5:00 p.m. It's 17:05 in the meantime. Mr Minister, I will leave it to your assessment whether you would like to answer one last question or would you like to stop and postpone the rest of the questions? We have to deal with the rest of the questions next time anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u105	There is another question from Mrs Winckel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u106	No, there is still a series of questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u107	Mrs. Winckel, I have another meeting at 5:30 p.m. but if you tell me you absolutely want to ask your questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u108	Can we just deal with Question No 15752 on the legal guarantee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u109	Compromise!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u110	Minister, you recently announced in the media that you would like to review the guarantee rules. A bill to extend the period during which the burden of proof rests with the manufacturer or supplier should be tabled by the summer. Even if the guarantees are valid for two years, a defect is presumed to be related to the product itself or to the service only for the first six months. It will therefore be the responsibility of the producer or supplier to prove that the defect has another origin. Having tabled a bill on the subject and having already asked you about this topic in May 2016, I am therefore pleased to see this desire to extend the guarantee periods realized. How are you doing with this new bill? You confirmed to me in May 2016 that a study on questionable guarantee practices will be organized in consultation with your colleague, the Minister of Environment and Sustainable Development. What are the conclusions of this study? In addition to the warranty extension, are you currently working on other avenues within the limits of your skills and relating to the warranty?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have recently referred a series of measures to the Consumer Council and the High Council of Independents and Small and Medium Enterprises to improve the legal guarantee rules for consumers and retailers. I also asked the FPS Economy to examine how the current legislation should be amended to improve the situation. Of course, I'll send you a copy of the referrals. In this way, you will be able to see what action I intend to take. The study organised in consultation with my colleague, the Minister of the Environment and Sustainable Development, is much broader than the legal guarantee problem, since it aims at programmed obsolescence and policies and measures to reduce consumer protection. The findings of this study are expected by the end of March 2017 and I cannot, at this stage, assume what will be included in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u112	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that for a long time we have been talking about this legal guarantee and the changes to be made in the legal field. It is very important to be able to move forward, to increase to two years. As you have mentioned, programmed obsolescence is also a subject on which we have to work and take things at arm-to-body. It goes in the same spirit. I will therefore allow myself to return to the subject when you have the results of the study. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it does not take too long to move forward on the legal guarantee. You have enough elements and the subject is really known. So don't hesitate to move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-17-54-commissie-ic565x.u113	Colleagues, until now this sitting.
