ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u2	Minister, in 2016, Belgium spent EUR 9.1 billion online. This means that the Belgian spends around 16 percent of its income online, especially on plane tickets, concert tickets and Internet companies, such as Bol.com and Coolblue. International companies partly use Belgian logistics for their transport because night work is allowed in that sector, which also provides a lot of jobs. However, retailers continue to lag behind on e-commerce because night work is a problem there. To solve this problem, an e-commerce framework was concluded with the sector to allow night work. However, the framework-cao provides for a procedure whereby all trade unions at company level must agree to introduce night work at company level. We warned you last year that this could cause problems. You said, however, that you had a positive impression of the possibilities for implementation, as all the actors around the table had agreed. However, a number of recent press articles tell us that our country is still lagging behind and that more than 30 000 jobs have already been created in our neighbouring countries and not here. One of the reasons would be that the trade unions are still trying to curb the reform of night work. After 1 April, it was also promised that there would be an evaluation on the framework cao and I have a number of questions on that. In the meantime, was an evaluation of the framework cao made? Could you give us a little more explanation? In the meantime, how many companies have entered into a new collective agreement? How many companies are covered by the SME statute? How many jobs do they get in the meantime? Do you have any knowledge of any problems with trade unions at company level in the introduction of the collective agreement? We must also bear in mind the following question. Are there any managers who make it a problem to fill in the framework cao? Do you see any possibility of introducing night work into e-commerce within the retail sector in a different, faster way?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting with the good news: e-commerce is booming. Our country is also gaining more and more power in the field of e-commerce. Anyone who says e-commerce must realise that e-commerce is very often a cross-border trade. Cross-border means that logistics is very often very large. A study of Copenhagen Economics has been published. If you look at where Europeans buy country by country and also look at the top 3 of Europeans, you will see that these countries are divided between Germany and the United Kingdom. Fortunately, Belgium has managed to reach the top 3 of two neighbouring countries, namely the Netherlands and France. Fortunately, the French and the Dutch also like to buy on Belgian sites. Of course, there lies the challenge of logistics and night work, for which we fought so hard, but which fortunately is now a legal fact. It is a pity, and for us it may go further, that we need the agreement of all trade unions. We are absolutely asking to be able to go further in this, so that in a subsequent study by Copenhagen Economics we are not among the top 3 of our neighbouring countries, but are moving towards the first place, and that we also know how to charm other countries. That's where the jobs lie. The challenge in e-commerce today is flexibility in the labour market. That is the question to you, Minister, in the field of work. What more will you do to ensure that flexibility is possible and that the jobs in e-commerce that could grow further in our country are not lost? This is a government of job creation and e-commerce is a sector that can deliver this ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u4	Mr President, Mr Janssen, Mr Ceysens, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that e-commerce is important and can create jobs. Let this debate not continue, everyone agrees on that. We've come a long way. We have concluded a framework agreement with the sector, Mr Janssen, to which you refer. We have even taken another step: with the government's last decision on e-commerce, Article 79 of the Law on workable and manoeuvrable work was introduced. That is the proposal put forward by Mr Ceysen, who has been incorporated into the law. In fact, Mr Janssen, this framework cao is behind us: we duly registered it in the law, in accordance with Mr Ceysen's bill a while ago. You're asking for an evaluation. That law was published on 15 March 2017. We will be able to evaluate this after three months after the law has been published and companies have been able to apply it. There are examples. Torfs is a good example. They have taken the cow by the horns and found an agreement with the unions. We continue to negotiate with sector federations and trade unions to further facilitate e-commerce, which you are also convinced of. We have noted that it has been stressed that labour flexibility is the major problem here. I have already said in the past that, despite the tax shift, wage costs remain an important issue for e-commerce and night work: 17% difference with the Netherlands. If you are only talking about the flexibility and veto of the trade unions, as Mr Janssen is doing, do not forget that this 17% will not disappear if an additional measure is taken. I have learned from previous questions that I am also expected to make proposals. I would like to announce that on this occasion. I will draw up a proposal to create, firstly, a legal framework to enable and even experiment on e-commerce beyond other countries. Secondly, I would like to say that I hope that everyone will give me the full support to tackle the labour costs problem within the European framework, specifically for e-commerce, which is 17%. I hope that we will be able to deal with this in the government in the next few weeks, so that, not only at the start of the question, but also at the end of the two fellow Members, in the near future, I can get the response that we have done everything and that it is now really booming, with the two elements that I myself will propose. I will come to Parliament with this if the government approves it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We do not want to have said that. I am, of course, glad that you are also willing to do something about those 17% wage costs. I want to say one more thing. We have missed 30 000 jobs, jobs that were created in our neighbouring countries. These are jobs for workers and low-skilled servants. We must ensure that we prepare ourselves for the new train that is coming with regard to e-commerce. We must prepare for the future landscape. This means that we must create these jobs in Belgium and Flanders and not abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u6	Minister, you would make me very happy. This is an encouragement to continue. You will know that we too will keep knocking on that nail because it is nice to note that there is a great deal of support for e-commerce in this hemisphere. We would like to forgive Mrs Remen's minor misstep for the N-VA's colleagues. She proposed taxing e-commerce. I believe that we have everything to gain by encouraging e-commerce because it makes it possible to create many jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Terwingen, I have to say that the volume of sound is quite impressive from here. Perhaps we can show some respect for the fellow Members who are asking questions here, and for the ministers who are replying. That wouldn't be unkind.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u8	Minister, I am standing here not only as a Member of Parliament but also as spokesman for many presidents of police zones and mayors who are concerned, and perhaps even more as spokesman for the policemen themselves. It is about the policemen who have to man and women day in and day out of the local police and who see that the more pressure comes on the kettle. More and more tasks are transferred to the local level by the federal level. There is no need to increase the resources for this. Minister, I have heard that there are plans for a new letter, which seems to once again transfer a number of federal tasks to the local areas. For example, if HyCap is to be delivered when local areas are required to provide people with federal protection measures, even logistics should be provided by a number of local police areas, which, of course, are not equipped for that purpose and will have to make additional investments. It is also said that a solidarity mechanism will be put in place for areas that HyCap does not want to supply, even if it is a question of not being able to deliver them because of the excessive burden that is already being imposed by the various measures. Mr Minister, can you reassure the local areas and local police officers that no additional pressure will be created and that no additional funding will have to be provided by the zones to fill in federal activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u9	Thank you very much for your question, Mr Terwingen, because when such matters are said about the forthcoming letter of conversion, they are entirely à coté de la plaque, as they are so beautifully said. After all, the new letter, which will be sent to my office for signature at the end of next week, aims, firstly, to bring the HyCap back to what it was intended for, namely solidarity between the local police zones and not vertical solidarity with the federal police. That system has been defined in the past, by the widely known circumstances, but, once again, it is intended to place it back where it belongs, via the letter, in the local areas for the sake of mutual solidarity. Only in exceptional cases, for example in the event of one-off major events, can the HyCap be deployed to the federal police. I want to be very clear about that. The aim is to bring the HyCap system to where it is needed, i.e. to the local areas on the basis of mutual solidarity. Secondly, it is also intended to reward the good students in the classroom, namely those who fulfil their commitments under the HyCap, and to put their house in order for the areas which repeatedly abdicate or drop out. The aim is very clear solidarity between the local areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u10	Mr President, I have to say with you that not only the Minister of Work brings good news to Parliament, but apparently also the Minister of the Interior. If there has been any unrest, I have noted very clearly that local police areas will not have to provide additional logistical resources to bring their own HyCap people to the scene. On the contrary, there will be less HyCap. I also note that in any case there will be no conflict with the financial concessions of the federal level, which have already been rooted and committed in all areas, and that only additional money can be obtained at the time when we want to give additional HyCap. That's good news. The various mayors among us, who are responsible for a police zone, now also know that the financial resources are guaranteed and that they can only increase once HyCap is settled. That is how I understood very clearly from your answer. I wonder if you can live up to that. I'm definitely looking forward to the future. We will work together, Minister, to improve the operation of the police, including from the local police. The local policemen are on their gums; it is good that you are well aware of this and that there are apparently additional resources. That can only be welcomed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bonte's question is now on the agenda, but, unfortunately, since he is not here, that question will lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u12	Minister, sometimes I have the impression that the MR does not stand for Mouvement Républicain but for Macron. You strongly support this French presidential candidate in your statements, together with your Prime Minister, who even felt it necessary to send warm congratulations on Twitter last week to Emmanuel Macron: "My support for an optimistic and forward-looking European project'. You will continue to do so as Secretary of State. You even make statements on radio and television in which you call on the French in Belgium not to vote for the extreme right, i.e. not for Marine Le Pen. Strange, because I thought you were a minister? As a citizen, of course, you can explain what you want. As Minister, and certainly as Prime Minister in the case of your colleague, that is somewhat different. Then you represent the nation, then you represent the interests of our country and of all the inhabitants of this country. I have the impression that you do not respect neutrality in this matter and that you do not want to respect democracy in France either, that you do not want to accept the opinion of the French electorate, for whomever it may vote. As a minister and as a government, you must wait for the election results and respect democracy. Everything else, Minister, is manipulation! Everything else is democracy on demand, elections à la carte, based on your ideological beliefs, and you do not respect the ideological beliefs of the French electorate. I therefore ask you to withdraw your statements and those of the Prime Minister and to apologise to the French electorate and to behave neutrally in future in any elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u13	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, we are democrats and so we prefer to go to European meetings without partners of the extreme right. I know, that's not an argument for you. But more than that, we are Europeans and Mrs Le Pen's programme is very dangerous for France, for Europe and for Belgium, with many turbulences in relation to our currency, for example. There are several reasons for taking such a position. It was said so and I can confirm it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u14	Mr President, Minister, in English one would speak of adding seizure to jury. The Belgian government is insulting millions of French voters today, with the applause of N-VA's Deputy Prime Ministers and CD&V who are complicit in this, let that be noted. Maybe Mrs. Le Pen will be president on Sunday. What are you gonna do? What is the Belgian Government going to do about a neighbour with whom we maintain economic, political and other relations? In the meantime, you have offended Putin. You've given election advice against Trump. You won't find Victor Orban in Hungary. In the long run, Belgium is isolated from all those so-called extreme right-wing presidents. And of course we have the great moral right of Minister Reynders and Prime Minister Michel, supported by the N-VA in this government and by the CD&V, who apparently no longer respect the opinion of the electorate, of the French electorate, who voted with millions of votes in favour of Le Pen and will do so again on Sunday, but who seem to be slavish and submissive following the MR in Wallonia in their drive to be politically correct and support the left-wing presidential candidate Macron.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u15	Minister, this Monday was Labour Day, but it wasn't a party for everyone, especially not for the sick who have to pay for antibiotics more expensive now because of your measure. This is an idiotic measure, "een domme maatregel" according to Professor De Maeseneer of the UGent. The PTB, too, wants to achieve savings in social security and health care, but not on the backs of patients, as this government does. Instead, your friends from multinational pharmaceutical companies should be involved. That is why we have been proposing a "kiwi" model for a long time, which is to compete with pharmaceutical companies and pay back only the cheapest drug of equal quality. We have shown that by applying this principle to the 25 most expensive drugs for social security, we could save 480 million for health insurance. Our doctors have organized a trip to the Netherlands next Saturday, where this principle is applied, to establish a comparison and show that both the patient and social security can save in this way. Some examples: an anti-cholesterol cost in Belgium 20.03 euros and 7.74 euros in the Netherlands, the patient's user ticket is 5.36 euros in Belgium and 1.89 euros in the Netherlands; a nasal spray costs 15.18 euros in Belgium and 4.46 euros in the Netherlands; a neuroleptic cost 152.84 euros in Belgium and 11.66 euros in the Netherlands, and the moderator ticket 14.80 euros instead of 2.91 euros. Minister, that's the reality when the state refuses social security to be a donor and competes with multinational pharmaceutical companies. As a liberal, however, you should defend the principle of competition. How do you explain these price differences between Belgium and the Netherlands? Would you agree to investigate how to reduce the price of medicines in Belgium? Would you agree to publish the study that was commissioned, at the time when Ms. Onkelinx was Minister of Health, on the legal analysis of the "kiwi" system, which dates from February 27, 2009? On this basis, do you agree to consider a model that makes medicines cheaper for patients and for social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u16	Mr Van Hees, as you know, our refund system goes through INAMI and not through private insurers, such as in the Netherlands or New Zealand. As a member of the PTB, I assume you welcome it. Minister Demotte has already tried to introduce the "kiwi" model in Belgium after extensive research and adaptations. In 2017, INAMI was only able to launch a public market for two molecules: Amlodipine and Simvastatin. However, there were few bidders. At the time, the experts of the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products found serious problems in the supply of these products. Today you can find a lot of websites in the Netherlands. In 2014, more than 800,000 prescription drugs were not delivered. Is this the system you want for your patients? This can affect the quality of treatment. In our home, they can get an alternative, even if it is more expensive. In the absence of alternatives, it is even more dangerous! The Netherlands anticipates unavailability by seeking medicines abroad, which are also more expensive. The "kiwi" model doesn't work for us. In our Future Pact, we have considered further reductions in the prices of medicines. We are also practicing the hospital package and, since 2015, according to the FPS Economy figures, the price of medicines has decreased by more than 2%. If you're blind, I don't! From 2015 to 2018, we also release $1.4 billion to repay innovative treatments. Patients will spend 60 million less. As far as the tourism you have organised by bus in the Netherlands is concerned, it is not the task of a doctor to organise bus trips to further encourage over-consumption. It should also be noted that this is not a matter of public health. It is a political blow and it has nothing to do with people's health!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u17	Madam Minister, I can join you on one point. It is true that it is not normally for PTB doctors to organise these trips to the Netherlands. Rather, it would be up to you, as a minister, to care about the fate of the patients. So I can only invite you. If you want, I can register you Saturday to go with the PTB doctors in the Netherlands to see how things are going there. I think that would be interesting for you. You're talking about shortage. Excuse me, but in Belgium, there are also shortages of medicines! I have already asked you in the Committee on Health about this. Together with patients, PTB doctors took action against Pfizer because Pfizer had organized a drug shortage. It was handled by the PTB. You cared very little, if any, about the question. So you don't have to give any lessons about shortage. I can still tell you that Christian Mutuality has found a technical answer to the problem of possible shortages by allowing a "kiwi" system based on two or three medicines. The technical solution exists. You have a few meagre arguments, which are technically weak enough because, on principle, you do not agree to charge multinational pharmaceutical companies. You'd rather make the patients pay. That is the general policy of this government!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hear that you are not blind, Madam Minister. I therefore invite you to read the investigation that the FGTB has just carried out on service titles and cleaning. This survey is quite interesting; it tells us that in this sector, 94% of workers, mostly female workers, suffer from physical pain. In this profession, it is often the back that is put to the test. This study also tells us that seven out of ten workers feel that their employer does not want to offer them suitable work if they return to work. In any event, this shows the importance of the prevention and follow-up that must be given to the worker when contracting a disease. Unfortunately, that is not what this government is doing. At the end of 2016, you amended the law. We discussed your bill in this chamber and opposed it because of some ambiguity about the government's intentions and the possible dangers it posed to workers who were already vulnerable to the disease. The facts have given us reason because, in your general policy note, you are moving forward with the concept of sanction. At the time, things were still a little blurry, but you lifted all the ambiguity on the occasion of the last budgetary conclave. There will therefore be sanctions for sick workers who do not feel ready to return to work within a certain period of time. To date, we are not yet aware of the procedures for monitoring and sanctioning, but perhaps you will be able to provide us with information on this. It is clear, however, that the government's objective is to save money and allow employers to leave sick workers free of charge. The figures for the first half of 2017 in the above-mentioned survey show that in 72% of cases, the occupational doctor admits the worker permanently unfit to perform the agreed worker, which implies a break without notice of the employment contract and no compensation. Minister, are you aware of this study? What conclusions do you draw? How will you correct the shot against this highly unfair and counterproductive policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u19	Mr President, Mr Delizée, I note with you that, in its communication, the FGTB makes a strong reference to me. You are aware, however, that many of the issues raised do not fall within my competence but within the competence of the Federal Minister for Employment. Working conditions and regulations concerning the well-being of employees at work are part of his competence. Similarly, the ability to terminate an employment contract because of a permanent incapacity for work is part of the labour law which is not within my competence either. Having said that, I would like to point out that the current legislation on the termination of an employment contract due to a permanent incapacity for work is the implementation of an agreement between the social partners. There is first of all the opinion of February 2015 of the National Labour Council which is taken up in the opinion of the Group of Ten of 10 December 2015. I am very surprised that one of the social partners is now blaming us for the implementation of this agreement. To be absolutely clear, our objective is absolutely not to encourage the use of permanent incapacity for work. On the contrary, we want more workers, despite their illness, to be able to keep their jobs, by adapting working conditions or workloads or by offering another job. It is also felt that employers have a responsibility to promote reintegration where possible. There are, of course, situations where a suitable job cannot be offered and where, for reasons related to pathology, it is not possible to keep the specific profile of a worker in the company. To the impossible no one is bound. It's obvious. It is quite conceivable that rehabilitation opportunities are sometimes limited in this specific sector, but our policy aims to promote reintegration and prevention, especially for the benefit of sick workers. I note and deplore the desire of some to create a negative atmosphere around these measures by giving them a rather special reading. I believe that this desire does not help sick workers to reintegrate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. At the end of these, I wonder if there is a minister competent to look after sick workers. Apparently no one is competent: "It's not me, it's the other!" Perhaps there was no agreement between you on the issue of sanctions? No worker is sick for pleasure and if a disease is found, it is found by doctors, general practitioners or specialists. Finally, the worker is told that he is no longer good at work and is thrown away. He was therefore unemployed overnight. We are challenging this government policy. After stigmatizing the unemployed and job seekers, it is now sick workers. This seems unacceptable to us! We ask you to pursue a truly proactive policy of reintegration into work that takes into account the well-being of workers, for a resumption without sanction or dismissal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u21	Mr President, Minister, last Friday you announced your agreement on the RIZIV numbers. I was surprised and thought I could congratulate you this week on your realization. In the meantime, however, many questions have arisen, which I would like to put to you. First of all, I refer to the annual report of the Planning Committee. According to the latest annual report, 2 352 surplus doctors for the French Community would be released in 2019 and 2 758 by 2020. If I go through the calculation, by 2024 the figure would be just over 3 000. Suddenly I hear that the surplus in 2024 will not be 3 000, but 1 531, half. According to what magic formula do you come to that result? If I understand correctly, the phasing-out of the doctors would extend over a period of 15 years. Can you confirm that it will indeed take until 2038 before the doctor's transfer is eliminated? Many students in the French Community started this year, although they did not pass an entrance exam, whereas the Flemish students did. Quotas for 2022 are not yet fixed. Will you draw up a royal decision or take other initiatives? A number of parties have always maintained the 60/40 division. What, however, is the situation with regard to quotas 2023? There we go to a ratio of 58/42. That's historic. Now I understand why the colleagues of the MR call your agreement a French-speaking victory. Quotas for 2024 and subsequent years shall be established using a new method of calculation based on population. Is that the only parameter? How will you do that in Brussels? There is no subnationality there. And what do you do with the German speakers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, you have therefore reached an agreement. But at what cost? This is the least that can be said when we look at the outcome of these negotiations. The agreement is incomprehensible on three points. The first is a commitment the government had already made. This is at least the third or fourth time that you repeat that students who will be released in June 2017 will receive an INAMI number. Nothing new. On the other hand, for the following promotions, you condition the granting of an INAMI number for French-speaking students, while there is an automation on the Dutch-speaking side. You planned that an agreement would have to be observed, namely the introduction of an examination for entry into the French Community. This will be the case in September 2017. And despite that, you keep a sword of Damocles above the Francophone students. Second misunderstanding: the Planning Commission was working objectively on a dynamic cadastre. We really need to acknowledge the remarkable work that she has done. In spite of this, you decide not to define quotas on an objective basis, linked to public health needs, but the government decides to entrust this task to the Court of Auditors, so that they can be defined on a population basis only and without in any way taking into account public health needs. It's obviously incomprehensible. The third problem is the negative smoothing. According to the Commission de planification's estimate of public health needs, 607 annual INAMI issues on the francophone side would be required for students returning to medicine in 2018. However, here you decide to reduce this number to 505, a 15% decrease. Flanders announces that it will have an additional 1,000 students. Minister, how do you explain this double standard between French-speaking and Dutch-speaking students? There will be no conditions for Flemish students. Francophone students have a sword of Damocles above their heads. How do you explain this "two weights, two measures" for patients and doctors? I have no problem with the fact that additional INAMI numbers are granted in Flanders if this meets needs. On the other hand, on the francophone side, needs are clearly identified. There are shortages, but you are reducing the number of INAMI numbers. How can you explain this decision, which is obviously purely political? In the future, public health needs will not be met and the system will be undermined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u23	Minister, you announced it and the government confirmed it: medical and dentistry students who will graduate in 2017 have the guarantee to have an INAMI number. All right! I'm really happy for them, and I want to tell them first. Unfortunately, you have not confirmed that the graduates of 2018, 2019 and 2020 would benefit from this guarantee, while the Wallonia-Brussels Federation has made its part of the way. This was not included in the contract. You have therefore failed to fulfil your commitments to the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. On the other hand, you are saying, in a way, that you are going to first assess what the Federation-organized exam is doing, so you are taking hostage students who have nothing to do with this exam. Indeed, they are already engaged in the curriculum. First question: how do you justify this? Above all, you paid for this agreement with a decision that is really unbearable for those who care about the quality of medicine. From now on, it is not doctors or specialists who will decide on INAMI quotas in the Planning Commission, but the Court of Auditors. Unbelievable! The government has decided that the budgetary objective now prevails over the objective of having a good health care system. This is my second question: how do you justify this decision? Once again, you have not been able to resist your colleagues who do not care about the health of our fellow citizens and who take advantage of them, in addition, to conduct community debates. Question 3: Do you not feel that you are too shy or too tired to defend our social protection in general, and our health care in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I cannot help it. Mrs Onkelinx, when I saw this morning that you were going to ask a question at this stage of the dossier, I thought in all my naivety that you would like to thank the Minister. I thought you were gonna thank her for solving a file that you missed for 20 years. That's what I expected. Of course there is little room for naivety in politics, I should have known. Madam Secretary, if you'll allow me, I'll thank you. Thank you for resolving this dossier after 20 years and listening to our party's vision. The solution is that an entrance exam is finally organized on the French-speaking side. This exam will have to stay and it will have to work. There will be a distribution of the general quotas set by the Federal Government. This will be done according to the only parameter that may apply, in particular the population. Will you explain to me, Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Fonck, how in the name of God it is possible that more doctors per person are needed in Wallonia than in Flanders? There is no explanation for that, and we are moving away from it now. This is finally, once and for all, coming into the law. The total, which has been built up for twenty years, is now being corrected as quickly as possible, only taking into account the viability of the universities. Madam Minister, thank you on behalf of the thousands of Flemish families who have not seen their son or daughter start these studies over the last 20 years. Thank you on behalf of all the doctors, especially in the Rand. Thank you on behalf of all the taxpayers who have been having to pay for overconsumption due to the excessive amount of doctors in Wallonia for years. Thank you, Madam Secretary, on behalf of our party. I just have one question. When will the draft come to Parliament, because I cannot get rid of this dossier quickly enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u25	In this very sensitive political dossier, I thank you, Mrs Van Peel, for the flowers, and you, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Wouters, for the pots. In any case, this government is committed to the continuation of the medical supply planning system. I would like to point out that this decision has indeed been taken in the interests of patients and citizens. We all know that the quality of education of our students and the quality of care provision are important. The condition for granting complementary certificates was the introduction of a robust and effective filter before providing access to basic medical training. "Robuste" means that the filter will remain in the future. "Effective" means that the number of students who start the internship and then increase the medical staff will not exceed the quotas provided. It took Minister Marcourt two and a half years to introduce a French Community entry examination. That's good! Now, the government has given its green light to issue the additional certificates for 2017. If the entrance examination remains and is effective, additional certificates will be issued to students in 2018, 2019 and 2020. The opinion of the Planning Committee will be followed in 2023 for determining the medical quotas for 2023, but also for phasing out the allowance. The federal quota for 2023 is set at 1 445, of which 838 students for the Flemish Community and 607 students for the French Community. To put an end to the excess, it was decided to correct the future quotas for the French Community so that they would reach the minimum number of 505 units - at your time, Mrs Onkelinx, that was 492 - until the total elimination of the surplus of 1,531. When you were in charge of the case, Mrs. Onkelinx, the number was still 3,000. The overnumbers will therefore be phased out. The length of the smoothing will depend on the quotas to be set over the next few years. In determining this threshold, account was taken of the organisation of education and the concerns expressed by the deans. From 2024 onwards, the allocation of global quotas will be adjusted. In the future, they will also be determined after the opinion of the Planning Commission. The only change that will be observed in 2024 is that it will no longer be the latter which will set quotas for the Communities, but the Court of Auditors which will have to rely on the possible increase in providers of care and demographic changes. The distribution key will indeed be determined by the Court of Auditors, but everything else, what is needed to care for the population, remains for the Planning Committee. That is a great improvement which was started at the time under the authority of Mrs Onkelinx. As for Brussels, it is not possible to determine a number of inhabitants per Community and this is why the calculation will be based on pupils in both primary and secondary education. Mrs Fonck, the control system was that the accreditation commissions only accept the traineeship plan, as long as the quotas were respected. However, since the sixth reform of the State, approval of traineeship plans has been the responsibility of the Communities. It was therefore necessary to incorporate a monitoring and follow-up mechanism into federal jurisdiction in order to ensure that quotas were respected. In this context, a legal basis is provided for regulating the certification of quotas by the Health FPS, in order to comply with the quotas. In this way, trainees will only be allowed to train candidates holding this certificate. INAMI allocates it only to candidates with a quota certificate or exemption. Mrs Van Peel, it is indeed good news for the students that there is an agreement. It is also good news for the faculties, for the deans, les doyens, which we have received, by the way. On the other hand, it is bad news for the opposition, especially for someone who, in her capacity as then minister, tried to reach an agreement with her own people for ten years, but never succeeded. I understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. I insist that we are dealing here with Belgian arithmetic. The Planning Committee is talking about a total of 3 000, while we suddenly reach 1 531.Of course, this sudden result is beneficial for the French speakers and I do not understand why they are now honking. It is true, of course, that there is also a thousand extra on the Flemish side. One has to pay attention to overconsumption. You yourself admit that the phasing-out will take 15 years. It will therefore take at least until 2038 before the complete phasing-out will be completed. So, no federalization of health until 2038. That means a stand still until 2038. It is a pity, despite all the promises, that the 60/40 distribution is not maintained. The question will therefore be what will happen from 2024 onwards. I have heard that you are asking for additional advice from the Court of Auditors, which makes calculations in this respect. You also refer to the way in which the distribution key will be worked out for Brussels. I would remind you that the Brussels scale is also included in the Brussels law. In that law, the 80/20 rule applies. I hope you will not touch that historic compromise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u27	Madam Minister, your answer is next to the plaque! You simply repeat the content of the agreement; you do not explain in any way why you apply this double standard to students who are already in medical training and who next year will not be treated in the same way in the North and the South. You do not explain why you suddenly rely on purely demographic reasons and not on the actual health care needs, which have been objected to by the Planning Commission. We know that there are shortages and, if you do not know, come with me and I will show you that, in our hospitals, courses are organised with 40% of the French INAMI numbers granted to foreign European doctors. You create these channels of appeal and, in doing so, you penalize our students. You spoke of "pot", but you, the minister, send a famous pot in the organisation of health care, disrupting their quality and their good organization in relation to the needs of the field. Your responsibility is enormous!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u28	Minister, it is rather strange not to receive answers to her questions. You simply repeated the decision that was made by the government. I see no justification, for example, for moving from the Planning Commission to the Court of Auditors. I don't understand, because you didn't explain it. I am very proud to have worked with the Planning Commission for years, to have increased the number of INAMI numbers, to have put on the table proposals for amendments to address the problems of shortage that we have in the field. You did not answer questions about the entire system. However, I believe that this is a bad system. Earlier, Mr. Reynders and other members of the government said how much they could join and admire a candidate such as Mr. Macron in France. Well, yesterday during the televised debate, Mr Macron announced that France would end the numerus clausus because this system is ineffective, unfair and outdated. This is your policy: ineffective, unjust and outdated!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u29	Mrs Onkelinx, I'm not surprised you don't understand. Nor have you ever understood the federal law that required you to enter an entrance exam. The fact that you are still not aware of it is therefore very understandable in that respect. However, it is an historic agreement. I said that right away. The situation has been distorted for 20 years in governments without the N-VA, but today it is being corrected by a government with the N-VA. This is important for the affordability and quality of our healthcare. Mrs Wouters, I would like to say the following. Of course, there is always a better solution, which you are putting in place, especially the division of health care. You know that we are in favour of this, but I am making a very clear sum. When you were with us, there were 33. Since you left, we're still 33. So it is not possible in this way and the slope chosen today leads, in reality, to a good agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u30	Mr President, Mr Bacquelaine, I really feel that you have a problem with the very important professional category of teachers, whether they are Flemish, Walloon or Brussels. Since the beginning of the legislature, with this government, you have adopted measures that have a very heavy impact on the length of their careers. In doing so, you have already tried to attract and recognize an essential profession for society: to educate our children, to prepare them to be adult citizens, to become the workers of tomorrow, to make our economy work. This particular function deserves separate treatment and recognition, in particular, of the persistence of certain careers. On this subject, we're waiting for you. Bacquelaine is taking tough measures, economic measures that penalize workers, but forgets the compensatory measures. In this case, we are discussing, as you know, in the Committee on Social Affairs the accounting of years of study in the calculation of pensions. The measure you are defending with the government will have a very strong and negative impact on teachers' pensions tomorrow, even if you try to hide it. Ecolo put this question on the table in the Social Affairs Committee and in the Parliament of the French Community. Positive point: you will meet with the three Ministers of Education of the three Communities earlier to discuss with them this reform which involves them as ministers in charge of education. Mr Bacquelaine, what is the status of this meeting? Will it be a concertation? From negotiation, which means that things can change? Or will you proceed, as you did in the Social Affairs Committee, simply with information and simply answer "because!" difficult questions, without any other justification except political justifications? Is there a willingness in the head of the federal government to adjust the shot to save and continue to recognize the essential role of teachers in our society? That's the question I want to ask you now, Mr. Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do meet with the three Ministers of Education today to discuss with them the elements included in the reform of the diploma bonus and the purchase of years of study. This meeting follows in particular a request from the Consultation Committee which took place last week or the week before. Mr Demotte had then asked, on behalf of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, for an explanation of the reform of the purchase of years of study. I heard him that I was at the disposal of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and I expanded the context by inviting the three ministers of education to give them a number of explanations, as requested. Very clearly, we are here in the register of teaching staff which is obviously concerned with the purchase of years of study, since the system will be harmonised and it will be the same for the self-employed, the employees and the civil servants. Civil servants, such as employees and self-employed persons, will be able to continue to buy back their years of study. The free will no longer be available. We have, of course, provided for a long transitional period that allows for the retention of acquired rights for all public service personnel, regardless of the level of authority. A range of transitional measures and special measures have also been planned for teachers to reduce their impact. The Federal Planning Office has been asked to report on the savings it generates over time by 2060. In its report, the Federal Office of the Plan specifically included a sentence for teachers in which it stated that "many teachers have no interest in regularizing their years of study because the length of the career taken into account in calculating their pension exceeds 41 years and 3 months, i.e. the period after which a maximum pension is reached for a period of 55 years". I would point out that we have, of course, had a consultation in Committee A where the federated entities are represented and in the Public Sector Commission of the National Pensions Committee, where the federated entities are also represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u32	Mr Bacquelaine, you are presenting things as logical and without impact. The same report from the Federal Planning Office says that the savings will be 700 million euros. We cannot save 700 million euros without individually impacting tens of thousands of people! In this case, your focus is teachers. This is very clearly stated in the opinion of the Council for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, stressing that there are many teachers among civil servants today and that the vast majority of them are teachers. You don't want to hear that truth. You have accepted this request from the Government of the French Community. You're going to explain, you're not going to confer, you're not going to negotiate. I do not hear on your part a willingness to adapt this reform, and I regret it. As ecologists, we believe that the teaching staff deserves differential treatment!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u33	Mr President, Minister, after Belfius, today we learn that the government is about to sell 25% of its stake in BNP Paribas. Let's not turn around the pot: you are at a budget abyss and you are not able to significantly desend the Belgian state! In doing so, you decide to liquidate our public assets. It's the big liquidation! And no one knows where this is going to stop! The real and only motivation of your decisions is budget based on ideology. No one's fooled, minister! At no time since the beginning of our discussions on privatization issues, we have seen compelling economic reasons. Belfius works well. It guarantees the state a dividend of more than EUR 200 million; Belfius, now a public bank, whose potential to support savers, households, businesses and local authorities is real and is not contested by anyone. Our participation in BNP Paribas allows us not only to be the first shareholder, but also and above all to be a decisive shareholder. Do we want tomorrow, Minister, to be at the mercy of a decision taken in Paris that would rob our country of its jobs and of many economic sites? Should I remind you of what ING did, not so long ago, with unheard of brutality, making you totally powerless? And let it not be said that the Belgian State, even if it sold 25% of its shares, would remain the first shareholder. No one's fooled! You open a door there and you won't close it. We know it and you know it. Minister, do you have a deal with the European Commission: tolerance on the fiscal trajectory against debt reduction and the sale of state assets? Will you sacrifice our assets in Belfius and BNP Paribas on the altar of your budgetary mistakes? How will you guarantee our strategic interests in the future, whether in employment or in support of the economy? I know it bothers you, but you won't stop me from telling you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian State has therefore decided to sell 25% of its shares in BNP Paribas. I'm not going to get you a bad quarrel. You get two billion euros, keep the dividends expected for this year and spend the two billions on debt relief. I have no difficulty in principle with this. Therefore, I will not seek to resolve any ideological dispute here. Having said that, I would like to ask you some substantive questions, starting with questions about timing. Why sell now? I thought I read that you had to come back in a hurry from London. Why? Was a bounty to be seized urgently? I am not entirely convinced of this because the analyses of some specialists show that banking values still suffer from a risk premium and that prices may not have reached their full potential. Therefore, is this sale not premature? In substance, did you not want to review your copy for the attention of the European Commission? Indeed, in terms of the budget, your plan is not entirely convincing. My other question will be about your strategy. What is ultimately your course of action? Do you intend to sell the family jewels on a case-by-case basis, according to the opportunities? It's an approach that could defend itself, but it's rather opportunistic. Rather, I plead for a strategist state. So, what is your strategy, if you have one? This question also arises about the public nature of Belfius. What is the role of the state in the banking sector as it functions today, especially after the financial crisis of recent years? In this perspective, are you going to maintain a state stake in BNP Paribas or are you going to sell all your shares? That is an essential question. I would therefore like answers from the government in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u35	Minister, the previous speakers have already said that today's news was both yesterday and this morning the sale of a quarter of our participation in BNP Fortis. That is a first step in the dismantling of our interest in that bank, I believe. Colleagues, in 2008 the state became the owner of Fortis against will and thanks to the banking crisis. That was sold to BNP Paribas. Since then, we've had these stocks. Of course, banking is not a central task of the government, Mr Laaouej. It is also true that we are now getting a nice dividend on this, ladies and gentlemen, and that that is good for the budget. However, can you be sure that the dividend will remain guaranteed for years? I certainly don't. What if there's a new problem tomorrow? Then you'll blame the Minister for speculating with taxpayers' money on the stock market. After all, if it is true that we have to hold the shares for dividends, we should buy some more. Then let's buy some more bank shares. They give dividends. I do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that that is the intention. After all, we do not buy shares from supermarkets, from gas stations and you name it, because they produce dividends. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very high level of public debt. We must do something about that. We are doing this through a fundamental recovery of the budget, in which we are moving forward year after year, and by reducing that type of participation. Yes, Minister, I hope it is also a signal to the European Commission that we are working on a sound financial policy, as opposed to the time when Mr Laaouej's party was in charge. I hope that we will be able to re-use large infrastructure projects such as the Oosterweel connection. We urgently need such projects, which will give a much greater economic return. I come to my questions, Minister. Can you tell us if there is any further reduction of the share planned? What is the impact of the reduced dividend on the budget? Do you believe that the money released can be used for investment in infrastructure projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u36	Mr Minister, last night there was indeed an important transaction on the stock exchange. You have sold on behalf of the Belgian State for more than 2 million euros of shares of BNP Paribas, so that our participation has fallen to 7.8 %. Some of us will remember the moment when nine years ago almost unanimously approved the rescue of a number of banks through loans. Those loans fundamentally increased our sovereign debt, which was necessary to save those banks. Most of them were convinced at the time that it was not a core task and that it was the government's responsibility to participate in banks. A reduction in our participation in these banks therefore occurred from the moment an added value was realised. By the way, we have heard quite a bit of contradiction over the last few months. Apparently, the majority of people do give the Belgian State an added value, while the entrepreneurs are actually given very little added value. However, the commitment is the same: entrepreneurship, growing and trying to achieve added value. However, we have managed to achieve an added value on a partial sale of our participation in BNP Paribas. That is a good thing, Minister, and we support it. We are indeed in favour of reducing this participation. We do have some questions for you. Why do you decide to cut by 25%? In the end, it is clear to us that we should not hold participation in that bank. What is the element of strategic importance? That's what I'd like to hear from you. Can you confirm that the amount will be used to reduce public debt? After all, the money we injected at that time has not yet been recovered. I think it is very important for the citizens that the operation should result in the reduction of our debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u37	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everyone remembers that 2008 was a darkest year, with the financial crisis coming. Should we underline how lucidly and courageously the government and the Minister of Finance intervened to save the banks in 2008? Today, everyone can judge. Back then, saving the banks meant saving the country, Mr Gilkinet. If today, with ten years of hindsight, you could not understand it, then we can ask ourselves a lot of questions about your economic lucidity. Saving the banks was crucial! This required a significant participation which should now be reconsidered. Let us not turn around the pot, as my esteemed colleague Mr Laaouej says! Minister, congratulations on your decision. This is a good decision, which reflects the government agreement. Belgium's position in this bank does not change in any way; it remains the first shareholder. We are strongly committed, at the banking level. In fact, we are highly exposed to a market, in a sector where we are most exposed, in all sectors. We still own 100% of Belfius and remain the first shareholder of BNP Paribas. It is, moreover, the realization of a beautiful financial operation. We're getting out of it with added value. Cherry on the cake: you were able to keep the dividend for 2017. It's a good financial operation. We must rejoice and congratulate you on releasing two billion. This operation will certainly give us credibility in the eyes of Europe. Part of this money will certainly contribute to the country's deleveraging. With my group, I hope that it will also contribute to the colossal investment pact of 30 billion for an economic recovery, unique in Europe, which was decided just a few months ago. Mr Finance Minister, my question is: what are you going to do with those two billions? Will they be used in part for this investment pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u38	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take you to 2008, a particularly turbulent financial year. The then government said it would invest heavily in the banks, including Fortis, because it did not want to leave the small saver and the Belgian economy in the cold. The then Prime Minister, Yves Leterme, argued that, if we handled it properly, we would still be making money from the operation. That was received at the time, and it was said that it was difficult to prove. Well, today that statement is being made. Today, it has been proven that the dossier has been properly handled and added value has been achieved. It only shows that one can sometimes be right in politics too early. One-off sales should lead to an improvement in our debt position and the capping of our debt mountain. But with previous sales, there was a lot of criticism. Some even talked about gratuite day politics, Minister. I hope that everyone now realises that such statements are outdated and that it is a unique opportunity for our country to end our debt mountain. Colleagues, a sales file is extremely delicate. You will remember how people hysterically reacted to every communication in the Fortis file. I find it strange that such a confidential file is communicated so quickly. The government had barely deliberated and the case was already on the radio, which was a big risk. Minister, it would be interesting to know the chronology. Even more important is to look at the proceeds. What shall we do with that? Is there also a possibility, in addition to deleveraging debt, after negotiations with the European Commission, to inject that money back into the economy, for example by investing in rail infrastructure? The Prime Minister mentioned room for manoeuvre. It is good to hear from the Minister today whether there is a little room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u39	Minister, much has already been said. Nine years ago, we took that participation in order to save the banks, but above all the people's savings. It makes sense, if that happens with taxpayers' money, that it should not be the ambition to maintain that participation. For this reason, sp.a has been arguing for a long time to abandon our participation in BNP-Paribas. You have our support for that. We would ask you to go further in that regard. A quarter is good, but the rest doesn't need to be stopped for us either. We don't see what our interests are in that. In fact, we have never had anything to say in the past until today. We have heard you speak of a strategic importance, but I do not see it. Would you mind explaining that for me? That's my first question. For sp.a, participation in BNP-Paribas may indeed be reduced rapidly. Secondly, yesterday I heard you declare that you will spend the money on reducing public debt. I agree with that. I heard the Prime Minister say this morning that investment is also important. I agree with that, too. It's important to bring down the government debt. After all, we pay an interest in this and if we no longer have to pay it in the future, it will create room in the budget. It is therefore a good thing that the money is being used to reduce public debt. However, important investments are also needed. A few weeks ago, the government announced investments of 30 billion to 2030. I conclude from that that the government itself realized that she did not have the money. You will receive our support that the money should serve for the deleveraging and a piece for investment. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u40	Yes, you can. Listen to what I'm saying. With a further reduction in participation, more money is coming in and we can do so. Minister, sp.a pleads for both. I would like to hear from you, first of all, why you want to keep the participation at almost 8%. Secondly, have you already checked with Europe about the possible use of money, not for deleveraging, but for investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u41	Mr President, I would like to remind a number of parties that our sovereign debt has increased by 10% to 15%, as a result of the rescue of both Dexia and Fortis. The so-called Dexia parties will know what I mean. If we are talking about the past, I would like to call for the amnesia that is being displayed here today to be omitted. It is shameful to the people, who have had to swallow the heavy pill of the increase all these years with very heavy savings. So a little modesty in that area would be a credit to them. (Protests from the majority's benches) It is what it is, ladies and gentlemen, that is a short-term operation, a one-shot measure, which should bring down some of the increased public debt. What intrigues me is the vision behind it. I read in De Tijd, Minister, that only a piece of the shares is sold, because there is a strategic interest in holding the rest of the shares. BNP Paribas Fortis is indeed the largest bank in our country, with 18 000 employees. At the moment, Mr Van Biesen, ladies and gentlemen, we have two directors in that bank, in particular Mr Van Broekhoven, of Open Vld-signature, and Mr Tilmant, of MR-signature. If politicians of the majority parties here say that politicians do not want to do banking, then I would also like to call on Mr Algoed, the head of the cabinet of Mr Muyters, who was appointed director of KBC. That's what it's about, of course. What vision is behind the participation in that bank? That vision hasn't been around for years. Our government leaders haven't done anything about it. BNP Paribas comes year after year, and yesterday again, in the news with scandals. Once again, a file was opened by the Justice Department in the United States. At the end of last year, a thousand employees were made redundant and 2 billion in dividends were transferred to France in Belgium. When you state that you have a strategic interest in that bank, I say to you that you are right, Minister, but what are you doing with it? You didn't do anything with it. The question is, what are you going to do with it after this? I would like an answer to that question. You are right, we must use that money to reduce our public debt, but the government has communicated it has no other option but to do something about mobility. What is it now? What will you do? Will you invest, which is indeed much needed, or will the money linea recta go to the reduction of our sovereign debt? Which one's it gonna be? Is your colleague from Open Vld right or will the Prime Minister effectively invest in mobility, for example in the distressed SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the government finally decided to sell 25% of its shares in BNP Paribas. That transaction reduces our share in the shareholdership of BNP Paribas from 10.3 to 7.8 %. I think I can speak in all modesty about a very successful operation. On this occasion, I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the team, because it is a whole team that has worked on this, including the Prime Minister's cabinet, to ensure that the transaction is done as it has been. It has been referred to several times, but I would like to say the following in order to get the figures straight. The accumulated participation in BNP Paribas is, of course, the direct result of that unlikely year 2008 with the biggest financial crisis since the Second World War and the loss of Fortis, if the government had not intervened. It paid 9.4 billion for Fortis' shares, which were then exchanged for 121 million shares of BNP Paribas shortly after. That is a simple rule of three: we paid EUR 58 per share for those shares of BNP Paribas. Last night and last night, 31.2 million shares were sold at a net price of 62.40 euros. Gross price was 66.15 euros. The difference between the gross price and the net price I have just mentioned can be explained for two reasons: the commission paid to the investment banks which have carried out all the necessary transactions; the dividend planned for this year, i.e. EUR 2.7 per share. What type of transaction have we done? We have made a forward sale in such a way that we can collect the dividend, the effective issue of which will take place on 13 June 2017. That was included in the budget. In that respect, therefore, nothing changes the budget. Taking into account the elements communicated by the network, it is therefore a net amount of EUR 62,40. This means an added value of EUR 137 million compared to what we paid in 2008 and a gross revenue of EUR 2 billion. These transactions are part of the implementation of the government agreement, the aim of which is to promote, in an optimal and intelligent manner, participation in the financial sector, without losing sight of the financial, economic and societal context. It is as valid for BNP Paribas as it is for Belfius and all federal government participations. By designing the operation, there are three positive consequences for the government and for the community and taxpayers through enlargement. Firstly, debt write-off can be realised, which is obviously one off. I do not see how this can be done differently. The only way to reduce the debt in structural terms is to reduce the structural deficit. Secondly, our risk in the financial sector - which is in the federal portfolio - has been substantially reduced. Thirdly, as already indicated, the dividend for 2017 remains in its entirety as recorded in the budget. Of course, we have the prospect that for the years afterwards, when the dividend resulting from the transaction in question will indeed be smaller, the interest burden on the government debt, given the deleveraging, will also be lower. How is the profit used? The European rules are what they are. The profits will therefore initially have to go to deleveraging. Everyone here in the hemisphere knows that we are currently doing so at various levels not only in Belgium, but also in other countries we are having an intense discussion with the European Commission on the way in which investment, such as public investment and infrastructure investment, is handled in this very large budgetary and accounting framework of Europe. I am convinced that this operation will help us in these discussions. This is also one of the added values of the transaction. What impact does this transaction have on our representation in BNP Paribas? As indicated, we are reducing the size of our participation once again in accordance with the government agreement, but we remain, without a doubt, the largest individual shareholder. As it stands, the likelihood is very real that we will also retain the representation of two independent directors. Mrs Almaci, I would remind you that Mr Van Broekhoven was replaced a year ago, but that is a detail. Why didn't you sell more shares? Simply and simply because if we had put more shares on the market, we would not have obtained the current price. On communication, I can tell you that yesterday, after the decision in the nuclear cabinet, there was a leak on Bloomberg. Where that comes from, I don't know. There was also a soon-to-be message on De Tijd. We also communicated at that time. The moment the leak appeared on Bloomberg, everything was hermetically sealed. The volumes that would be sold were fixed by the technique we chose. The price, EUR 62,40, was also fixed at that time. The backstop formula that we had built in, the fee for this is for a piece in the committee to which I referred earlier, so that, whatever was said and whoever would leak through any press agency, nothing could be changed about the transaction. The train had left and all the parameters were fixed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u43	Your answers, Minister, support us in the idea that you have opened up the season of large liquidations. It's all for sale, don't worry about the amateurs! Minister, should I remind you that budgetary fear is very bad advice? Obviously yes! If you are there, it is first of all because of your bad political choices. I tell you, but also to the MR, who is co-responsible for this Berezina! You've dug the holes and now you have to fill them, it's as simple as that! With your decisions, however, you will continue to dig these holes! What you lose in dividend revenue will not compensate for what you gain marginally in lower interest expense. In the current context, just for BNP Paribas, the federal budget could lose around 70 million a year, plus the 60 million we will lose due to the sale of half of Belfius. That is the reality of the figures, Minister! In total, there will be an annual loss of EUR 130 million which could further affect the structural deficit of the Belgian State. The most serious thing is that, gradually, with your decisions, we will be even more at the mercy of the diktats of the financial markets and foreign staffs, who will have no scruples, as ING has done, to saber in employment and in the agencies. Minister, the bill for your mismanagement is getting bigger every day, and it's always the people who are laughing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. You gave us technical information about the operation's parameters. Mr. Scourneau stated that this was a good decision because it was included in the government statement. I will be more nuanced by saying that it is not because it appears in the statement that it is necessarily bad! However, in order to be totally convincing, I would have liked to hear from you about the two things I asked you about. First of all, as far as timing is concerned, Mr. Scourneau replied! He said that this operation would make us credible in the eyes of Europe. I do believe that the timing is dictated by the budgetary difficulties you are experiencing. Then I asked you about the strategy. Now I'm very disappointed. You told us about the maintenance of two administrators. Of which, but this is not a strategy in relation to the banking sector! And, above all, I have heard contradictions between Mr. Van Biesen, who says that for the Open Vld, we must get rid of all the stakes, and those of your press release, in which you say that we must maintain long-term strategic participation. Clearly, violins must be granted among the majority! In the meantime, we still lack a strategic vision of the evolution of the banking sector and the role of the state in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Since the banking crisis, the financial exposure of the Belgian State to the financial sector has been enormous. I therefore believe that it is wise to reduce exposure at the right moments. Colleagues, in June 2016 the price of BNP Paribas was 35.27 euros, today it is 66 euros. I think now is the right time to cash in some of that participation. We can do that now even with a slight profit. It has never been the core task of the State to bank. I welcome your reply that we will reduce that share further in the long term. However, it is the responsibility of the State to ensure security, social security, education and so on. We can only do that if our public finances are in order. We'll take care of it. Mr Laaouej, if the input for your speech comes from the Institut Vandervelde, I would advise you to sell it too, because there is little point. I have a short message for Mr Vanvelthoven. That 2 billion revenue for the State is not an increase in the tax burden.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is clear to everyone that this amount cannot be used in Europe in any other way than to reduce public debt, but the improved position of our country, both in budgetary terms and in terms of public debt, will give rise to discussions and an improved climate in the debate on whether or not to include in the budgets of the major investments for which both the federal level and the regions and the Communities in that country stand. Secondly, I did not understand what you said about the financial transaction, as the previous colleague understood. You have said that we are maintaining this today, but it is obviously the intention to continue the transactions at the appropriate time and thus to reduce our participation in BNP Paribas. Thirdly, there is an exceptional difference in the statements made by the Flemish and French-speaking socialists. Mr Vanvelthoven rightly says that this participation must be phased out, while Mr Laaouej apparently invented a new kind of socialism from 1 May, the socialism of'save dividends' and'save capitalism'. That seems to be the new message that the Socialists are bringing here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u47	Mr President, an act of rescue of public necessity in 2008 allowed, less than ten years later, to provide a return for the state. In short, this will result in a good operation. I don't understand why some people get into the niche when in 2013, in an operation quite similar to the one we're seeing today, they were very measured, if not very discreet. Mr. Minister of Finance, this is a good operation. It inspires our confidence, because these two billions will be well used. We hope that they will be devoted to investment in a significant way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u48	Minister, I am pleased that you acknowledge that the government at the time has done a very good job on the whole, as the current government has done in this case over the past few days, with the exception of the very slight leak. The deal is leaking before it is concluded: this has led to really irresponsible risks being taken and the last word has certainly not yet been said. All's well that ends well. This afternoon they talked about flowerpots and flowers. In this file are indeed pots broken and it would certainly adorn some to still hand over flowers. After all, we are looking at the totality of the banking files, with KBC, Belfius and Fortis. The government, then led by CD&V, has taken responsibility with many partners, in the coalition, with the staff of the banks, with the taxpayer. It is three times cashing, three times in a row a positive result, and that may also be underlined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u49	Mr President, Mr Klaps' reply does indicate that a paragraph has apparently been added to the N-VA debate sheets. Every time we speak, something must be said about a socialist, even if it does not make sense. It's gotten a little funny. Minister, a few things about your answer. Firstly, I hear the Prime Minister, the French-speaking Liberals, saying that we should invest, but the Flemish Liberals say that we should not do so. A little bizarre. Secondly, I asked you, Minister, whether the present participation is still of strategic importance for our country, because you said so in the press. You didn't answer that. I have heard you say that it would not have been wise to put the whole package on the market at the same time. That may be a valid argument, but it is another argument. I should like to draw your attention, Minister, to the fact that you agree with me that we need to reduce this participation further in the future. I would encourage you to do so. Surprise us and build up that participation as much as possible in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u50	Mr Minister, between all the masquerading figures, it is important to give one thing to a number of blundering colleagues: this is actually a zero operation. It was an operation that had to be carried out, an operation that weighed very heavily on this country and its citizens and which has led to a very severe banking crisis that has followed a severe round of savings, which still means that our public debt is very high and that we have to pay more interest charges. So we're gonna end up in this file today with a near-zero operation. I am sorry that this zero operation is still valid almost ten years after the date when it comes to your vision of sending those shares. We've already charged that in Belfius' file. You confirm that we are holding two directors, but not a word about how they will guarantee the safety of our country, about how they will ensure that this does not happen to us anymore. Not a word about that, not a vision. The largest bank in Belgium, in which we have two directors: no vision. A bank that continues to fall into all old mistakes, scandal after scandal, which continues to invest in fossil fuels, weapons, conflicts and so on. That is incredibly regrettable. We continue to advocate investment. Today there was a European Commissioner here who mentioned the depravable state of our air quality. He asked me to do something about the company car system. We are waiting for SNCB's investment. This would be a coherent vision for a positive approach to mobility and air quality in our country. I'll wait for it. Our country craves it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u51	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we can only welcome the agreement reached in the National Joint Committee on the holding of social elections in the SNCB Group. I would like to congratulate those who took on their responsibilities and contributed to the conclusion of this agreement after many months of negotiations: the representatives of the unions and management and you, Minister. This is a fundamental change that is emerging by 2018. It firmly places the social dialogue within the Belgian rail on the road to modernity, responsibility and efficiency of services to the public. These social elections will ensure greater representativeness and greater involvement of workers. This new dynamic will also benefit commuters, those who rely on railways every day to get to their workplaces or learning places. This important step has been taken, what about the following, Minister, by the time these first social elections are held in the SNCB in December 2018? Can you clarify the real impact of these elections on the quality of the social dialogue within the railway group?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to note that railway undertakings and trade union organisations have quickly reached an agreement on the organisation of social elections within the group. In committee, I was told it was impossible to organize in eighteen months. They were able to do it in six months. I met them and congratulated them yesterday, at the conclusion of the National Joint Committee. In a few months, the law of 20 July 2016 becomes a reality. It's a first for a public company. The social elections will take place next year, in full transparency, according to the new organisation agreed. The draft was adopted unanimously by the National Joint Committee. This is a major step towards a more modern, radically forward-looking railway group. The elections will make it possible to strengthen democracy within the railway group, since workers, whether affiliated or not, will finally be able, genuinely and secretly, to choose their representatives. This will undoubtedly strengthen social dialogue. From a technical point of view, two legislative changes will be necessary, at the request of the interlocutors. They relate in particular to the protection of candidates in elections. They asked me, I made a commitment to do so, and I will do so as soon as possible. This is a historic step in the government's desire to continue to modernize public enterprises. How great my satisfaction is when I see that this stage is accompanied by the unanimity of the interlocutors, bosses and unions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u53	Minister, you will obviously be able to count on the MR Group to support you in the development of these new legislative amendments. I have no doubt that my opposition colleagues, who almost supported me last week on rural transport, will follow us this time to ensure that we have the same unanimity as the social partners have managed to achieve for a better. It is a matter of strengthening the Belgian railway group because, as you often recall, in 2023 there will be major changes. If we are to ensure that this railway group is strong and can continue to provide public service in Belgium, we will have to move forward. Thank you, minister; let's continue!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u54	The sp.a. had provided his support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u55	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u56	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: David Clarinval, Goedele Uyttersprot, Patricia Ceysens, Leen Dierick, Egbert Lachaert, Vincent Scourneau, Benoît Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u57	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Francis Delpérée and Mrs Leen Dierick, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u58	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this 28 March, in the Committee on Commercial Law, the proposal which I tabled with colleagues Uyttersprot, Ceysens, Dierick, Lachaert, Scourneau and Friart was voted by a majority, with the Socialist Group abstaining. It aims to clean up economic activity in Belgium by improving and widening the scope of the procedure for the dissolution of fictitious, phantom or disinherent societies that still exist today. We need to know that there is a market for second-hand resale of so-called ghost companies. For several years, commercial courts have found a significant number of these prepack companies, bought for various fraudulent purposes. It is often a matter of avoiding, in the head of their new managers, the control of the enterprise window over the existence in society of basic management knowledge and other compulsory professional skills, which obviously leads to unfair competition vis-à-vis companies that fulfil this obligation. On the other hand, this system is used to set up companies that appear for illegal purposes, such as fraud or terrorism. You add to this the expansion of the phenomenon of fictitious seats, namely the companies that install their registered office at an address, without the knowledge of the real owner of the building. Finally, we have also seen a large number of companies in disinherence. Indeed, in 2013 alone, there were 140,000 companies that had not filed their annual accounts. In the unanimous opinion of the institutions consulted, be it the FEB or the Institute of Accountants, but also the tax advisers, it is useful to provide for a rapid procedure for the dissolution of these companies which pollute the economic activity of our country and endanger companies in good faith that respect the law. This procedure had to be carried out so far by the prosecutor's office, which did not carry out this work, as it had other priorities. This role is now assigned by the proposal to the Chamber of Commerce, which is the most equipped for this purpose. However, in order to avoid, by means of this new procedure, the dissolution of companies which are experiencing temporary difficulties for various reasons, such as the difficult family situation of a manager, a complicated state of health or the negligence of the accountant, many well-considered beacons have been put in place in consultation with the actors on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u59	Mr Clarinval, in your original bill, the time limit from which dissolution could be requested - in the event of an absence of the annual accounts - was two or three years, unless I erred. Then, as the discussions progressed and on the basis of various and varied amendments, this period was reduced to seven months after the end of the accounting year. Several hearings seemed to indicate that the delay seemed too short. In this regard, you referred to the representatives of the employer and the Institute of Accountants, which considered that a period of seven months was too short. That is why I would like to know the reasons for your development in this matter, between your original bill and the current text with an amendment to the N-VA - in this case Mr. Van de Velde, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u60	Mr Laaouej, in all honesty, I confirm that we originally planned a three-year period, which was probably too long. After all these discussions, we finally opted for a shorter period of time. This discussion took place within the majority. We consider that it is only where appropriate that the seven-month deadline will be used. It is not to be expected that any company that has forgotten to file its accounts for a week will immediately be referred to a court of law. No, it is a faculty that is offered to the Chambers of Inquiry to deal with cases that they have identified. In the present case, this will be an additional reason. Our will is not to set off a witch hunt. The real aim of this reform is to enable societies in difficulty to be put back on the right path thanks to the supervision of the Chamber of Inquiry and, of course, to be able to eliminate several phantom or fictitious societies established for illegal or, in any case, obscure reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u61	Mr. Clarinval, Mr. Van Hees asked to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u62	Mr Clarinval, since it was the N-VA that introduced the amendment, was this reduction in the deadline following the case of Zuhal Demir, whose legal company had been liquidated because it was not returning its annual accounts? Is it on that basis? Can you enlighten me on this, Mr. Clarinval?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u63	Mr Van Hees, I do not know the case of the law firm you are referring to, but I will not fail to immerse myself in the literature with regard to it. I assure you, however, that this is not the case that guided us in our choice. It is an internal reflection with groups of the majority. Mr Laaouej, I recognize that this is a change from the initial position we had. Finally, it is no worse to give the signal that we can continue, from the first day, if necessary. But we must not give the impression either that everything that is going to be late by a week because its accountant is ill or because the manager has had difficulties will be immediately prosecuted for a dissolution. That's really not the point. It is an option which will be given to the court to be able precisely to seize companies. This will be an additional reason to fight fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u64	I understand you. Finally, you consider that the opinions given by the people we interviewed (economic representatives, representatives of the number professionals, accountants and others) are not well founded and that, in your opinion, the concerns they may have expressed would not stand up to the analysis. But in your heart, Mr. Clarinval, do you not think that this sudden change in time – indeed, going from three years to seven months, it is quite spectacular – creates the risk that, in the end, companies which, in fact, by accident or for very praiseworthy or legitimate causes, have not been able to deposit their annual accounts within the deadlines, will, at one point, be subject to a disproportionate sanction? This, all the more so since the legal system incorporates a whole series of variables of interpretation by the judge on a whole series of notions, i.e. subjectivity, certainly linked to the context, while still being subjectivity. Don't you think you've created too much uncertainty in the device you put in place? Therefore, the seven-month deadline does not seem to be a time limit that indicates whether we are dealing with a fictitious society, a ghost society or a society in dispossession. That's how you introduced the point. Did you introduce the point by talking about phantom, fictional or disinherited societies? As far as I know, a company which, for example, did not, for the first time, deposit its accounts after seven months is not necessarily a fictitious company, in dispossession. Mr Borsus, I wrote to the Union neutral des indépendants to ask them for their opinion on the bill. I haven't had an answer yet. It's a little late now to write to others, since we're going to vote. But I would remind you that I had requested hearings from the Walloon Union of Enterprises and other interlocutors. That was refused to me. I would still be curious, Mr. Borsus, to know your opinion. You are the minister in charge of middle classes, SMEs. You claim to do a lot for the independents. I imagine that my colleagues in your committee have an opportunity to discuss this with you. What do you think of this bill? Do you adhere to it? Don't you think seven months is a brutal change? I just want to remind you that the original proposal was three years. I have tabled an amendment. It is true that three years is far too long. But seven months is too short. Perhaps there was a need to reflect on an interim deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u65	I'll reassure you, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u66	One moment, Mr Van de Velde also asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u67	Mr Laaouej, we have had this discussion very extensively in committee. I will come back to that later. I think you're losing sight of something. It is not the case that the seven-month period is the mandatory period to intervene; that is the period from which action can be taken. Any interested party who looks at the company may see whether the statutory obligation to deposit an annual accounts after the closure of the financial year has been fulfilled. If this is not met, he can check if there are other flashing lights, such as bills that are not paid. Today you are looking at this legislative initiative from a direction. You're looking at the one who's late in filing his financial statements. There is, of course, a whole economical fabric around it. The whole economic fabric depends on a number of legal obligations. If a company fails to comply with these obligations, and perhaps at the same time is late in payment and is doing a number of things that are not so neat, then one should be able to intervene. That's what we do. We give every entrepreneur the opportunity to be summoned three times, for example, in the event of incidents. That is more than enough to allow a correction to be made in favour of society. After all, let us not forget that a company is a social contract, a relationship of trust with other entrepreneurs and the government. What else will the government base its tax assessment on? How will this be organized if there is no financial statement? How are we going to certify this in one way or another? You're in favour of having companies run for a few years. Over time, we will then be able to determine whether or not they have gone too far. And we don't want that. In this bill we offer the opportunity to put things right. That's important. In this way, not every entrepreneur immediately finds himself in a situation where he has to stop. On the contrary! We're giving that entrepreneur a chance to set things right. On the other hand, we give stakeholders and the prosecution the opportunity to intervene very quickly. That is the big difference with the past, when after three years and seven months the company numbers were simply deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u68	Last week we received a bill from Minister Geens dealing with insolvency. It also contains a series of provisions designed to encourage, support or even make mandatory preventive measures in the case of an undertaking or economic activity which is in poor health and an entrepreneur who is unable to fulfil certain obligations. And here we are facing a bill that will be passed a few weeks before this more comprehensive bill. Minister Geens is not listening, but I would be interested to know what will happen to this bill when we pass the new bill. I fully share the objective of this bill, which is to fight against dormant companies with appropriate measures and to help those who are in difficulty in order to avoid bankruptcies and to combat fraud. However, I would like to know how the mechanisms that are being implemented respect the small entrepreneur and the small independent who are much more fragile and encounter much more difficulties in defending themselves against measures, outside actors, judicial decisions and investigations, unlike the larger companies that have management, accounting and management teams at their service. Do you not think that this proposal could further weaken the little one in difficulty compared to the big one and/or the fraudster, who often has the means to develop suitable engineering?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u69	Mr President, we must address the speaker, so I will not speak directly to Mr. Van de Velde. But what I'm going to say to Mr. Clarinval will also include answers to Mr. Van de Velde. We obviously share these objectives. I have said this explicitly in committee and I will refer it back to you later. It is essential to fight against fictitious, disinherent societies and against ghost societies. This is a real problem of unfair competition. This is a problem for creditors, whether private or public. In short, it is a distortion of our economic fabric and there is indeed a need to combat this phenomenon effectively. I'll even go further. In the discussions in the Committee on Finance, I regularly raise the problem of abuse of legal persons. Some commercial legal structures are companies that are used for fraudulent purposes. It also exists and we have seen it in large cases of tax evasion. So there's a real problem. The question is what proportionate mechanism is in place to achieve these objectives. In other words, it must not jeopardize legitimate and vital economic interests. As Mrs Gerkens rightly says, all this will never apply to large companies that have accountants' staff, or large trustees who look after their interests and who, in any case, will always be in order from the point of view of the annual accounts being deposited. In fact, this fabric of very small, small and medium-sized enterprises remains, which can be subject to the hazards of life. Life short, in reality, but sometimes also economic life, which, at some point, may lead them to fail to deposit annual accounts. For the rest, Mr. Van de Velde, you mentioned the public administrations. When you do not file your annual accounts, the tax administration has a bazooka called ex officio taxation. On the basis of the VAT listings of suppliers and customers, it may establish a profit which it will tax unless there is evidence to the contrary. In other words, there is a reversal of the burden of proof. This leads the company to have to prove that in reality the profit is lower. It's a first element. The tax administration may also, for failure to report, reject recoverable losses; this is a particularly heavy penalty. There is still a whole collection of administrative sanctions. The tax administration is armed and equipped. Second element: ONSS. I think there are people here who know the business world. You are late to pay your social contributions: ONSS comes to you to claim them without delay, with the means that are its own. It's the same for the professional discount; a whole series of other public administrations that you owe money to do so. In other words, as far as the interests of the State are concerned, procedures exist. Then I come to the private creditors. It is true that a company that does not deposit its annual accounts fails to meet its accounting obligations. It also misses one of the reasons for filing annual accounts, namely the information and protection of third parties. However, private creditors may resort to a wide range of common law procedures enabling them to recover their dues. That means you don't have to wait three years to be able to claim the money you're owed. First, there may also be a break in trade relations, if any. In short, there is already a whole series of procedures under ordinary law or public procedures, of an administrative nature, to react to a company that not only does not deposit its accounts, but also fails to pay what it owes to public and private creditors. Here we are talking about the problem of the failure to deposit annual accounts, with the sanction that may be the consequence. This is the question of the dissolution procedure requested from the commercial court. Of course, the seven-month deadline is not a time limit. This is a time limit from which it is possible to initiate the procedure. However, what is possible can be made effective. Moreover, the subjective conditions that you have introduced into the system, relying on the wisdom and sovereign appreciation of the judge, allow different practices from one judicial district to another. The judges' sovereign assessments may vary according to criteria they have determined. In other words, they will have to make case law. It will depend on the benevolence, or not, of the judge to whom the person is confronted. You indicate that on three occasions, the person has the opportunity to be heard. We wanted an obligation to be heard. That's the least I can do. From the moment you shorten the time, the hearing must take place as quickly as possible, allowing the person to make his or her arguments known. This might have made it possible to compensate for the shortening of the deadline. But here too, you didn't follow us. I say this clearly: yes, we must fight against these fictitious or disinherited societies. But I repeat: the mechanism that you are putting in place is particularly unbalanced and it seems to me very far from the original bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u70	Mr President, I will try to answer all the questions that have been asked to me. Mr Laaouej, it is true that we did not hear the neutral Union for Independents and other groups that had been proposed by each other, but we did organise hearings. We have not been able to hear everyone, but we have, it seems to me, heard the main actors or protagonists. Colleagues, with regard to small SMEs, be reassured, the MR is particularly attentive to these companies because, as you have rightly said, they require more attention than large companies that have more means, particularly administrative and legal, to defend themselves. So be reassured, even though it is true that we have not been able to hear everyone. Having said that, and I am speaking here too to Mrs Gerkens, I am not as worried about risks as you are. Indeed, we have provided several safeguards in the text for companies that encounter a problem, whether it is the manager who is ill, whether it is the accountant who encounters difficulties. We are very attentive to these school cases. [[These safeguards relate to the procedure.]] I'll call them back later. Another element seems reassuring to me, it is the role of the investigation chamber that responds to the disproportionary argument, Mr. Laaouej. The text contributes, in fact, to a genuine accountability of the Board of Inquiry. As you know, with the law on the judicial reorganization procedure, we have given important powers to the investigative chambers, which will now have more latitude, more power, more autonomy to actually play their role. And what is that role, Mrs. Gerkens? This is a preventive role, in some cases, but above all accompaniment and rail clearance. The Investigation Chamber shall consist of consular judges. These are people who belong to the sector, who are not there to kill businesses, but to sort out "the good grain of the tare", if I may say so. They will clearly identify the ghost societies that obviously need to be quickly eliminated because they are toxic to the economy. I could cite the example of an accountant from the province of Luxembourg who had made his clients believe that he was depositing their accounts when he was no longer doing his job at all. A whole series of customers found themselves crumbled. It would be unfortunate for companies to be victims of such an accountant. An apple beer dealer recently contacted me to tell me that filing his annual accounts was too expensive, so he didn't do it anymore. The Board of Inquiry will be able to sort out situations that require a quick shutdown and people who simply need to be re-adjusted. Pedagogical and preventive work will have to be carried out towards these SMEs which are sometimes next to the nails. That is why, Mrs Gerkens, the preventive role you are referring to, I see it in the Chamber of Inquiry. Consular judges are familiar with the business world. Their mission will be more to accompany than to punish. Mr Laaouej, we are dealing with legal proceedings. If, unfortunately, the safeguards are insufficient and an unfortunate undertaking which was not to be dissolved has been allowed to pass, it can always bring an appeal and the machine can start. It is true that this costs and causes additional worries, but it is still a filter that it will be possible to activate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u71	With regard to this unfortunate society which is caught up in the nets but which should not be found there, this means that it is assigned to the courts, that it has to hire a lawyer, which generates costs, etc. You say if she loses, she can still appeal. But who will be responsible for the legal costs? Consider the case of a small entrepreneur. He will still have to bear these costs when it has been shown that his accountant has fallen ill or what I know... and that finally he is not responsible for what happens to him. You'll tell me that for a divorce, we still have a division of responsibilities at least. And to this one, we will also ask to pay the costs of justice! Could you not introduce an amendment to the effect that, in these different cases, it is not responsible for the costs of justice? There's still time. What do you think, Mr. Clarinval?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u72	Mr Laaouej, what happens today in the case of this unfortunate entrepreneur who has managed to pass through all the filters and who, in the end, is the victim of an accountant who is not up to the situation? As this entrepreneur runs a small company, he works every day. It is therefore not he who will verify in the Monitor whether his accounts have been published. One day, a judicial officer comes to his door and announces to him that such an organization, for example the ONSS, is charging a lot of costs because the accountant has not done his job. Therefore, what must a company that is experiencing such a situation do for the time being? She will also have to pay arrears and legal fees. That is why I would prefer the Chamber of Inquiry to act as a guarantor. If she has failed to do so, the head of the company will have to bring an action himself. Of course, it will cost him a lawyer, but we know that it is possible, in this type of procedure, to hire lawyers who are not too expensive. In the end, these costs of justice will be immeasurably less than if he had to defend himself by selling his property because he was not in order with the legislation. In short, these costs will be a lesser evil. Mrs Gerkens also asked me about the concordance of this text with the 900-page pavement that Minister Geens generously presented to us last week. I can assure you, Mrs Gerkens, that we have worked closely with the minister's office to ensure that these texts are fully consistent and do not duplicate them. Therefore, they will be integrated into the insolvency reform proposed by the Minister. I'm going back to the thread of my argument. I'll explain the procedure quickly, because we've already talked a lot about it. Two ways are possible. Mr Laaouej referred to the first, namely the absence of the annual accounts. In this case, the action for dissolution is brought by any interested party, for example an unpaid creditor who hopes that his claim will be paid, or by the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this case, the summoned company will be heard by the court, which will have the obligation to grant it a period of regularization of at least three months. Very quickly, the court will realize the type of society it is dealing with: either a ghost society, a society in difficulty or a society that is experiencing temporary neglect. Depending on the circumstances and the case, the court will determine whether this three-month period is sufficient. Nothing prevents him, for example, if the manager suffers from a serious illness which does not allow him to meet his obligations within this period of time, to grant him a longer period of time to comply with his legal obligations, obligations which have their raison d'être and which must be respected. The case is then followed by the investigation chamber, which will make every effort to put the company back on track. It is his mission – let us not forget – according to the law of 31 January 2009. We can somehow consider ourselves in the philosophy of second chance. That's what I was telling you earlier, Mr. Laaouej. The sooner the problem is detected, the sooner it can be resolved. At the end of the regularization period, the court, which is composed of consular judges from the business community, will decide whether or not to dissolve the company. That will be the case for the ghost society. Let us recall that we are in a judicial procedure which obviously involves all the related remedies: opposition and appeal. These various guarantees, which could hinder the dissolution of ghost societies, are necessary in order to prevent companies which are not in bad faith but which, for justified reasons, have been negligent, from being penalized. The continuation of the proceedings is that after an examination carried out by the commercial investigation chamber, if the court decides to follow up on the investigation - which is not an obligation - the company is summoned by court order. This judicial fold will contain the reasoned decision of the Investigation Chamber as well as the article on the judicial dissolution so that the managers or the administrator are fully informed of the consequences of a lack of presence. Its manager or administrator will therefore have the opportunity to be heard. The court then decides, depending on the circumstances, to grant a period of regularization or to dissolve the company. If the time limit is granted, the investigating chamber will follow up and the court will decide thereafter. On the other hand, and this is the second way, in three specific cases, the Board of Inquiry will now be able to communicate directly to the court the file of a company so that the court decides either to grant a period of regularization or to pronounce the dissolution. The three assumptions are as follows: the fact that the company was automatically deregistered by the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises; the fact that, despite two convocations at 30 days apart, the second by court, the company did not appear before the Board of Inquiry; if the directors or managers do not have basic managerial skills or the professional qualifications required for the exercise of their activity by law, decree or order. Again, the same beacons are provided for: detailed follow-up by the investigating chamber, which always seeks to find a solution to the situation if this proves necessary; summoning by judicial fold; possibility of explaining itself and asking for a period of regularisation before the court composed of consular judges. In order to ensure the cooperation of the managers or directors of a dissolved company, in particular, in the interests of creditors, the proposed law provides, as in the case of bankruptcies, for different obligations in respect of directors and managers. They must, in particular, go to the calls made by the liquidator who verifies the accounts and draws up the balance sheet, gives him all the information required and prevents him from changing his address. In the event of non-compliance with these obligations, the court may impose a prohibition on acting as a director for a maximum of three years. In conclusion, this bill makes it possible to put in place a rapid, flexible and, I dare say, effective procedure, with a view to suppressing ghost societies and stimulating negligent managers to get on the right track. It is clearly a fight against fraud and a boost for entrepreneurs in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u73	Mr President, very quickly because I have already been able to express a number of points of view. As a reminder, our group fully shares the objectives of this bill. The opposition was in line with the project as it originally existed and then we saw it evolve in a way that is no longer suitable in certain respects. Of course, there is an overriding need to reduce the number of inactive, fictitious businesses that currently number 140,000. It has been said; it harms the economy. They undermine fair competition which must exist in all economic sectors, in any case in a regulated manner and, in particular, it is essential to avoid their being used to commit offences (tax, social or other fraud). There is no shortage of examples. That is why we also share this objective of strengthening the economic police mission of the commercial courts with the desire to strengthen the commercial investigation chambers which are given a more active role. On this side, the means must follow. It was not enough to entrust additional tasks to the commercial courts, but the means were needed to do so. Now I turn to you, Mr. Clarinval. I have no doubt that you will be particularly attentive to this point. We will abstain because we believe that the bill is disproportionate and that, for this reason, it misses certain objectives. First of all, the time limit to dissolve the company, as early as the seventh month after the end of the financial year, if it has not reported its annual accounts is, in our view, far too short. We had a two-year proposal, which we feel is much more appropriate and proportionate. Indeed, we believe that it is essential for the court to be able to initiate proceedings, when a purely temporary problem arises for the company or accounting firm, such as an overload of work. But he must do so with great discernment. In other words, it must only be done if, really, it becomes structural. And it doesn't become structural after seven months! That is why we are calling this deadline into question. It may be useful for proceedings not to be initiated at pure loss, risking unnecessary and disproportionate harm to the firm in good faith. It is a matter of legal certainty that the chambers do not carry out investigations when the problem is strictly accounting and can easily be resolved. The proposed deadlines may also have the effect of increasing pressure on the profession of accountants, tax consultants or other professionals of the figure. This was explained to us by a representative of the Institute of Accountants. Obviously, it was not heard by the majority. We proposed an in-between, because we wanted to be constructive, given the sharing and adherence to the objectives. Another point that has not been mentioned is the occupational ban. The proposed law as amended provides for the prohibition of the profession of administrator, when the latter have not cooperated with the liquidators during the liquidation proceedings. We consider this disproportionate because it is a matter of transposing what exists in bankruptcy. In the case of bankruptcy, it is when it has been established that the conduct was found to be fraudulent that the professional prohibition can also be imposed. This transfer from one subject to another, in a completely different context, seems to us, again, totally inadequate and particularly disproportionate. We believe that we will miss the objectives, especially when the failure to deposit the annual accounts is not linked to any fault in the manager's head. Mr President, for all these reasons, we will abstain. I must make it clear that the mechanism presented to us today contains a number of shortcomings with regard to the regularisation of the conditions of regularisation when someone does not have the necessary qualifications. We believe that, too, a number of economic and social realities should have been better taken into account. You'll probably wonder why I'm also attached to this case. The reasons are obvious. There is, of course, the economic interest of entrepreneurs and, in particular, SMEs whose importance to the economic fabric is well known. But there are also the workers that are found in any company. And when a company is dissolved due to possible deficiencies, there are workers who laugh, while they are not responsible for either deliberate mismanagement or temporary mismanagement that is not linked to the manager's activity, but to external causes. That is also why these social interests should be able to achieve a balanced measure, which is unfortunately not the case with the text you are proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking Mr Clarinval for the good initiative. I am extremely pleased that we are closing some important gaps in our company law with this bill. I am also surprised that this proposal has not been given any more attention, because it is a far-reaching initiative to tackle financial and economic fraud through companies, and hence tax fraud, Mr Laaouej. Mr Laaouej, I see in your statement that your fear of applying the law prevails. The numbers are known. In 2013, 140 000 companies have not filed accounts for more than three years. In 1989 there were only 15 000. The ratio between the number of accounts not laid down and the number of accounts recorded has increased from one in ten to three in ten. The deposit of annual accounts is not an obligation of the legislator, although you seem to accept it here for no reason. The annual accounts are an essential element of company law. It is a contract, a social contract, between entrepreneurs and between society and the entrepreneur. It is also important that there is a legal figure behind it called limited liability. That limited liability must be earned. It can't be too gibberish by not taking the law too narrowly. If shareholders and partners opt for a form of company where their financial liability is limited to their contribution, that company shall, on the other hand, be transparent about its assets. This is the purpose of the filing and publication of the annual accounts. Employees with whom I am also deeply concerned should be allowed to know whether the company can fulfil its financial obligations. Moreover, the profit reported in the annual accounts is still the starting point in corporate tax. Without financial statements, the IRS is in the dark. Mr Laaouej, you replicated both in committee and just now that the tax authorities have a tax bazooka because of the automatic attack. Well, if you follow the case law, then you know that the automatic attack must not be arbitrary. Moreover, an automatic attack means a great deal of work for tax inspectors. In addition, this ex-officence of EUR 19 000 will be far too much for someone with a sleeping company and far too little for a real fraudster. Unfortunately, we have to note that despite criminal and administrative fines, directors' liability and judicial dissolution after three years and seven months, the number of companies that do not hold accounts continues to increase. The measures you took at the time under Secretary of State Crombez to simply delete those company numbers have had no effect. This bill changes the shoulder and that is why I am so happy and thank Mr Clarinval. From now on, any interested party or the public prosecutor, and this is also very important, will be able to claim the winding-up of the court after the expiry of the legal period within which the annual accounts are to be deposited, albeit from those seven months after the end of the financial year. In addition, the Chambers of Commerce are given the opportunity to communicate a file to the President of the Commercial Court. To date, they have simply depended on the public prosecutor's priorities so that a case can be brought before the court. There's no way. As a result, we aim to ensure the greatest possible transparency in the case of limited liability companies. This does not, of course, mean that the legal deadline for the deposit of the annual accounts is an ax to life and death for a company. On the contrary, Mr Clarinval has already explained it, and I would like, at the risk of repeating myself, to add a number of important points. First of all, if the Chambers of Commerce find that a company does not hold accounts, they will call on it and submit a regularisation period. If the directors do not agree, the Boards will notify the company file to the President of the Commercial Court. The President may then decide, but should not, in order to record the file and continue to deal with it with a view to rescinding the court. The company will be called up and will be able to defend itself as it should. The best defence is, of course, to correct the financial statements. The bill also stipulates that the judge always imposes a time limit for regularisation when an interested party or the public prosecutor brings an action for dissolution. However, we would point out that potpourri I no longer has a suspensive effect on the appeal and that an appeal can no longer be used as an additional period of regularisation after the court has declared its dissolution. That's important, isn't it? In both cases, Mr Laaouej, a company will have the opportunity to regularize its situation, and that is how it should be. You rightly pointed out during the discussion in committee that there are a number of cases where it is not useful to dissolve the company. We are thinking of situations where the management of the company is blocked, for example in the event of divorce, where each spouse has 50% of the voting rights. It may also concern the state of health of the drivers, the manager, the accountant or accountant. All this can be taken into account. However, these minor cases do not mean that the situation should be allowed to continue for three years, as is the case at present. It is in the interests of the company, third parties and the public authorities that active action should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u75	Mr Van de Velde, when I asked you all these questions in committee, I did so in a constructive way, to allow the legislator that we are to clarify the ratio legis, in other words to specify his will in such a way that tomorrow, when a president of a commercial court is seized of a case, he can assess it according to the will of the legislator. I am pleased that you have taken the time to give a number of examples in committee. And I find it very good that they are repeated in this forum, because I think it is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u76	Mr Laaouej, when I hear you talk about tax fraud, I must say that I never hear any leniency with regard to the taxpayer. However, if we ask companies to submit their annual accounts in good time, then the legal deadline has no interest. That is the contradiction I hear in your discourse. I believe that this legislative proposal is a clear example of this. The fact that no annual accounts have been deposited when the tax return is submitted does not seem to matter to you either. And the fact that the company violates the law, but not purposefully, does not matter either. That sounds surprising to us. That seems to me to be a bit of a way of working that you are trying to carry out in your ideology.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u77	We're talking about my ideology. I have to answer. Mr. Miller, I promise you, I won't make a carte blanche. Mr Van de Velde, in the major cases of tax fraud which we are given to examine in the Committee on Finance or in special committees, in most cases, a company is used to create a fictitious interposition in order to generate opacity and conceal fraudulent activities. It is really not me that must be convinced that there is a real problem, against which we must fight, with certain fictitious, phantom or disinherent societies, or companies that have false activity (which have real economic activity and even deposit their annual accounts, but which are nevertheless used for fraudulent purposes). From the moment it can be shown that these are fictitious companies, it is a forgery that can – which must – constitute a criminal offence, for which the protagonists must be prosecuted before the courts (not the commercial court, but the criminal court). It is not up to me, Mr Van de Velde, to explain that companies in disinherence or ghosts can potentially be instruments of tax evasion. I repeat that we fully agree with the objectives pursued. However, it seemed to us, in order to avoid too brutal or mistaken application of this procedure by SMEs or TPEs, that there was a need to find some balance within these schemes. But, Mr Van de Velde, please do not consider that, because we believe that the balance is wrong, we are in favour of laissez-faire. I said exactly the opposite. I said it in committee. I repeat it here. Between the disadvantage of repeating oneself and the disadvantage of not being heard, there is no need to swing. So, I repeat, Mr. Van de Velde.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u78	Then we'll turn the tables. You asked a moment ago whether we could perhaps be a little softer. You will find the measures disproportionate. Think about it again, until the vote. You can talk about it again with your group leader, Mrs Onkelinx. Think again. Wouldn't you turn your abstinence into a yes vote? The second condition that you consider disproportionate, I will also explain. It's about whether or not to cooperate in the judicial dissolution of the businessmen. In order for the government to have a final look at the activity of the company dissolved by the courts, the legislative proposal, as we have now conceived it, requires directors and businessmen to cooperate with the judicial liquidator. We think that's only logical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u79	Mr Van de Velde, I hear you talking about ideology. The Zuhal Demir Law Society (Zuhal Demir Advocaten) which – you probably know – is, today, Secretary of State, was established in 2010. I looked for annual accounts on the site of the National Bank's balance sheet centre, but I couldn't find one. In addition, the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (Bank-Carrefour des Entreprises) reports a write-off following the non-filing of the annual accounts. Are you talking about ideology? What is the ideology behind the attitude of a lawyer who knows the law and does not file annual accounts when she has created a company? Explain to me what the ideology behind this attitude is!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u80	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, ideology is very simple. I just got to that point. The present law will enter into force on the day it is published in the Belgian Official Journal. As a result, the chambers of commerce will be able to quickly address the calls of companies that have not submitted an account or have negative equity in recent years. For everyone in that case, regardless of whether it's a king, a prince, a secretary of state, you or anyone else, the law will apply. The legal objective is precisely to prevent interested parties from remaining in the cold and having no means of action towards an entrepreneur who does not comply with his legal obligations. That's the underlying ideology. Mr President, I would like to continue my speech. I had actually thrown a flower at Mr Laaouej by asking him to stop claiming that the law is too strict and that it is worth thinking about his voting behaviour. This is absolutely not disproportionate. Also, the question of cooperating with the court debtor is not disproportionate. I'll explain why. After all, a judicial liquidator can only do useful work if the directors and the managers hand over the company's accounts and provide the necessary information. The obligation introduced is the same as that applicable in the event of bankruptcy, where directors and managers have to cooperate with a curator. The sanction is even more lenient. Mr Laaouej, a director who does not cooperate with a curator can be punished with a prison sentence of one month to one year and a criminal fine of EUR 800 to 800 000, including criminal charges. This is provided for in Article 489 of the Criminal Code. The criminal court may also impose a professional ban of up to 10 years. In our proposal, a driver who does not cooperate with a judicial enforcer may be subject to a professional ban of up to three years. The prohibition can only be imposed by the court of commerce, so that the professional ban does not appear on the criminal record either. There is therefore a clear distinction, which is not disproportionate, but clearly intends to show that there is no point in going into legal dissolution without the businessmen cooperating in a positive way. There is nothing that can be done with these accounts. As a third point, we refer to an article in Trends.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u81	Mr Van de Velde, for someone who is convinced of tax evasion and who does not cooperate with the tax administration, since the interests of the Treasury are therefore particularly damaged, would you also be prepared to consider a three-year professional ban?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u82	Can you repeat the question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u83	Would you also be prepared to apply the same severity, as you are planning for the case of the procedure, with regard to serious tax evasion, for example involving tax havens? Would you be prepared to add a sanction to the anti-tax fraud scheme? I am not saying that I am proposing this provision. But that's a question I'm asking you because, basically, your argument is that you have to be able to punish someone who doesn't cooperate with a liquidator. Are you considering this type of professional ban sanction also in other areas? I have taken the example of tax evasion; others can be taken care of.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u84	In any case, in the case of criminal proceedings, it is possible to do so. As far as purely ungoing business is concerned, as long as it is not proven that it is effective fraud and so on, we are of course in a completely different debate. So it seems to me that it is rather dangerous to mix these debates, but I am absolutely prepared to think about that. You know that we take fraud very seriously. The Flemish and Walloon courts, Mr Laaouej, are divided as to whether the public prosecutor as an interested party can claim legal dissolution if the net asset falls below the minimum legal capital. This is now clarified by explicit reference to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the law. In addition, the chambers of commerce will, of course, be able to play a strengthened role on this ground as well. However, as the article in Trends states, common sense says that action must only be taken against those companies which pose a threat to society. Finally, I think it is important to say the following, Minister. At some point you said that was quite right to say that non-profit organisations will have to prove the origin of their money in the future. In fact, I think that is a very good proposal. Members of the majority know that during the work of the committee, my party made this bill quite clear as a condition to continue with the non-profit organisations. It cannot, of course, be that the entanglement we introduce in relation to companies means that non-profit organisations would be used even more as vehicles and certainly more in an urban context to initiate fraudulent practices, by doing all kinds of things with a legal person, which is not really for that purpose. In order to avoid that, we really want to sit on your lap as of tomorrow, so to speak, to work on the non-profit organisations. I know that your idea of proving the resources they use fits perfectly with the idea of the financial statements, so in that respect, you will hear me ring tomorrow, because we absolutely want to continue with that, so that now everything does not tilt to the non-profit organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer anyone registered for the general discussion. Since it is a legislative proposal, an explanation by the government is not mandatory either, so I assume I am allowed to close the general discussion. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1940/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1940/8) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending various laws in order to supplement the legal winding-up of companies." The title has been amended by the Commission in order to amend various laws with a view to completing the procedure for the judicial dissolution of companies". The bill has 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u88	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Egbert Lachaert, Carina Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Van Hecke, rapporteur, referred to the written report. I call Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u90	Mr President, this proposal, which creates a DNA database of those involved in criminal matters, has been voted on as part of the quick wins bill. Apart from the fact that it was probably not a text of this nature, we had asked for the opinion of the Privacy Commission, which was unfortunately rejected by the majority. It is true that, as a first step, the Commission had delivered an opinion on the matter. On the other hand, it was not able to deliver an opinion on the new amendments introduced by the majority, in particular the one aimed at increasing the time limit for automatic deletion of data from 30 to 50 years. This is obviously a huge problem since, in its examination of proportionality, the Commission had at the time estimated that, with the 30-year time limit, the provision was proportionate. It is therefore currently difficult to say the same about the amended version. While data retention is justified because some people sometimes work for more than 30 years, the 50-year period is particularly long. For the rest, the debate has obviously not taken place with the people concerned, like the police officers who will now, I would remind you, have to provide their DNA in order to carry out their tasks. It's not nothing! In addition, the Privacy Commission noted at the time, in the original text, that the systematic comparison of all DNA profiles with the stakeholders' database was not sufficiently motivated and inadequate. Today, it is therefore possible to confuse an intervenor in another criminal case as a suspect because his DNA was previously collected through this new database. The effect of this provision, as the Commission explained in its opinion, is that stakeholders, by virtue of their profession, are at greater risk of being identified than the rest of the population if they commit a serious offence. It's not nothing either! This implies that quality control is carried out so that the data bank can properly serve the general interest, i.e. work to discover the truth in criminal matters. We are, of course, not against the philosophy of this proposal, but the fact remains that this setback is neither adequate nor justified. This proposal was adopted speedily and, as I said, without further advice from the Privacy Commission and without taking the time to consult the people concerned. That is why my group will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u91	Mr President, I think we all know a crime scene from television shows, but in reality we are also getting off on the ground in criminal matters, we need forensic investigations and we immediately see that a lot of people go on the ground, such as police officers, experts, aid workers and other judicial staff. There is therefore a great deal of risk of contamination or a great deal of work in the trace research because we have to be able to distinguish the fingerprints of all those employees from the ones that are really involved in the investigation of detection and criminal proceedings. That takes a lot of time and a lot of money, which is why we have put forward a proposal to establish a database for the interveners, the people who intervene in an investigation. This proposal was submitted to the Senate by my colleague, Inge Faes, during the previous legislature. An opinion from the Privacy Commission has also been requested at that time. We have further developed that proposal and responded to the comments of the Privacy Committee. Saying that there is no advice is therefore not very serious. It was there and we met it. It is an important proposal, a further step towards the creation of different databases, such as the DNA database and recently the missing persons database. This is also a very important database because it can save time and save savings by excluding contamination with this database. I have heard Mr Özen's comments. After the debate, I think it was logical to put the deadline after which those profiles would eventually be erased to 50 years. However, I do not understand Mr Özen when she keeps saying that police officers and others must give up DNA. That is obvious, because if one does give up DNA and the other does not, there is no point in creating such a database. Moreover, this is a professional condition. There's no problem at all. More importantly, Mrs Özen, I refer to the opinion of the Privacy Commission, which explicitly agreed with that. We do what the Privacy Commission asks. It is an additional good step forward for more efficient forensic research. I am very pleased that we were able to have the discussion in committee and I thank everyone for that interesting discussion. I thank all those who supported the bill. The result was almost unanimous, with only one abstention. I am very pleased with that and thank everyone for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u92	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, DNA testing is now crucial in most police and judicial investigations. While this evidence is decisive and must never be neglected, targeted and intelligent analyses must be carried out as far as possible, taking into account their significant cost. That is why my group welcomes the creation of this DNA database that includes profiles of professionals who may be involved in the crime scene. This will allow, when traces are found, to automatically compare the latter with the profiles of the people who worked on the premises, without having to make any new samples each time. It is therefore not only an economy that will be achieved, but it will also be an important time saving for the survey. Indeed, the Privacy Commission was not heard when this proposal was discussed in committee. As we benefited from an opinion which had been given in advance, it did not seem to us useful to hold a new hearing and to request a new opinion since the texts dealt with the same subject matter. For the sake of efficiency and pragmatism, we have therefore not requested a new opinion from the Privacy Commission. In any case, there are important safeguards in respect of the privacy of the persons who will be included in this data bank. However, it seems important, as you have committed yourself, to involve industry professionals in the consultation process in order to reassure them that unsubstantiated fears do not undermine the purpose of this proposal. I would like to point out that this proposal is in keeping with the Act of 22 March 1999 on the identification by DNA analysis in criminal matters, which already provided for the creation of this "Intervenant" data bank. The implementation of this database will therefore be possible as soon as possible, depending on the technical circumstances. I would also like to welcome the work of the authors of the proposal, who tabled the text in the Senate under the previous legislature and who have been constantly working on it in order to arrive at a text which has been almost unanimous, since, as Mrs De Wit has said, it has been voted unanimously less one abstention in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u93	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u94	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2087/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2087/9) The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law of 22 March 1999 on the identification procedure through DNA investigations in criminal matters, with a view to establishing a DNA database "Intervenants." The title has been amended by the commission in "Proposal for a law amending the Code of Criminal Investigation and the Act of 22 March 1999 on the procedure for DNA identification in criminal matters, with a view to creating a DNA database "Intervenants". The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u96	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veli Yüksel, Nahima Lanjri, Roel Deseyn, Jef Van den Bergh, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Emmanuel Burton.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u97	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1276/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1276/7) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Wouter Raskin, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will cover both Mr Yüksel's motion for a resolution and the one tabled by my group. We will support these two texts, but not with the same enthusiasm. Mr Yüksel's is in the image of his party: it is blurred enough for everyone to count on it and not too ambitious to scare anyone. It does not avoid approximations or inconsistencies. The main inconsistency concerns its scope. The second recital and the introductory statement rightly recall that all public undertakings have a social role and an example function. They must therefore pursue a diversified and non-discriminatory policy. However, the requests in the proposal relate only to the SNCB Group. So exit Proximus, bpost, National Lottery, Belgocontrol, even Belfius. Would the fight against discrimination be more urgent for SNCB or more secondary in other public enterprises? The question has already been asked and has not been answered. Maybe I'll get it today. Our amendments to extend the scope of the proposal were rejected without explanation. Then there is an ambiguity about the objectives to be achieved. Do we want to promote diversity within the SNCB or combat discrimination? These two questions, apparently very similar, fall within two different philosophies. Promoting diversity within a business means engaging an individual because he or she is part of an ethnic group. The person is then defined not on the basis of his or her own qualities or the difficulties that he or she faces – I am not opposed to diversity as I believe that the encounter of cultures can only enrich society. Combating discrimination is another thing: it is paying particular attention to certain groups of people because they have to face the additional obstacles they face; it is trying to eliminate inequalities and correct social injustices. The distinction is important because if a problem is to be solved, it should be named and defined correctly. However, in committee, my colleague Grovonius has pointed out some inconsistencies in your motion for a resolution, Mr Yüksel, with regard to the objectives to be followed. Requirement of representative immigration is a good thing. We still need to know what immigration we want to talk about. Should it be recalled that not all immigrants face the same difficulties, that applying for a job when they come from France or Sweden is not the same as doing when they come from the African continent? Let us be honest, the introductory statement of the text does not completely evacuate this aspect, since it is a question of linking data on origin to socio-economic realities. There is even talk of the abnormally higher unemployment rate in Belgium than in Germany or the United Kingdom of nationals of countries outside the European Union. I therefore regret, above all, the inadequacy of our respective motions for resolutions and the blurry between the objectives set and the clearly established findings. And this, all the more so as an amendment by the majority considerably weakened the demands of the government. The latter will have to take binding measures only if it decides to define the objectives itself. It's a little bit the cat bites its tail. It is because of this fact that we have chosen to resubmit in plenary session our motion for a resolution which, on the one hand, covers all autonomous public undertakings and, on the other, more objectively sets out the results to be achieved. By paying particular attention to the unemployment of young people in large cities, we are also aiming to break out of a vicious circle observed in certain neighbourhoods which leads to gradual cultural, social and economic isolation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will therefore understand that our support for the majority text focuses more on its spirit than on its hypothetical implementation. That is why we are putting to your vote a proposal that is more ambitious and clearer in its objectives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u99	Mrs Lalieux, thank you and wish you a happy birthday!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u100	Mr. Chairman, may I inform you that this is Mrs. Lalieux's birthday?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u101	I just said it, Mr. Frédéric, and I congratulate Mrs. Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u102	I was inattentive!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that SNCB must not miss the train of diversity. Public enterprises have a social role and also serve as an example. It is important in our society that every talent is used. We have no luxury in that respect. In the resolution before us, we call on the SNCB Group to cooperate in future with the federal diversity policy, which is also included in the coalition agreement. We ask that SNCB include targets in the new management contracts and also set a diversity plan with measurable objectives. In the future, SNCB's workforce will have to reflect the diversity of Belgian society. Perhaps an attachment is not even necessary and can be inserted directly into the new management contracts to be created. As you know, the drafting of the new management contracts has been going on for a few years. Today, the railway companies operate on the basis of management contracts almost ten years ago. What are the numbers? In 2009, the inflow of other nationalities to SNCB was 1.8 %. In 2013, this had barely increased to 2.5 %. However, in the 2009 management contract, the current management contract stated that the inflow from those target groups would be 10%. So we see in reality that we are steadily achieving positive results, but it is far too slow. We want to move up a gear in this area. In 2012, 10% of the inhabitants of this country had a different nationality. Why do people work on the basis of nationality? Because this is the only way we can do this today. It is awaiting the definition of persons with a migration background that the federal government and the minister responsible for civil service are working on today. You all know that this exercise has already been completed at Flemish level. Goals have been set in that regard. Two weeks ago, the European Commission pointed out a gap among us, namely that the employment rate of people with a migration background outside the European Union in Belgium is the lowest of all EU Member States, both for the first, second and third generation. It is therefore important to increase the gear in this respect today. We also know that most of the levers are at the level of the Länder, but also the federal level must help where it can. We also see this as an important opportunity for SNCB at the moment because the SNCB Group is one of the largest employers in our country and within the federal administrations. The recruitment of 2 200 people is foreseen this year and the recruitment of 2 000 people is envisaged in the coming years. The baby boomers will be retiring massively in the coming years. This is an opportunity for the SNCB Group to ensure that its workforce becomes more a reflection of the various societies in our country. I hope that all the groups will support this resolution. I would like to say two more words with regard to the colleagues from the PS. We have opted for a step-by-step approach and we are starting with the SNCB Group. It is not excluded that we will be able to involve the other public companies later. I would like to stress once again that this ambition is set out in the coalition agreement. We're moving in step by step. It's not a measure in itself. We want to address certain problems in the labour market. The problem of youth unemployment is highlighted and this measure will undoubtedly have a positive impact on youth unemployment. However, I propose that we work step by step. SNCB will take some concrete measures to achieve results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u104	Mr Yüksel, I would like to ask you a clarification. I did not follow the discussion in committee, as I am not a permanent member of that committee on that subject. You say that you want to work step by step and that the coalition agreement is being implemented with the present resolution. In any case, it would be better to make it a legislative proposal, because a resolution still remains a resolution; you know that very well. Does the coalition agreement say that SNCB must be started or that action should only be taken in the case of SNCB? That is what you said just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u105	No, I said that this resolution fits perfectly with the government's ambition to implement a diversity policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u106	If that is the case in the coalition agreement, then I do not understand why this measure is now for SNCB alone. That is a very minimal ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u107	Mrs Temmerman, I understand that you have missed a lot of the debate. I did not see you in committee meetings. In this sense, your fellow Members have not made any comments at all, even though it does not matter now. We want to implement this ambition by including, among other things, targets in the management contract of SNCB. It is a very concrete measure with a view to achieving very concrete results. The resolution therefore aims to include targets in the management contract of the SNCB Group, thereby setting measurable targets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u108	Mr President, sometimes some colleagues are not present in committee. You weren't there either, Mr. Yüksel, when I started my speech. It is therefore not very nice to make such criticisms to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u109	I have not heard Mr Geerts in that connection either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u110	Of course, that doesn't make sense. We are talking about autonomous public enterprises under the control of the State. We just choose SNCB when we could apply it to all businesses. So it's not ambitious. You have to recognize him! When you were asked if only SNCB was targeted, you did not respond. We will vote on it, Mr Yüksel, but read ours, which is far more ambitious than yours! At the same time, a government amendment seems to be moving in a direction where the results are not important and it will be up to the government to determine them itself. Your ambition is further diminished. The idea was good, frankly! I would also like to add this text, but I think you should have worked with our resolution to find a global agreement and to be firmer than your own majority, because it was your majority who did not want it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u111	Mr President, in order to save time, I would like to use my speech to explain the motivation of my group. Mr Yüksel, first of all, the good news is that our vote will be in favour. Perhaps the other part of my speech is less sympathetic not to you, Mr. Yüksel. I've been renting your work since 2015 when you tabled this text. I like marathoners and you've come a long way. However, it must be acknowledged that the debates in committee and the comments made by the various groups, by Mrs Lalieux or others, dealt with a number of fundamental issues. The first is: why only this public undertaking? That's good, but there are others! The second point relates to some form of approximation in what you are asking the government. Of course, we are in a resolution, but we know that what is being discussed, particularly within the SNCB Group, is management contracts. They're just a little bit stronger tools. If we, as parliamentarians, want to act and have some influence on the management contracts that are being drafted – they take time – and put something really operational, it is in the management contract. That's why you don't! So, it's still a little strange! This is not just your responsibility, but if we really wanted a strong gesture, we would still need a resolution that specifies it more clearly and asks the government to put it in the management contract. It's the government negotiating. We have already made this point in committee, but I wanted to repeat it here. Thirdly, it is true that there are many approximations in a number of definitions and criteria. In the definitions, who is targeted? What is the exact wording? Nationality? In short, we have already had these debates. It would have been useful to deepen the definitions. It would have been useful to deepen the criteria. It would have been useful to be a little more explicit and precise about the figures requested. Finally, one of the very important issues for the SNCB Group has been sufficiently expressed in the debates which we have had, sometimes a little alone, in committee, in the context of many oral questions. Often the president whose birthday it is not every day and I take advantage of the opportunity, because I do not want to leave to Mr Frédéric the monopoly of the heart....
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u112	Much of it still!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u113	Yes, but don't do two things at the same time, you won't do them both right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u114	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u115	Only women can do it, I'm told!. The question is the renewal of SNCB's staff. You saw, like me, the pyramid of ages. The latter offers a real opportunity. That is probably the reason why we will support your motion for a resolution. Indeed, even if the objective is not very ambitious, even if it is not very defined, you are still showing a way, Mr Yüksel. So we're going to take – if I may say so – the running train, which allows me to connect with the news.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u116	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on behalf of our group. I hear the members of the opposition start with the same words each time, namely that they will support the proposal, after which the whole criticism of the initiative follows whether there are indications that the proposal does not go far enough, is not ambitious enough or is intended solely for the railways. That's too bad. There's a saying: better one bird in the hand than ten in the air. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have one in our hand. The proposal lies ahead and this majority will impose targets and a diversity plan on the cold, hard majority, as the opposition would like to call it. We are indeed starting, as Mr Yüksel points out, step by step within our railway companies. Mr Yüksel also referred to the fact that the Flemish Government is already doing so. I would also point out that the same Flemish government increased its targets in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u117	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u118	Mrs. Temmerman, it's a start. You could have imposed those targets in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u119	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u120	Unfortunately, the railway companies are still a federal matter. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u121	That is why I would like to say that our group will fully support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u122	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Cheron for his honest and balanced speech. Mrs Lalieux and Mrs Temmerman, why the SNCB? Firstly, because SNCB is one of the largest employers in the country. You can't deny that. Secondly, because the management contracts for SNCB are being drawn up today. It is now time to ask SNCB for targets and a diversity plan. Mr Lalieux, as I said in committee, and I do not want to play party politics: if the PS wants to do this, why did you not do it in the previous government when your party delivered the Minister of Public Enterprises?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate Mrs Lalieux, and I also congratulate her on her birthday. But I would tend to say, "Rastreins, valet!" It's a Walloon expression, which she may not know. For her to understand maybe better, I could also say, "Do what I say and not what I didn't do." Indeed, after 25 years in government, his party, the PS, complained about the absence of a diversity policy. In this context, I think that this motion for a resolution should be seen as a step forward. I have very much co-signed it, and I thank Mr Yüksel for this initiative. As our colleague Mr Marcel Cheron has said, we must salute the road. From time to time, you have to be able to show the way. I think that's what we're doing here. The management contract will most certainly confirm this positive development. The House is about to vote today on a text that is of particular interest to me. As you know, the criteria for diversity are multiple: gender, origin, skin colour, disability or religion. The subject thus goes beyond the sphere of business, because it is also political, societal, media; it concerns the school and the street. Respecting each other and valuing each person at his or her own worth are essential aspects that we, politicians and liberals, will have to carry for the good of the city. Diversity policy within the SNCB Group is fundamental in more than one way. I am once again pleased that Mr Yüksel has taken this initiative in the Committee on Infrastructure. As mentioned in the text, any public enterprise must adhere to the federal diversity policy by introducing numerical targets, in particular with regard to the proportion of workers with an immigrant background.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u124	Public enterprises, such as SNCB, must be examples for all. And the fact, Ms.Lalieux, that the government chose a woman to lead SNCB is also an extremely positive sign of the diversity that we want to implement. It is a pity that this has not been done before. The skills of immigrants are more than necessary, which means that workplaces must reflect what our society represents. Therefore, Mrs Lalieux, how can you not doubt a second - but I see that you are not interested - that federal public enterprises are setting the right example for the future. Diversity seems to us to be inextricably linked to equality. If the positive actions on which a true diversity policy is based tend to deconstruct stereotypes or reduce discrimination, then, yes, the cause of equality will emerge. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you and I too expect the management contract to highlight the resolution that we are going to vote on in a few minutes' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, work is an important cornerstone of integration and, by extension, it promotes the exercise of citizenship. According to the indicators of integration of immigrants 2015, published jointly by the European Commission and the OECD, Belgium remains one of the countries where the employment rate among immigrants is the lowest, since it is still more than 10% below the employment rate of nationals. The problems of integration into the labour market are directly related to segregation in schools and the lack of quantified targets for hiring foreigners. While the fight must take place upstream, it appears that a large number of companies and organisations do not invest in the professionalisation of their recruitment and selection procedures, much less in a selection procedure that would be part of a diversity policy. A policy of diversity must therefore be structurally anchored in order to mainstream it in the enterprise and not only reduce it to individual behaviour. We will therefore support this resolution, which proposes an improvement in the indicators and a strengthening of the binding nature of the targets with a view to recruiting more people of foreign origin from SNCB. However, it is regrettable that this must be achieved. Federal public enterprises should, of course, set an example in terms of diversity. It is not permissible for a company such as SNCB to fail to comply with the contract which provided for a 10% target of foreign workers in annual recruitments from 2009. Progress towards the target is derisory: from 1.8% in 2009 to 2.47 % in 2013, this is not the result of a proactive policy. There is therefore a need to increase the pressure. Let us acknowledge that it is regrettable to have to ask the federal government (paragraph 1 of the resolution) to urge the SNCB Group to join the federal diversity policy. Public enterprises are intended to be socially responsible and this is not only a question of combating unemployment for people of foreign origin. Public enterprises also have an interest in reflecting the public they serve, in particular by better understanding the expectations of users for the provision of resources similar to them, by promoting contract and dialogue with all segments of the population. Is it really a coincidence that there are two motions for resolutions on the agenda of our sitting in the same direction: the one for people of foreign origin and the one for young people in large cities? No, in our opinion, it's no coincidence. It is a reflection of a culture of public enterprise that has not been able to evolve and that no longer reflects our society. We will vote on this resolution with the hope that it will contribute to changing attitudes and practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u126	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u127	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u128	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Karine Lalieux, Laurette Onkelinx, Laurent Devin, Emir Kir, Éric Massin, Jean-Marc Delizée, Frédéric Daerden. The Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1762/2) The Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1762/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Mrs Nele Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u129	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2050: Valerie Van Peel, Sarah Smeyers, Karolien Grosemans, Koen Metsu, Peter Buysrogge - 1687: Valerie Van Peel, Sarah Smeyers, Karolien Grosemans. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Hellings, Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Crusnière. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has come a very long way. Actually, I still don't understand that today. Apart from a few legal discussions, I had honestly expected this to be a walk through the park, the logic itself: if someone stumbles upon a terrorist crime, there is only one thing that matters. This information must be sent to the competent services as soon as possible, so that it can be prevented from getting worse. That makes sense, doesn't it? This is already the case for every citizen today. If you are a citizen of a terrorist offence, you must report it to the public. If not, they are guilty of negligence. Only for social workers has until today prevented professional secrecy. To claim that the current legislation is sufficient to enable secret agents to identify terrorist offences is to violate the truth. At the moment, professional secrecy takes absolute precedence over the obligation of reporting by citizens and officials. This is provided for in Articles 29 and 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Persons bound by professional secrecy may report terrorist offences only if the conditions of the state of emergency are met. This is an exception created by the case law and which allows for different interpretations. In order to meet the conditions of the state of emergency, there must be a real and serious danger that it cannot be avoided in any way other than by communicating the data. Moreover, there must be a current, certain and serious danger to the interests to be protected which cannot be protected in any way other than by breaking the secret. Are you still with me? Actually, I don't. Even before the courts, it is a difficult task to determine whether or not the conditions of the state of emergency are fulfilled. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the law says. It is therefore even more difficult for a social worker to make that assessment. Besides, not all terrorist crimes can come under the state of emergency today. This bill now creates a legal basis for breaking professional secrecy which is clear. At least much clearer than the conditions of the emergency. The legal certainty of the person concerned therefore only improves. Don't back off, no matter what you say here. And yes, it will be a duty. If such information is available, there must be no doubt at all. There is also a very clear choice for the protection of employees by not imposing a penalty on the reporting obligation. Nor is it the result of the investigation that will determine whether or not the employee has broken his professional secrecy correctly, in application of this law, but whether or not the employee is convinced that he has been attacked by a terrorist offence. Since there is no criminal sanction linked to the reporting obligation, this duty is above all a moral duty, but also an important duty. For those who would later doubt the need for this proposal, I should like to point out the following. The reality has proved for many years that some OCMWs are a minority, but a minority most affected, namely some Brussels OCMWs show no willingness to reflect on what was already legally possible here today. For years, the College of Attorneys General has referred to the fact that every question in a terrorist investigation has received a standard letter from a number of Brussels OCMWS with not much more words than: "Sorry, but professional secrecy'. For example, if they had questions about the real whereabouts of arrested terrorists, it remained silent in that Brussels OCMW's, let alone that they are inclined to report something themselves. For those who come here to say that it is not necessary: reality contradicts you. Certainly so remarkable is that those who come here today claim that it is possible and that it is possible, often five minutes later, to finish their speech with the sentence: "This proposal is ridiculous." Of course, you have to choose: whether it can be done and you are right to think that it can be done, or it is terrible and it goes far too far. In my view, both views are difficult to reconcile. This legislative proposal provides clarity for all concerned and guarantees a better flow of information, which is crucial in the fight against terrorism. If, within the framework of a terrorist investigation, the court asks a social institution about benefits or the real place of residence, it will be obliged to reply to them, under penalty of a fine. If one of the employees himself, during the execution of his job, hits on a terrorist offence, there is no time to waste and he or she will have to report this stante pede. The employee in question therefore no longer has to worry about being able to expose himself to prosecutions for violating his professional secrecy. That is what this proposal provides: clarity and legal certainty. To the regret of those who envy! To all those who continue to claim that this undermines professional secrecy and thus undermines a democratic principle, I would like to say the following. The professional secrecy is not absolute. It never was, and there are good reasons for that. If a democratic order considers that a different interest prevails, then professional secrecy must depart from this. Now, frankly, I wonder who would think that the security of our citizens is less important than the relationship of trust between a terrorist and a social worker. You can raise your hand, because I'd like to know who. [[No one raises their hand]] That's what I thought. The professional secrecy is never meant to be untouchable. The purpose of professional secrecy is never to protect terrorists better than our citizens, and that is where we are drawing the line today. On the French-speaking side, the bill caused even more commotion than in Flanders, often due to a lot of disinformation, until a letter appeared in Le Soir, I thought, from the father of a victim of the attack in Maalbeek, after remarks by the rector of the ULB. I think the discussion was a little dull at the time. I called that person asking if I could read his letter. I am going to do that in Dutch, with the greatest respect for the victim, Aline, about who it is, and the family and relatives of the victim, but in the hope that some fellow Members will think about the criticism they have unjustly voiced about the legislative proposal before us. I read: Mr. Rector, my daughter Aline studied and obtained a master's degree in communication at your university, one of the basic principles of which is the fight against obscurantism and dogmatism. Unfortunately, her short life came to an abrupt end on 22 March 2016 in Maalbeek, shattered by terrorism and religious fanaticism. The investigation is still ongoing, but is slow and difficult, and although we have set ourselves a bourgeois party, we do not have access to the investigation file, as the law allows us, because unfortunately there are too many of us and this material is impossible. So we wait patiently and rely on the investigating judge in charge of the file. Having said that, I am sure you understand my disbelief and my surprise when I hear from the Prime Minister's voice in replying to your free gallery the following: "In September 2015, the Attorney General of Brussels, in his opening address, regretted the attitude of certain OCMW members who refused to cooperate with Justice in investigations into certain social benefit recipients suspected of terrorist activities by hiding behind their obligation to respect professional secrecy. This statement was confirmed at several hearings in the Chamber in the framework of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on 22 March. On this occasion, both the federal prosecutor and several police officers pointed out the problems of professional secrecy, behind which certain services and their staff were absent in the context of investigations into terrorist offences. As a reminder, during his interview by the Committee of Inquiry on 3 October 2016, the Attorney General of Brussels pointed out that a few days earlier he had received a letter from the OCMW of the city of Brussels in which it refused to cooperate in a terrorist investigation under the guise of professional secrecy. In order to remedy this situation, the majority, with the commendable help of opposition party cdH, is right to propose a draft law to abolish the confidentiality of social workers, but only in the case of terrorism. That you reject any change in that respect is one thing, and that is your right as a citizen. The fact that you think you can use the moral authority associated with your duties is another matter that deeply saddens me. At some point in history, the professional secrecy of bankers was still violated. Can we imagine at this time that this would still exist under the same circumstances? It seems incomprehensible to guarantee the way in which professional secrecy is used today as described above. It is not a matter of shoplifting or beatings and injuries in this case. These are 32 innocent people who were killed and dozens of traumatized people who will have to bear their suffering all their lives. The State has not been able to guarantee their safety and will no longer be able to do them justice because the perpetrators who have disappeared will remain suspects forever. At least they have the right to the truth behind this tragedy and it would be inhuman to keep those secrets. While the families of the victims have been struggling for almost a year in the grip of compensation procedures and have to grieve through sleepless nights that will undoubtedly take their toll, national governments have a duty to do everything so that in the future other citizens would not be equally affected. No, Principal, there is no such thing as a utopian world. Taking refuge in denial and refusing any change is not helping us. This only benefits our enemies, who use all our weaknesses to try to disrupt our society. If we are not able to stand up, then the philosopher Michel Onfray will unfortunately be right when he says: "After a period of terror, in which the western blood was generously shed, we can only answer with candles and stuffed animals, poems and silent parades that are signs of nihilism in which we languish. Pierre Bastin, father of Aline Bastin."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u132	Of course, we all learned about this white card that was written by the father of one of the victims. This is a dramatic, painful testimony. The words that are chosen leave no one indifferent. I understand the anger and incomprehension of this gentleman who wrote his letter in response to the plea of the rector of the ULB. I am, however, uncomfortable with you using it in this debate, because this white card is about the pain of one of the victims' father. We have all already been questioned to give our opinion in response to this letter. We know that there is no question here of obstructing the best possible collaboration between CPAS and justice. And that's what this gentleman denounces. But it has not gone into detail, as we have done in committee, on the difference between passive and active obligations, which you have added in a second text and which raises the problems which we have been able to discuss in committee. I find that using this letter in this debate blurs the cards, because it is a real tragedy, a real suffering. Not all the legal and technical elements are in this white card, which is normal. I would like to put the debate back on a less emotional basis, because there is a great difference between passive obligation and active obligation and the impacts for field workers are also very different. I would like us to focus on this without interpreting emotional statements from the relatives of the victims of the 22 March attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u133	I have already answered the legal questions in an initial statement. There will be another piece, but I thought it was important to give the letter, again, in consultation with the person himself. With all due respect, that letter makes it very clear what the importance of the bill is. There has also been a great deal of discussion about this. He sums it up very well. You call it an emotional call. I think the letter is anything but overly emotional. It's a very thoughtful letter from a man who's given it some serious thought. I do not think it wrong to bring that letter here in the global debate to underline the importance of the proposal, once again with the permission of the gentleman himself and with all due respect for his words. By the way, there has also been a debate in French-speaking Belgium on the letter in question. That you want, above all, to have the legal discussion, I have no problem with that. You may do so; you shall speak immediately. I have already refuted some of your points. Colleagues, it is about protecting our citizens. That must be our main task. That must, of course, be done with respect for everyone's rights, that is true. That is why we are drawing the line in the case of terrorist crimes. How many times the VVSG and its Walloon counterpart are allowed to proclaim this knowingly and knowingly, it is not going to happen here today. That is also deliberately not the case. Local security cells, the so-called LIVCs, were created for this purpose, and Mr Terwingen submitted a draft law on mutual professional secrecy, so that the first signals for the best guidance can already be put together. Such a system works, that's good. It's not an or-or story, it's an en-and-story. This proposal is about terror in its purest form. The proposal is about terrorists. It is about people who have travelled to Syria with the intention of fighting there. These are people who are helping to prepare for a terrorist attack. These are persons who recruit and encourage other people to travel, to prepare, to trade in weapons for the purpose of committing attacks. These are individuals who encourage others to commit attacks. These are persons who participate in the activities of a terrorist group by providing material resources or by providing financial support to them. They are terrorists who have already committed an attack or who will commit it within a short period of time. All these cases are very clearly listed in the articles of the Criminal Code referring to terrorist offences. If there are serious indications of such a situation, we must not doubt it. Then this must be reported to our security services, so that they can take the further steps that are needed, and so that suffering can be avoided. Employees of social institutions have special information due to the nature of their relationship with their clients. It is certainly not inconceivable that this information contains serious indications as to what I have just explained. In any case, the flow of information on terrorism is crucial. Without prejudging Mr Dewael's report, this may also become one of the most important conclusions of the work of the Committee of Inquiry on the attacks of 22 March. That is what the College of Attorney General has been asking for years. That's what's going on here today. More than ever, I am convinced that this should not be discussed. I hope the same applies to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this House unanimously wishes to fight terrorism effectively and consistently and, therefore, to adopt the necessary measures to achieve this. Our opposition to the text before us today does not at all call into question this will. If this trial were to be done, it would be false and unhealthy, implying that we do not want this text because we would not be on the front line to strengthen the fight against terrorism. Simply put, we do not share and do not want to share a safe vision that undermines our most valuable values and rights, including the right to social security, the right to social assistance and, above all, the right to privacy. You seal this security vision in a text of such impreciseness that it opens the door to arbitrariness without preventing terrorist acts. I would like to remind you of a recital from the Council of State, in its opinion of 24 June 2016: "The reasons why confidential information in possession of CPAS members and personnel is so much more relevant and necessary in the fight against terrorism than confidential information in possession of other persons of trust." As we know, today terrorists have different trajectories. Some had stories, many were historyless quidams, Mr. and Mrs. All-the-World. There were no particular signs of individuals who were involved with the CPAS and who were involved in bloody acts. This change was also anticipated by Mrs Giudicelli, who said: "Since surveillance remains focused on radical Islam and its various external signs, the next step should logically see a generation of individuals eluded from these characteristics, with the apparently smooth, socially surrounded past, perfect citizens, undetectable, early strong of an all internal underground (...) Nationals whose only external signs are those of normality." This leads to a culture of suspicion. I would like to recall the words of Kofi Annan, after the Madrid attacks in 2005: "The violation of human rights cannot contribute to the fight against terrorism. On the contrary, this allows terrorists to achieve their goal more easily, by giving the impression that morals are in their camp, and by creating tensions, by inciting hatred and distrust of the government precisely among those among whom terrorists are more likely to find new recruits. We are not alone in denouncing the text under consideration, pointing out the dangers it poses, thinking that it is not achieving the objective of combating terrorism. I recall that the three CPAS federations, the trade unions, the human rights leagues, the anti-poverty networks, the youth support sector, the ICRÉ, university professors, the ULB rector and many others have joined the niche. Some were seen in our Parliament in the early afternoon; I will continue to repeat this: professional secrecy is essential to the relationship of trust that the citizen must necessarily have towards certain confidants. Social workers, doctors, lawyers, journalists, police officers, psychologists or teachers, for example, are obliged to do so. But, let us be clear, the professional secrecy provided for in article 458 of the Criminal Code is not an absolute right. We all know that. It must, already today, in some cases, give way to other imperatives, the essential thing being always to maintain a balance between the maintenance of the bond of trust and the protection of society as a whole. To pretend the opposite today is to lie! Yes, the waiver of professional secrecy is already provided for in the event of testimony in court or before a commission of inquiry. Yes, the waiver of professional secrecy is already provided for in the case of offences against minors or persons who are vulnerable because of their age, pregnancy, partner violence, illness, infirmity or physical and mental disability! Yes, the waiver of professional secrecy is already provided for in case of non-assistance to person in danger! Yes, the lifting of professional secrecy is already provided for by the obligation on any official to report the crimes and offences of which he is aware to the King's prosecutor! It's the Code of Criminal Investigation. In the light of our legislation, professional secrets do not constitute, contrary to what this bill attempts to make appear, an obstacle to the fight against terrorism. All persons currently held to professional secrecy can already lift it in specific situations and, most of the time, recognize that cooperation with judicial and police authorities is proceeding well. Was it necessary to ignore the information transmitted by the Prosecutor General of Brussels, who deplored, in September 2015, in his mercurial, the attitude of some CPAS refusing to cooperate with the Justice system by systematically escaping behind professional secrecy? The answer is clear. No! And we have also been open in the discussion of what has been called the passive reporting obligation, in order to find out how to clarify the situation. We supported the idea of better collaboration between the Social Security Carrefour Bank and the judicial authorities, which seemed to allow us to meet the objections that were raised. We also supported the development of a circular to define a specific procedure in the context of the information to be transmitted to the King's Prosecutor when he so requests. Of course, when these were constructive proposals, we were not heard. And, despite that, we continued to be constructive. We have, for example, repeatedly requested that the necessary clarifications be made in the text as to the administrative information deemed necessary in the context of this obligation to provide passive information, as I recall, also requested by the Council of State. Some clarifications have been made, I agree, and others, since Minister Borsus is announcing this to us, will probably be made through a circular. I hope so. But where we cannot reach you, it is in this obligation of active information that you impose today not only on social workers but also on all members of social security institutions. Those persons who, by virtue of their profession, become aware of one or more information which may "constitute serious evidence of a terrorist offence" will thus have to make the declaration to the King's prosecutor. As the Council of State pointed out, with this obligation of active information, one touches on the very essence of professional secrecy. Professional secrecy is affected in its substance, as the scope of the provision is broad. According to the Council of State, it was for the legislator to judge the proportionality of such an obligation. He has consistently recalled this and, in each of his opinions, has encouraged the legislator to review these provisions and to make this justification. This has still not been done today. The legislator, in committee, decided. This majority has decided, reducing the professional secrecy of grief, stigmatizing the social beneficiaries again. And as I have just said, the desired goal is unlikely to be achieved. All members of social security institutions (including mutuals, trade unions, and also CPAS), tens of thousands of staff members, are now assigned a mission that cannot be theirs, and for which, moreover, they are not trained. They are social workers and not police indicators. By forcing them to be the rightful arms of justice and the police, your majority, in particular, your government is discrediting social workers, making them think that they would not measure their responsibility. Your majority, your government, thus undermines the essential work they do on a daily basis, rather than remedying the shortcomings of the security services by giving them sufficient human and financial resources in the context of an effective fight against terrorism. Your majority, your government, places a new responsibility, far too heavy, on the shoulders of the people concerned. Moreover, as the Council of State has said, this text is too vague, too vague and too imprecise. This text opens the door to arbitrariness and creates real legal uncertainty. What information are serious indications, not clear indications, of a terrorist offence? I would remind you that it is a question of combating terrorism, not of combating radicalism. How will the persons concerned judge the relevance of information to a terrorist offence? What if they're wrong? What will their responsibility be and who will shoulder it in case of unfounded denunciation? Who will pay the damages to the unjustly suspected individual? What will happen if it appears that the indices have not been transmitted? Dismissal of the employee concerned? Damage and interest? Criminal prosecution? There are many outstanding issues. As several professional organizations have announced, an appeal to the Constitutional Court is unfortunately not to be excluded. The interests at stake in this case are multiple. You mustn't sweep them with a back of your hand. It is the right of citizens to privacy, the duty of secret professionals to preserve not only the relationship of trust necessary for the fulfilment of their mission, but also the general interest of society. These paramount interests must all be protected. The legislator has always tried to maintain this difficult balance, which is being undermined today by this text. Our fears for tomorrow are great. We fear that this lifting of professional secrecy will be extended to other professions: journalists, doctors, etc. Similarly, we fear that it will be extended to other offences. These concerns are legitimate. I would remind you that the Prime Minister has endeavoured to make it appear in the press that the lifting of professional secrecy was being considered solely in the context of the fight against terrorism. However, Mr Borsus, you have spoken – in response to a question I asked you – in favour of extending this obligation of information to offences other than those relating to terrorism. Maybe to social fraud? Who believes in the government and the same political party? Finally, there is your proposal, Minister of Justice, currently under consideration in the Justice Committee; a text concerning shared professional secrecy. It has also been the subject of a virulent opposition. This text remains vague, despite some modifications, since it allows the professional secrecy of all professionals bound to secrecy to be lifted in order to avoid any infringement of a person's physical or mental integrity, without a minimum degree of seriousness, without the consent of the victim or alleged perpetrator, on the basis of a mere fear and without necessarily being justified. The president of avocados.be, Jean-Pierre Buyl, said last March, in the Order's newsletter, that the secrecy of those who hold the confidences of citizens out of necessity or even usefulness is thus threatened. The work of undermining the professional secrecy that you have begun is therefore only beginning. So, yes, we must fight terrorism effectively. Yes, we need to hear the victims. Yes, we must provide effective solutions to ensure greater security for our citizens. But, clearly, the text on our benches today does not achieve any of these objectives. Beyond the defence of social workers and insured persons, it is the defence of our fundamental freedoms that is at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u135	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as Éric Massin has said and repeated at the moment – and this is probably the only point in his speech that I fully agree with – I think that all of us here share the objective of improving the fight against terrorism. To improve this fight, a key is highlighted by the Attentats Committee: a better circulation, a better collection of information. This will be evident from the recommendations that will soon be published at the end of the work of this Commission. This is one of the keys to improvement: the flow and collection of information. Let's go back in time for a moment. In September 2015, Mr Delmulle, Attorney General, published a mercurial. He regretted the attitude of some. He certainly does not make it a generality. He does not say that there are many of them, but he regrets that some CPAS, in response to requests for information, oppose the rule of professional secrecy and fall behind it. This regret, he repeats to us a year later, in the context of the hearings conducted by the committee of inquiry into the attacks. He is reinforced in this rehearsal by another character of the Judicial Order who is Frédéric Van Leeuw, the federal prosecutor. We're not talking about a single case. Mr Delmulle spoke about a situation encountered in 2015. Mr. Van Leeuw spoke about cases lived a few days before his audition in 2016. So, it's been repeated. This is obviously beginning to worry not only the commissioners but also the victims (we heard the father's testimony). The reaction of some CPAS worries a lot of people. Initiatives are therefore being taken. What is it? This is a proposal that has raised a lot of questions, a lot of reactions, a lot of criticism, a lot of questions. I think we should be able to listen to them. Most of all, we must be able to meet them. What are we talking about here? We are talking about a proposal which has two objectives and which, at the same time, seeks to clarify a situation with regard to social workers and with regard to the institutions and their staff working in the field of social security. The first objective is to compel social security institutions and their staff to provide the King's prosecutor with information - administrative information - about individuals who may be investigated in connection with terrorist offences, when requested by the Crown prosecutor. This is what has been called the "passive part" of the proposal: the obligation to respond to the requests of the King's prosecutor. Second obligation, and it is the one that is debating, I believe. The aim is to establish an obligation for the staff of the institutions to report any information that may constitute a serious indication of the existence of a terrorist offence. This is the active part of the proposal. I think that, here, we go beyond the Code of Criminal Investigation, which obliges everyone to report the crimes and offences of which he is aware, because we are not talking about a crime or an offence of which we are aware, but about the serious evidence of the existence of an offence. We are therefore upstream and, as the Council of State has pointed out, in a wider, broader, probably more questionable sphere in the noble sense of the term, that of debate. On the understanding that all information concerning strictly medical data, which is of a personal nature, will continue to be fully covered by medical confidentiality. Ladies and gentlemen, our group supports this proposal, because we consider that it does not in any way call into question the work, the action of social workers. I know social workers well, personally, because I started my political career as president of a CPAS. For six years, I had great pleasure working with social workers and was able to measure the difficulty of their work. Anyone who has exercised a mandate in a CPAS will be able to understand what I am saying here. They're front-line actors, yes. It's not up to me to say yes, by the way!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u136	Mr President, I did not intend to intervene in the debate, but to speak later. However, I am touched by my colleague, as I have also had the honour and pleasure of chairing an OCMW for six years. I also usually have a great deal of appreciation and confidence in the employees of OCMW. I am referring explicitly to what you call the active part of the bill, which introduces a duty for the social workers. My question, as ex-president of an OCMW to an ex-president of an OCMW, is whether you feel that your OCMW staff in Koekelberg, or anywhere else, have failed to take responsibility when they have seen criminal offences and to inform you or the police services of your area. Have you experienced that problem? What is the consequence for someone who knows something, but who doesn't do it for all kinds of reasons, for example because he doesn't find the right phone number for the prosecutor? What sanction does the social worker risk if he doesn't?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u137	You're talking about CPAS and actors in the field. How do you explain that all the CPAS federations, the secretaries of the CPAS of the Brussels Region, have spoken out against this text, in particular against the active obligation? You yourself refer to your field experience, and to the respect you show, as everyone here, for the work done within CPAS. I therefore wonder how you feel about this movement on the ground, which is taking an extremely clear stand against this text. How do you explain it? Why didn't you answer some of their expectations and some of their questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u138	Mr President, with regard to former OCMW presidents, perhaps a current OCMW chairman can answer first. Mr Bonte, you had two questions, and as Mr OCMW President, I can also give you an answer. First of all, is it happening that social assistants stumble on criminal facts and don't pass them on? Well, they are not allowed to pass that on today. There's an obligation of professional secrecy, except in a state of emergency. So it depends on what this is about, Mrs De Coninck. That is precisely what professional secrecy is about. That's why we're here today. Mr Bonte, you also asked how the VVSG and its Walloon counterpart were against and how many social assistants were indeed on the streets, especially in French-speaking Belgium; this was not the case in Flanders. I will answer what I said earlier in my speech. Well, that can be because the VVSG has sent three to five times and its Walloon counterpart up to ten times a letter in which they write factual falsehoods, in which, for example, it states in black and white that this bill applies to radicalisation. I have given them the bill over and over again and told them that this is actually not true, but they have continued to communicate. I note that an independent organisation is apparently starting to do politics because otherwise it will not be able to get the job done. If it were to apply to radicalisation and be a duty, I would agree that it would not be a good thing. Before that they have the LIVCs. In fact, we must deal with this in a different way. This is about terrorist crimes. That is not something we should discuss. I'm sorry, but the field has been picked up. That's why. These are discussions that are being held within the OCMWFs. With this proposal, it is clear what they should do and are legally protected if they do so. So what's the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u139	Mr Pivin, my aim is not to interrupt you, but I think we're going to do a little ping pong! Before I ask you my question, I would like to make it clear that we are talking about active denunciation and therefore serious evidence. It's not about offences. I would like to take over Mrs Van Peel, who is talking about offences. You're a former president of CPAS. It's a great thing. You have a field practice. I still am, as things stand now. Imagine, tomorrow, a health aid going to someone's house and noticing, on the dining table, a gsm disassembled with threads that exceed. Is that a serious clue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u140	We're not here to play Expert, Mr. Massin. First of all, I would like to reply to our colleague Hans Bonte: I have never personally been confronted with any difficulty because I have always been keen to have excellent relations of cooperation and collaboration with staff. That is the philosophy of this bill. So I've never been confronted with the situation, but it's been years since we talked so much about terrorism. Today we are confronted with some reports of serious evidence about fathers wishing to leave Belgium, etc. All the elements go back, but the case of a CPAS in a municipality is not that of all CPAS or of all situations. We have never experienced the situation, but in any case I have seen that, sometimes, social workers are uncomfortable to express something, and the question arises as to whether they can say what they are prepared to say. I have sometimes collected in my office confidences, with all the precautions of use, because these people do not always know if they can explain what they want to explain to you. That is also the clarification of this bill, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u141	Mr. Pivin, whether you are receiving in your office, as president of CPAS, people who are wondering whether they can report or not, that is quite normal. You're under the same professional secrecy. Secondly, the denunciation referred to here is not that of a social worker or other worker in the framework of a CPAS which opens up to the Director General, the Director of the Social Assistance Service or the President of the CPAS with regard to clues which he has found. Here, we aim to pass on to the police authorities! It's not the same thing at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u142	Mr Pivin, I have no doubt about the sincerity of your approach, and I confess that I can still understand the argument – and I will repeat it in my presentation – that is to establish a clear rule. But I believe you have just given the answer to a real problem. You say yourself: "I have received in my office staff members who have come to explain things to me." That is why I have tabled an essential amendment which, in my view, could reconcile many points of view. At one point, rather than placing the burden on each staff member, they could be allowed to have a reference. It would be either the highest official of the institution concerned or the political authority. This would verify whether or not the conditions are met to transmit the information to the judicial and police authorities. That is a guarantee of legal certainty! But you're not looking for legal certainty. You are looking for an announcement effect, which will mean that, in fact, very few members of the institutions concerned will transmit information on their own initiative, even if they hold certain observations. We will one day take stock of the actual application of the law. It would therefore be smart to create a balance between the protection of staff members and the guarantee of the efficiency of the transmission of information, through a reference. If you had the intelligence to reach that balance, you would gain in safety and efficiency, but you don't want to make that choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u143	Mr President, I am largely in agreement with what Mr Maingain has just said. Mr Pivin, I would like to return to what you said. A social assistant in an OCMW may have sensitive information and doubt whether or not to refer it to the police. It may include neglect, incest, a crime or a crime. What we are discussing now is also about terrorism. I think the social assistant is doing the right thing when she discusses the issue with her OCMW chairman in case of doubt. That is, by the way, Mr President, and I would also like to address the philosophy of the Local Integrated Safety Cells, the LIVCs, in which the OCMW Chairmen, together with the police forces, the mayors and, if necessary, other persons, weigh up the sensitive information and transfer it within the legal framework. Mr Pivin, what is before us is the exact opposite. Everyone will be charged with the obligation to call the Attorney General immediately. In my explanatory statement I will ask who is intended, because it is much wider than the social assistants: in the discussion at the committee meeting there was talk about the chef, the gardener and I do not know much. As President, therefore, you are no longer in a position to consider the matter, nor are the police forces, for the matter is expected to be reported immediately to the prosecutor. I wish the D.A. good luck. I hope he has enough phone lines. In practice, a great deal of information is already being transferred within a legal framework. You have experience in this area in Koekelberg, I in Vilvoorde. Now I come to your point, because indeed, that experience may not exist everywhere. However, there are consultation platforms and OCMW associations and cities to this end. The government should be pleased, because according to the local authorities, the VVSG in Flanders, the LIVCs are the appropriate channel. This is now completely crossed by the individual obligation imposed. I also stick to my second question. What happens if someone knows something and doesn't hand it over? What sanction is the man, the woman, the gardener, the cook at risk? I'd like to know. So far I have not been given an explanation of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u144	That's not true. I've given you five answers to that, but I'll do it again. There has been no deliberate sanction to open a hunt for the employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u145	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u146	Maybe you can let me finish, and you'll get the answer right away. What continues to exist is the culpable omission that also applies to ordinary citizens. If information is withheld knowingly and knowingly, then it falls within the scope of negligence. That's the way it is for everyone. We all have to make that assessment. Then why wouldn't a social worker suddenly be able to do that? As far as the middleman is concerned, I understand that they are talking about this, but the courthouse... you're acting like they're all supposed to call the highest in rank. The bill states the King's Attorney, which means they can go to the police. The point is that the direct link, the direct information, must come from the person himself in such matters. I can only emphasise once again: this is not about doubts and situations, this is about terror, about terrorist crimes. That is why the direct link has been made and that is why a LIVC is being developed for a very different problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u147	We are really in an exchange, which is good; but I do not think this is the place to repeat the whole debate in the committee. I think that everyone must be able to move forward and present his or her point of view. If you don't mind, I'll go on. As far as passive reporting is concerned, the Council of State has made no comments, as we all know. With regard to the requirement for active information, there were comments and observations. There have therefore been amendments. Thus, since it was a point of debate, the authors recalled that the preparatory acts were also covered by the proposal. Otherwise, how could the difference in treatment between different offences be justified, since they all have a terrorist connotation? Finally, regarding the fact that the mechanism would affect the privacy of the person who opens and communicates information to the person whose assistance is to be requested by the prosecutor, the Council of State says three things. The first is that a limitation on the protection of privacy must be provided for in a law. That will be the case if this Parliament votes on the draft. The second is that the text must pursue a legitimate goal. I think it's important. Thirdly, the Council of State proposes that the legislator, that is, we, evaluate whether the option of targeting all terrorist offences can be reconciled with the principle of proportionality. In saying this, the Council of State invites us to make a political choice. And as you said, Mrs Van Peel, this is a political choice in favour of a better flow of information in the context of the fight against terrorism. Mr Massin, you stressed that professional secrecy is an important principle. I want to say it's essential. But that is not an absolute principle. He already suffers from exceptions. Two already appear in article 458 itself. The first is in the context of a testimony in court. And the second must be provided for by a law. Right after that, in Article 458bis, there is still an exception to the principle of professional secrecy. And I think I read it in the Prime Minister's letter to the Rector of the ULB: between 2011 and 2016, no less than 5 times, the principle of the protection of professional secrecy was legally derogated from. These are two examples of these derogations. As soon as there are exceptions, let us see to what extent one should be added in the area of terrorism. Mr Massin, you said: "But all this is already planned. Article 458bis allows, in the case of offences committed against a minor or a vulnerable person, to inform the King's prosecutor." But, on the one hand, these are only offences against minors or vulnerable persons and, on the other hand, only when there is a serious and imminent danger to the integrity of the vulnerable person. We therefore ask whether, in the area of terrorism, we must wait until we are faced with the imminent danger. Isn't it already too late at that time? That is why this proposal has every reason to be, because it creates an ad hoc regime for social security institutions and, therefore, the Council of State has not called it into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u148	Mr Pivin, thank you for reminding you of certain elements. You probably forget one that I think is essential. All social services employees are targeted. Most of them, of course, have the status of civil servants. You are aware of their obligation to report crimes and offences of which they are aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u149	Article 29...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u150	It's the lifting of professional secrecy. So don't say that it's just in case of testimony, that it applies to offences against minors and that we have to wait. Other possibilities are foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u151	I did not say that and I even anticipated your comment, since I quoted article 29 by telling you that a nuance was necessary. Indeed, it deals with the obligation to report a crime or an offence, which is therefore a consummated offence, while one of the two aspects under discussion does not relate to it. The same article obliges you as a citizen to report an offence to the prosecutor, but it does not provide for you to respond to a request for information from the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u152	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u153	Yes, but it's not planned either!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u155	Mr. Massin, I have to ask you to use your microphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u156	Mr. Chairman, that is what I am doing, but the witness lamp is, unfortunately, flashing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u157	We are once again having the legal discussion we have had in committee. I have already replied. However, I must admit that such a legal discussion in French is a little more difficult to follow. If I understand correctly, you say that it is already the case today. However, you do forget that the legislation on professional secrecy is older and goes first to Articles 29 and 30. We will discuss for whom the provision applies later. In any case, it is true that every citizen already has that duty, that is entirely correct, except for those with professional secrecy. That article applies to Articles 29 and 30. For that, you must read the doctrine of justice. That is precisely why we are tackling this arrangement today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u158	Both Mrs Van Peel and Mr Pivin's speeches make systematic reference to the fight against terrorism and to immediacy. That's the term you just used. I take the joint opinion that was sent in October 2016 by the Union of Cities and Municipalities of Wallonia, the Vereniging van Vlaamse Steden en Gemeenten (VVSG) and their Brussels equivalent. According to this opinion, paragraph 3, which specifically states that information must constitute "serious evidence of the existence of a terrorist offence referred to in Book II, Title 1 ter of the Criminal Code", is dangerous. They describe this terminology, which is used in the bill, as dangerous. Here, we are not in absolute immediacy. We're going through some serious clues. That will be part of my speech just now. How can one put sliders and tags in relation to this at any given time? With regard to your speech, Mrs Van Peel, and the questions I asked Mr Pivin, I repeat that all the CPAS federations oppose this particular part. That is the great difficulty of this text. I would add that all actors on the ground are also opposed to this in Flanders. That's why I asked you how you react to that. A group of Brussels CPAS secretaries expressed their opposition. Finally, I would like to remind Mrs Van Peel that this opposition, although very firm in relation to this paragraph, was also expressed by the VVSG. Let us not be mistaken in the arguments!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u159	Excuse me, I lost sight of your question earlier. I have the deepest respect for these institutions and for these federations, but when I read their text and other statements in the press, I realized that there was a lot of bad information, perhaps not enough pedagogy or explanations. I have also seen a variety of reasons that were expressed, some saying that the law is too vague, others that we do not need this law. Finally, I have the impression that the people who have spoken against, have expressed themselves against a text that is not the one we are discussing today. That's my feeling. And the federations, which I respect deeply, – excuse me to say, Mr Vanden Burre – do not hold the truth, nor do we. I am therefore not going to kneel before a phrase, an expression or an argument emanating from a federation, whether from Wallonia, Flanders or Brussels. I do not share the view expressed on this subject. Why? Because, in my opinion, it starts from a completely wrong premise, which is to say that we want to make all social workers employees, in the wrong sense of the word, of justice, of indicators and that we want, in the end, to do coping through social assistants. That is not at all what is discussed in this bill. What we are talking about, in any case, and – I think I can say – in the eyes of all groups of the majority, is better cooperation between social workers and judicial institutions. We should be able to join on this point. Indeed, it is a means of combating terrorism. Moreover, you know that because you participated in the committee's work and you were present at the hearings, it is a philosophy that has been stressed by several speakers in the Attentats committee. The boss of Fedasil and the boss of the Office of Foreigners told us that they were seeking better cooperation with social institutions. As far as I am concerned, I share this philosophy, which is also found at the communal level, in the CSILs, where there is an exchange of information and where social workers also participate. It is therefore high time to extend this philosophy to include social security institutions and, more specifically, CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u160	I am not a member of the committee, but I would like to respond to what you have just said. You note that federations and social workers are concerned about and mobilize on a text or provisions that are not those contained in today's text. I insist on the next point. There are already binding provisions for these social workers. When they detect disturbing elements, they must report it. However, you consider that in the specific case of terrorism, they must report it differently. But since this is not justified in their eyes, it is normal for them to worry and to think that they are invented rules for a particular subject, whereas they can fully respond to these concerns without having to modify the device as you anticipate here. If you're aiming for a better philosophy of collaboration, it's not the right way to do it! This must be built around values, ways of working together but not around a piece of legislation whose intention is not shared. Today, social workers feel threatened. At the limit, they will not be able to collaborate properly because they are disqualified in the way they do their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u161	I'll try to explain one more time. For radicalisation there are the LIVCs, that's right. This is about terrorist crimes. You want to know why the social assistants came out on the street? I'll read it to you. This is from the letter from the VVSG. It was the third time in a row that this was written: "The Van Peel Act obliges individual OCMW personnel to report signals of terrorist crimes or possible radicalisation to the King's Attorney." That's obviously false. They know that. I've told them that time and time again. And then I haven't read the French texts yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u162	In conclusion, we are in favour of a change in the functioning of the partnership between social operators and operators of justice. We note that in other countries, whether in France or Denmark, another dynamic has taken place, with better collaboration between all actors. This is what some have called, particularly in the context of the committee of inquiry, the "security community". We are in favour of a larger security community, in which we must be able to join the social workers without a state of mind and under the guise of a law that protects them and is certainly not there to worry them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u163	Since you referred to the work of the committee of inquiry, I wanted to react because I am also a part of it. We have heard the same things and we share the recognition of the need for better information and an intelligence community. Our dispute in this debate is not there. Above all, I do not want to give the impression that we do not agree with these observations which are made in the Committee of Inquiry, because we fully agree with them. Here, the real change in society brought about by this text, in the wrong direction in our view, is the part that concerns the active obligation to inform, which is contained in a short paragraph. And that we have never discussed in the committee of inquiry, except when we have heard, for other reasons, the heads of the CPAS federations, and they have told us, even if it was not the subject of the hearing, how opposed they were to this text. Let's not let the committee of inquiry know what it's not saying. Yes to better collaboration, but there has never been any mention of an active obligation and such a provision. Let's not mix the subjects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u164	Minister, first of all I am pleased that we can finally debate in your presence, Minister. This bill has already caused a lot of commotion. It has been discussed repeatedly in committee. However, we have never had the opportunity to hear the views of the government and the Minister of Justice. I believe that the proposal is in line with what the government wants to do in relation to the fight against terrorism. In my view, there are a number of questions which remain open and which I would very much like to put to you as Minister of Justice. Although I will mainly address myself to the government, I must say the following to Mrs van Peel. Her statement, which she made when leaving the Chamber, that there should be no discussion on the proposed measures, and we have been discussing the text for a very long time, which does not fit in with Parliament. This is a sensitive issue that affects a lot of people working on safety and social work. I think we should discuss this. I believe that the comments made by my fellow Members in committee are worth discussing. Furthermore, you are suggesting that the opposition, in this case the Socialists, is less concerned about an efficient security policy. We are equally shocked by the events in Maalbeek and Paris. I don't need to read letters to be shocked. When I visit some of my staff who are still under discussion today, I know what we are talking about. On that basis, I have no pretence to say that you would be less committed than I am. We have once agreed here that, across the borders of majority and opposition, we must work together to find ways of achieving the highest level of security for our country. You will always have an ally at sp.a to work on an efficient security policy. And we will take on this role with great enthusiasm. I haven't missed a committee meeting yet. We will also bring our expertise into the debate. So we are very committed to the debate, which must result in an efficient security policy. I read today Mr Degroote's reaction to a report that we discussed yesterday in the committee of the P Committee and which concludes that the use of military personnel has not reduced the workload of the police. Now, Minister, I can give you a whole series of conclusions that are on the table with the government. Moreover, I have learned that any report we receive from the P Committee is also being submitted to the government, which we have been discussing for a long time and which is also being put forward from the police forces, with a view to improving the efficiency of security policy, but which, for some reason, is getting under the dust and which is not being done. For example, nothing is being done about the problem that police services perceive in relation to the coherence of the terrorist threat recommendations, even if it is written in black and white in their reports. The same applies to structural problems. In fact, we read in all kinds of reports that there is a structural problem, and Mrs Van Peel has also referred to it about the flow of information between the federal and local police. We read that. We know that. Two years ago, we knew that. Last year, we knew that. It is absurd that police forces responsible for supervising radicalised or potential terrorists should be able to view public cameras in their area, except when they are in a station or a metro. That problem would have been solved two years ago. That problem would be solved last year. I understand from your colleague, the Home Secretary, last week that there will be a new law on the exchange of camera data. People keep muddying. Nor is it new that, according to reports, LIVC has still not been established in some places, even in vulnerable areas. However, the government rightly focuses on the LIVCs, because they can ensure that data are correctly exchanged at local level, including between social services and local police services. Nor is there any policy to force its creation. I must also say, like the summit of our security services, that I am shocked at the fact that secret reports of State Security are suddenly on a website or given by a minister to a member of the Flemish Parliament, which basically undermines the functioning of the State's Security. There's no response to that. I haven't heard that one or the other would be prosecuted. However, this should be done, as one explains. You don't have to hang it on my nose. In short, I can only repeat the words of the people of the Security of the State and of the OCAD, with whom I sat at the table last week, that such practices are particularly damaging to the operation of the intelligence services and that there will be a very great reticency to share confidential information, not only with outsiders but also with police forces. That's what I'm told. I see no indignation with the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Justice. You shouldn't hang it on my nose, but those things happen, even under terrorist threat level 3. I can also assume, Minister, that there are urgent questions on your table about the way police services should act against people who have psychiatric problems and are dangerous. Those questions are on your table and on the table of the Home Secretary. From my experience, I know that these typologies come back to the OCAD list. From the police world, people are asking for or crying out for clarity about this. Those questions remain unanswered. Everything's being pushed off the track. People don't look at it. The LIVCs, which were not established, are not now being established either. It's gonna stay that way. Then what's gonna happen? Two legislative proposals, one of the N-VA and one of the MR. That's the deal. They must each have a symbol, but the question of whether this will increase efficiency is never dealt with as a matter of substance. That's exactly what I'm trying to get here. I am addressing you in particular, as a responsible and competent minister. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we, too, have repeated it at every meeting, Mrs van Peel, and I would like to reiterate that it has been shocked as regards the Minister for Foreign Affairs when OCMW's pertinent refusal to provide information, despite the request of the prosecutor. We were perhaps as indignant as many of you. So we do not really have much to say about the first part of the legislative proposal. We have made this clear on several occasions. A second matter was raised a moment ago: I am really afraid of the way in which people are obliged to report serious indications. It should be made clear what is meant by that. What are these serious clues? An example was given, but there was no answer. What does it mean that all these social assistants are mandatory? Are you sure this is about social assistants? The applicant explained that the cook and gardener of the OCMW, who, in my view, are not bound by professional secrecy, also have an additional duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u165	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u166	Mrs. Van Peel, you said: "If the chef finds a bomb in his soup, he has to..." I am not under any illusions as to whether the majority will approve this, because the compromise between MR and N-VA must be maintained, but if you approve a law, you must be able to answer the questions of those outside those who feel affected by that law, whether they are covered or not. There is the greatest lack of clarity about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u167	Mr President, may I say something? Mr Bonte knows I can't stay. I warned him. I am very sorry and very sorry about that. Mr Bonte, all those who are not mentioned in the bill and you mention, for example, the cook, are of course subject to Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Those people are not kept by professional secrecy and they must report to the court under Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where there is an indication of a crime. As far as the LIVCs are concerned, I understand that your colleague on the Committee on Justice, Mrs Lambrecht, is well aware of this: there will be a general draft law, which is currently before the Committee on Justice, to incorporate professional secrecy into the framework of the LIVCs and the case-by-case consultation. We are also working on this and your call in this regard is being followed up. My humble apology for interrupting you. You know why, I'll never do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u168	Minister, you did indeed inform me about ten minutes or fifteen minutes ago that you could not stay. Mr President, I believe that we will have a problem with the parliamentary treatment of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u169	It's one or the other. Either you made an appointment, as I was told...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u170	Mr. Geens, you came to tell me here 15 minutes ago. I am now explicitly addressing the government. It is the first time that we can do that after five meetings. Minister, the government is at Parliament's disposal, isn't it? Mr President, the Minister has come to tell me that he needs to go to a television studio. Mr President, it is up to you to decide what is more important, whether it is a parliamentary debate or a TV action by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u171	I think it is normal for at least one member of the government to be present. That seems to me to be the logic itself. Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u172	Mr President, I am quite prepared to come back at about 8:30 p.m. I had reached an agreement with all the speakers, including Mr. Bonte.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u173	Mr President, with all due respect for the work done, good and clear agreements are always made at the Conference of Presidents. Last week this proposal was moved to this week's agenda because the Minister could not be present at that time. He announced that in time. At the moment we are having the debate in the presence of the Minister, but ten minutes ago he said that he cannot stay because he has to participate in a television show. I am very sorry, but we also have our work here and there are also agreements here. Either we are holding the debate in the presence of the Minister or the debate is suspended and postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here with a proposal from a colleague. It's about a bill, not a bill. This proposal was discussed in detail in the Committee on Terrorism. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u175	No, I'm not saying that. But there is still a member of the government present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u176	(...) We asked for a debate with the Minister of Justice at all committee meetings and we were promised to have that debate here. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u177	Mr Bonte, I will give you the floor when you ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u178	Mr President, are we going to continue the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u179	Mr President, we know that this is a very important and sensitive debate. There is a great deal of emotion among the population concerned, including social workers, but also the magistrates and lawyers, who have also spoken. A whole section of civil society has made its voice heard. This case is serious enough for not only the Minister of Social Integration, but also the Minister of Justice to be present. If the latter were, for example, to go to a European summit, we would of course have understood that. Another minister, such as Mr Borsus, could have replaced him. However, it is simply a matter of appearing before the media and thus avoiding adversarial debate in Parliament. Mr President, this is not right! This indicates contempt for Parliament and for all those who fear the consequences of such a bill. I therefore ask you to insist that he be present at this fundamental debate for our values.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u180	Mr President, I know that this is a very delicate debate, and I also know that a great deal has been said about it in the committees. What I am always saying in this kind of discussion is that we are actually doing committee meetings again in plenary. I don't understand that very well, but apparently that's the custom and over the years I've only been here ten years... [[Tumult]] The truth hurts, of course. I guess the truth hurts. If people are now saying that the presence of the Minister of Justice is necessary, that is not a problem at all. I understand he can come back at 8:30. He made that clear, that's in an hour. Then we wait. I have already seen contradictory signals, but, once again, the government is represented, even by two members, even by the minister responsible for the OMCWs. In this way, I believe that there is sufficient representation, especially when it comes to the sensitivities of social assistants, whether or not linked to OCMWFs. In this respect, everyone who has to hold the debate is indeed present. If we stretch it a little, as we are doing, we can continue it in half an hour or an hour, perhaps in the presence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u181	In the speeches so far it has been mainly about the social workers. The Minister responsible is present, so I suggest that we continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u182	Mr President, I would like to say two things. Firstly, my group and other groups have always asked for the presence of the Minister of Justice in the discussions on the legislative proposal before us in committee and in plenary. In committee, there has never been any mention of this. There has never been a debate on this proposal in the presence of the Minister, while the Minister has come here to state that the government is also working on legislation in this area. So we do not have the chance to hear the opinion of the government and we do not have the chance to assess the implications of adopting this proposal on other legislation or on the intentions of the government. I understand that last week at the Conference of Presidents the two legislative proposals were postponed because the Minister of Justice could not be present. That's good. We have agreed to this. The discussion of these proposals was postponed for a week, until this week, and then suddenly the Minister is on his way to television and so we do not even get an answer to our question. Secondly, and I am also addressing you explicitly, Mr President, it is a punishment that we should have such a debate here. A member of the government must be at Parliament's disposal. Period. That is a constitutional rule of play, and you must ensure that it is respected. This is a Kafka situation. When Parliament requests and receives the presence of a member of the government, it is the logic itself that the Member concerned should be present. It's not that hard!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u183	Mr President, as Mr Terwingen has said, we have had interesting debates in committee. But at no time was the Minister of Justice present in committee, while legitimate questions arose, particularly on my part to Mr Borsus, including what we doubted might happen. It could therefore legitimately be expected that the Minister of Justice would be present in plenary if interventions or inquiries were to take place, in order to avoid having to ask questions in committee afterwards. He's not here. That's not right! On the other hand, today there is a lot of talk about respect for democracy. We're talking a lot about good governance. Much is said about parliamentary work, the involvement of parliamentarians and the presence of parliamentarians in the debate. Today, we deplore the absence of the Minister of Justice, who, in the foreground, even more than the Minister of Social Integration, must be concerned about the protection of fundamental freedoms and the scope of professional secrecy. He is not here to hear what parliamentarians say. That is what we call the denial of democracy. It is a real scandal, an affront to the whole of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u184	Mr President, I was not at the Conference in question myself, but once that agreement has been made, I think it is right that it should be respected. However, let us be pragmatic about this. The Home Secretary is here now, let's start the next debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u185	That would also be my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u186	As is often the case, Mr President, we are spontaneously on the same lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u187	Great mindsenzo on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u188	Mr President, we are dealing here with a legislative proposal and not a draft law. This is about the professional secrecy of OCMW personnel. The Minister responsible for the OCMW's is here. There's also a link to the administrative police. The Home Secretary, Deputy Prime Minister, is here. The Minister of Justice has always been here, until a few minutes ago. He said he had to leave for an hour. He also reported this to you, Mr. Bonte. You didn't resist that. The government is represented by the Minister responsible. I propose that we continue the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that we have been very constructive in this debate. It is also true, however, that we regretted, from the first committee, the absence of any member of the government in our work. I find that on such an important, sensitive subject on which public opinion has been asked a whole series of questions, which have not been answered by the government and which have led us to agree to postpone our debates for a week, it is amazing that we will not have a member of the government to discuss it again today. In any case, the Minister of Justice will not be present in plenary to hear and answer our questions. It is already curious that this is a bill, not a bill, and that it is not carried by the government as a whole. I think on such a sensitive subject, Mr Borsus, it would have been better if the Minister of Justice could have heard all the questions that arose in committee and could answer them from the outset. We may have been able to exclude from the outset some caricatures, some misinterpretations of the bill or of the bill under consideration today. I do not want us to continue this debate in the absence of the Minister of Justice, and I would like to have his presence waited for him to hear our interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u190	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, with all due respect, good agreements make good friends. You say the Minister of Justice has not been present. But why did we postpone the bill last week? Because the Minister of Justice couldn't be here. It's either one or the other. We changed the agenda. The reason was that the minister could not be present. We are having the debate today. He was there. One cannot say ten minutes in advance that one cannot be present because one has to be on television. I can't. We are having the debate here in Parliament. We ask that the Minister of Justice be present at the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u191	Mr President, Parliament is obviously free to work, but I would like to correct something about the committee. I have formally written to the latter to express my opinion. I also indicated, at the end of this letter, that I was available for the committee. I have not at any time been required to be present in committee, which has not prevented me from following all of his work carefully. On this issue, it is clear that an important part concerns the federations of CPAS, which I have received on several occasions, with which I have conducted a series of consultations and debated. These interlocutors, in any case in this debate, have been, through their federation, leadership or structure, the most active. I am therefore fully available with regard to this debate. I must correct the fact that we would not have been available for the committee, because that is incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u192	Mr President, Mr Kitir does not correctly reflect the facts. I refer to the agenda. In fact, we postponed two legislative proposals that were tabled last week, because the presence of the Minister of Justice was advisable. These were the first two legislative proposals that were on the agenda today. They belong to the area of competence of the Minister of Justice. He was also present at the meeting. That does not apply, however, to this legislative proposal, Mr Kitir. Minister Borsus is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u193	Mr President, I particularly welcome the statement made by Minister Borsus. I, along with many others in the committee, have called for the government to be present to know the government's position, to know the consistency with the decisions relating to the LIVCs and with other drafts, which seem to be in the making. So I, along with many colleagues in the committee, have called for the presence of the government, especially that of the Minister of Justice. I now hear through your reply, Minister for Social Integration, that you had formally and in writing informed the committee that you had been at the disposal of the committee. Then why didn't you ever get invited? I am also addressing the chairman of our committee. Part of Parliament asks for the presence of members of the government and the Minister says he is available, but then there will be somewhere I do not know where and with what motives... decides that the Minister does not have to come. Mr President, I do not think that is an orderly way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u194	Mr President, I cannot help but ask myself this question: what is the purpose of the bill that is currently being debated? It is an amendment to the Code of Criminal Investigation – I say the Code. I cannot understand that the Minister of Justice – I was going to say the Minister of Codes, the Civil Code, the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Investigation, the Commercial Code – is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip166x.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go further on that last point. I think we are better off holding the debate in the presence of the Minister of Justice. Having regard to Mr Calvo's proposal and using the presence of the Minister for the Interior, I propose to the Chamber that we suspend the discussion on one point pending the presence of the Minister for Justice. I propose that, after a five-minute break, which I should like to make clear for our technical installations, we continue our agenda with the discussion of Mr Ducarme's legislative proposal. I therefore propose to examine Mr Ducrame's proposal on the mayors and to continue the other debate in the presence of the Minister of Justice. Does everyone agree? Is everyone okay with that? [[Assent]] The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 4 May 2017 at 7.50 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, May 4, 2017 at 7.50 p.m.
