ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic573x.u1	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Minister of Energy, Marie-Christine Marghem, said following conversations with Elia, that it is possible to develop an additional 1,400 MW of offshore wind in the Belgian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Do you confirm that you have, as Secretary of State in charge of the North Sea, a space available in this EEZ in order to develop an additional 1,400 MW? Do you confirm this objective of developing these 1,400 MW of offshore wind? If you create new maritime zones dedicated to the development of offshore wind energy, are you going to retain the concession mechanism or are you going to be inspired by the Dutch system in particular, because there are others, tendering? Have you already identified an action plan, a timetable and a practical agenda for the development of such a project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic573x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. Let me first explain to you the current situation. Our area in the north-eastern part of the North Sea currently produces 712 MW spread over three wind farms. However, in total, we have nine state-owned concessions with a capacity of nearly 2,300 MW. These nine concessions have already been granted, but the Elias development plan you mention in your question, however, refers to an additional development of offshore wind energy. Elia considered, in the context of the continued energy transition, that the production capacity of renewable energy in Belgian territorial waters may exceed the current limit. However, if an additional area is to be established and may be desirable, it must be part of the proposed process for revising the marine spatial planning plan that I will be setting up in early February. We are currently revising this plan to better develop the North Sea project. In addition, the start of this process requires public consultation; we will need to consult with many people and stakeholders. We hope to adopt the final plan in 2019. The operational phase will take place in 2020, after the next elections. I do not exclude from the outset any further development because the international market is also evolving with a substantial reduction in prices. However, we must pay attention to the way in which this additional development can be considered, because we have found that the system of concessions created ten years ago causes many problems. I am currently looking at how best to achieve sustainable energy development conditions in the North Sea compared to the next three parks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic573x.u3	Mr. Secretary of State, I understand that everything is to be built. There is first the plan, the public inquiry and then the continuation of the procedure with or without a call for tenders. You are well aware that the cost of concessions is decreasing dramatically. Between the last two offshore wind concessions that have just been signed and what the Dutch have just obtained, the price has decreased by half. The figures are important. I hear your calendar, 2019. Then we'll see the concessions. We will return to that, but the conversations with Elia must continue. They have just resumed, and that is why I wanted clarification from you. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic573x.u4	Mr Senesael requested the postponement of his question No 16085. Mr. Secretary of State, I am sorry to have brought you here for a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic573x.u5	I am at the disposal of Parliament, Madam President.
