ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u1	Questions Nos 15434, 15813, 15814, 15815, 15816, 15817 and 15818 by Mr Vanvelthoven are converted into written questions to his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u2	Minister, one of the signs of a higher degree of goodness, a requirement for an assessment based on signs and Indians, is the purchase or ownership of a yacht, in Belgium or abroad. Each yacht in Belgium has a flag letter, due to the mandatory registration with the DIV. This is similar to a license plate for car dynamometers. I would like to hear from you whether the tax auditors have that information? Are those data used for risk analysis and selection? Is there a systematic exchange of information on such data with other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u3	Mr Minister, a recent report by the Court of Auditors has examined how the tax administration is taxing on the basis of signs and indices. Noting that the results of the index checks are rather modest, the Court notes that "establishing a probative index statement proves to be a difficult operation in the absence of an overall property cadastre per taxpayer." This problem identified during the audit is also a problem for the selection of files. The report notes that the TACM (Tax Audit & Compliance Management) service "selects files for index control actions from a risk analysis. However, the in-depth nature of this analysis depends on the availability and quality of information sources and data banks. The absence of an overall heritage cadastre complicates the selection of files to be checked on the basis of risk profiles and results in many ‘false positive' results." The Court of Auditors further states that "the possibilities to consult the register of accounts at the central contact point and to request the lifting of bank secrecy are used only in a limited way in the context of index checks". Mr Minister, are you considering taking steps to resolve this problem identified by the Court of Auditors? If so, which ones? Should we not simplify the lifting of bank secrecy in order to remove the obstacles identified by the Court in relation to index control, which certainly also concern other forms of control? Do you not find that the decision of the administration to add to the 2.25 days of control provided for index taxation, three more days in case of waiver of bank secrecy – bringing the total duration to 233% of the initial time – demonstrates the cumbersomeness of the procedure? In order to combat fraud effectively, should the FPS Finances not be able to select the files to be checked, with all the banking data of natural and legal persons, through the abolition of bank secrecy and the establishment of a property cadastre?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u4	I'll take your first two questions together, Mr. Van Hees. Measures that could be taken to establish an overall property cadastre per taxpayer should be the subject of a debate outside the strict framework of taxation on the basis of signs and indications and concerning the balance that must exist between respect for the right to privacy and the fight against tax evasion. In addition, I draw your attention to the fact that, in order to establish an index situation, the administration can already rely on a set of elements that are not limited to the banking data obtained from the central contact point. These include, for example, information taken from a corporation's accounts, information obtained from other tax services, or data received as part of the international exchange of information for tax purposes. Let me turn to your third question. Simplifying the lifting of bank secrecy does not seem appropriate to me. The index tax procedure is no heavier than the tax procedure carried out on the basis of fraud indices. The Court of Auditors does not in any way indicate that consultation with the central point of contact is an obstacle to the establishment of index taxation. It simply notes that the possibility of consulting the register of accounts at the central point of contact is used only in a limited way in the context of index checks. In order to answer your fourth question, the increase in the workload provided for in the event of the lifting of bank secrecy is not only a function of the procedure to be applied as such. It also takes into account the time that the taxer will have to devote to the analysis of the elements received and the overlaps to be carried out with other previously obtained elements. On the fifth question, the administration selects the files to be checked, in the context of the index control actions, taking into account the data sources currently available to it. As the Court of Auditors points out, it constantly strives to refine risk profiles in order to increase the productivity of index stocks. With this in mind, it will ensure that it makes the best use of the new elements it may have in the future. Mr Vanvelthoven, as the Court of Auditors' report clearly demonstrates, my administration is currently unable to access the file of the flag letters of boats flying the Belgian flag. My administration, on the other hand, has information on the trailers for boats. That information allows us to assume that it is an assumption that the purchase of a boat took place. This shall be taken into account when drawing up risk profiles for the selection of files to be checked in the context of individual control actions. I have asked my administration to investigate how to access the file of sailing licences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u5	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The trailer is the back door for tracking a number of boats and that is of course a good thing. It would, of course, be better, Minister, if you could have direct access to that file. That is why I think it is right that you have asked your administration to consider how this access can be regulated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u6	Minister, first of all, I know that you are opposed to the idea of a cadastre for property matters and a real and complete lifting of bank secrecy. You remind us of what I already knew. I do not see a solution to the problem referred to in this report by the Court of Auditors on the link between the absence of this cadastre and the difficulty of indexing taxation. Secondly, you say that there are other elements involved. Indeed, there are other factors involved in making an index tax. In particular, you quote tax information from abroad. There is a disproportion between the absence of bank secrecy for information coming from abroad and the maintenance of bank secrecy for information in our own banks in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u7	Minister, many hobby brewers are active in Flanders. They are not unimportant to our economy, some make their dream come true and grow into true beer companies. The IRS makes it quite difficult for these hobby brewers to practice their hobby in a number of areas. For example, there is the Ministerial Decree of 1 February 1994 and also the brochure of the FPS Finances Excises/Beer brewing................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Article 26 of the MB states that individuals producing beer for their own use, for members of their families or their guests, are subject to Article 24 of that MB, provided that there is no sale. This means that they must report their activity to the FOD, the so-called possession declaration 108. As such, that provision is not so problematic as hobby brewers do not have to pay excise duties. But problematic, so organizations of hobby brewers let us know, is what is in the brochure of the FPS Finance. In point 3.6, it states, inter alia, that a hobby brewer must not do the following: " (...) organise on a regular basis degassations, even free of charge, under the pretext that its participants are the producer's guests; participate in competitions or tastings." The organisations argue that it is logical that hobby brewers would like to have their own brewed beer tasted by friends, acquaintances and fellow hobby brewers, without the intention of profiting from it. They also do not understand why hobby brewers should not participate in competitions without commercial profit. There are plenty of home brewers competitions and such more. I can imagine that hobby brewers would like to know what connoisseurs or other audiences think of their brew compared to those of their international colleagues or not. It is reported that people abroad look very strangely at the fact that those hobby brewers from the country of beer are muzzled in this area. Hence my questions for you, Minister. Is it true what that brochure says, namely that the hobby brewers are not allowed to organise degassations unremunerated for acquaintances and family? Are they not allowed to participate in competitions and tastings, even if they are unpaid? If this is true, under what laws or regulations is that the case? What is the ratio behind that arrangement? Do you intend to change that arrangement so that it will be possible for those hobby brewers, provided it is free of charge and there is no commercial gain attached to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u8	Indeed, the law provides for an exemption from excise duty on beer produced by a private individual and consumed by this private individual, the members of his family or his guests, as long as there is no sale. It is therefore a question of brewing beer in the private sphere without any commercial activity, even free of charge. A hobby brewer who regularly organises degustations, even free of charge, under the pretext that its participants are his guests, is not subject to the conditions of this exemption. This does not include the participation of a hobby brewer in competitions or tastings, the so-called pilot breweries. Since it is an exemption from the payment of excise duties, the conditions for complying with this exemption, as in all other cases of exemption from excise duty, should be strictly applied. The administration will examine the possibility of making the situation between wine and beer uniform in the case of the possession declaration in the context of administrative simplification. If this is the case, a possession declaration will no longer be required for a private owner of appliances capable of producing beer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u9	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I understand that both the conditions set out in the brochure do not apply as a condition for exemption for excise duties, but I have not been given an answer to my question as to what regulations are based on to prohibit competitions, tastings and tastings for guests and family guests to hobby brewers. If I do not get an answer to that, I must conclude from that that you do not intend to amend the rules to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u10	We have no news of Mr Friart, so his question No 15308 is irrelevant. The same applies to question No 15309 by Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u11	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, one year after a first agreement reached at the government table, the tax shelter mechanism is expected to soon apply to the performing arts, following the passage of the bill in December 2016. As you know, the cultural industries are now facing major problems in terms of their revenue, in particular because of the reduction in subsidies from the Community authorities. These difficulties and the chronic investment deficit undermine structures and unfortunately undermine the development of cultural entrepreneurship. It is therefore gratifying that the federal government has taken up this issue with a tax incentive that will allow companies to invest in the performing arts. Of course, the tax shelter already existed for cinematographic works, but this time the executive goes a step further. Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the progress that this legislation has made in promoting cultural industries and to obtain some clarification. With the new regime, what exactly is the possibility of setting up ad hoc companies so that the structures organised in the ASBL can avoid being subject to corporate tax? To what extent does the tax administration still allow this mechanism? Can you also give us more details on the possibility of deferral in the event of a shortage of taxable reserved profits? Can the exemption not be used because of the limits imposed by law be carried over to the next taxable period? What will be the date of publication of the law? Can you confirm that the coming into force is scheduled for February 1, 2017? When will the royal decrees of execution be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u12	Mr Minister, my question concerns the extension of the tax shelter to the performing arts and the latest regulation adopted last year. It aims to clarify and correctly interpret the provision in that draft law on non-profit organisations. I'm declaring myself. The draft law provides that the scheme must subject the non-profit organisations to corporate tax. On average, for four years, non-profit organisations qualifying as a production company will be subject to corporation tax, even if they were previously subject to the tax on legal persons. This subjection to corporation tax shall be without prejudice to the application of Article 182 of the Income Tax Code. The question has arisen as to what is meant by this, since the Explanatory Memorandum to the draft law does not mention the intention of this article. Article 182 of the WIB states that for non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making transactions, in particular: single or exceptional transactions, transactions consisting of investments in funds collected in the context of the statutory contract, and transactions consisting of an activity involving only incidental industrial, commercial or agricultural operations or not carried out according to industrial or commercial methods. A possible interpretation of the legal reservation is described by the specialized press as follows: A non-profit association subject to the corporation tax should in principle be subject to corporation tax as soon as it acts as a production company or as an intermediary, although the subjection to the legal person tax may nevertheless be retained as soon as it appears that it concerns only one of the abovementioned exceptions, or a single or exceptional operation. I come to my questions. Firstly, can you clarify exactly what is meant by the legal reservation on the application of Article 182 of the Income Tax Code? Secondly, do you agree with the above view as expressed in the specialized press? Thirdly, do you intend to elaborate on the whole issue of the subjection of non-profit organisations to corporation tax, for example in a circular or in a list of frequently asked questions, so as to clarify the interpretation and the precise purpose of the rule? If so, what timing do you provide?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u13	Mrs Smaers, Mr Calomne, the law on the exemption of income invested in a framework agreement for the production of a stage work was published in the Belgian Monitor on 17 January 2017, so yesterday. It shall enter into force directly and the provisions shall apply to the framework conventions signed from the first day of the month following that publication, i.e. on 1 February 2017. A Royal Implementing Order concerning the terms and conditions of the procedure for the approval of production companies and eligible intermediaries is currently seeking an opinion from the Council of State. My intention is to have this royal order published as soon as possible after receipt of this notice. The Act comes into force on the same date as the coming into force of the Act. Licensed production companies that sign a framework agreement for the production of a stage work shall be subject to corporate tax for the taxation year related to a taxable period during which they have concluded that framework agreement pursuant to Article 194ter and for the following three taxation years. The law does not prohibit the structures organized in the ASBL from creating a company whose main object will be the production of stage works for the presentation of these works by the founding ASBL. It must be borne in mind, however, that this company must then be approved and that it must also fulfil the conditions laid down in the tax shelter scheme in order for investors to benefit from the exemption provided for in Article 194ter, including the exemption to expose all eligible Belgian expenditure. The temporary exemption from which an investor could benefit following the signature during the same taxable period of a framework agreement for a stage work and a framework agreement for an audiovisual work shall be limited to 50 % of the taxable reserved profits of that taxable period, with a maximum of EUR 750 000. These limits therefore apply in a global manner for the determination of exemptions that may be obtained in the context of the tax shelter for audiovisual works and the tax shelter for stage works. In accordance with Article 194b, in the event of the absence or insufficiency of profits of a taxable period for which the temporary exemption may be claimed, the exemption not granted for that period shall be carried over successively to the profits of the following four taxable periods without the exemption in any taxable period exceeding the limits of 50 % and 750 000 euros. In other words, where the exemption exceeds the 50% limit of taxable reserved profits of the taxable period, the exemption is granted for that period only up to that 50% limit. The surplus may, however, be carried over to the profits of the following four taxable periods within the limits provided for. In the case where the exemption for the taxable period exceeds the amount of EUR 750 000, the exemption is in any case limited to that amount. The excess of this amount of EUR 750 000 cannot be deducted in the following taxable periods. The sector is very welcoming to this new measure and many are planning to embark on a new, larger, more ambitious project. The level of investment will depend on the level of projects undertaken. Indeed, it seems that, on the part of investors, supply is higher than demand. Mrs Smaers, as parliamentary documents show, it is indeed intended that non-profit-making associations and other legal entities should also be able to act as production companies. Those non-profit-making associations and other legal persons shall be subject to corporation tax or to the taxation of non-resident companies for the taxable period in which they conclude a framework agreement under the tax relief measures for performing arts and for the following three tax years. The legal reservation to which you refer does indeed create confusion, as it is not intended to exclude the submission to corporate tax in the cases you mention. That provision will indeed be amended. My administration always strives to discuss new legal provisions in a circular that is published within an acceptable period of time. This will also be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u14	Minister, I am pleased that you confirm that there is a favourable reception on the part of the sector. That's positive. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for clarifying that reservation in a circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u16	I had question No. In her absence, Mrs Jadin deleted 15309, but it was converted into a written question in her question. Joined Questions No 15529 by Mrs Fonck and No 15676 by Mrs Gerkens are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u17	Mr President, Minister, on 16 August I sent you a written question on the issue of the importation of timber. Indeed, Belgium imports wood from different species for many uses. Some of these wood species come from Africa. The problem lies in the traceability of imports. Greenpeace's 2015 timber trade report highlighted that many timber was produced in Cameroon for illegal export under international standards and regulations. Among the actors, there is the Compagnie de Commerce et de Transport, which is attacked and continued in other states, which supplies in Cameroon without paying attention to compliance with the requirements for the exploitation of forests. This company is involved in financing corruption and instability in these regions. In 2014, 280,000 tons of wood, of which Cameroonian wood arrived at the port of Antwerp, notably through the Compagnie de Commerce et de Transport. I asked Minister Marghem because I was surprised that we were not reacting in Belgium in the same way as in other states, particularly in the face of such imports. This is where the control of local exporters and producers goes. In her response, the minister told me that she was powerless, that she was not in a position to verify where the exported timber came from – we are talking about exporting countries, firms involved and exporters – because the customs documents did not include documents related to these aspects. That's why I interviewed you in August. In your answer, you acknowledge, in a way, that customs policy is inappropriate to this situation since you say that it is not mandatory to fill in the boxes where the origin of the wood and the exporting company are mentioned. I am surprised at this lack of information on timber, since Belgium and the European Union have embarked on a series of mechanisms to control this trade. We know CITES, which is concerned with the protection of endangered animal and plant species, as well as European Regulation 995/2010, which obliges operators who place wood on the markets of European countries to prove that it has been produced, imported and exported in compliance with the rules. Moreover, our Belgian operators have a duty of diligence, i.e. to prove that they have made every effort to ensure that the wood they imported was produced in accordance with the rules of good logging. If they do not have access to this customs information on the origin of this wood, their task will be more complicated. Minister, in your August 2016 reply, you made it clear to me that it was not mandatory to include this information in customs documents, but you acknowledged that this was an inappropriate procedure in relation to the requirements of the timber trade. Since August 2016, have there been any changes? Are there any avenues in this direction? Can we consider making these entries mandatory in customs documents? Does this non-requirement to mention this information apply only to the timber trade or to all other products imported into our country that may be related to a regulation other than that of wood?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u18	Are there any other speakers who want to speak on this issue because this is an inquiry? It was also appropriate to have a motion if Ms. Gerkens tabled one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u19	Mr. Chair, if the minister maintains the non-obligation, I will table one. If he doesn't keep it, I won't drop it off.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, I will answer each of your three questions. First, in 2013, the European Commission drew up a multi-annual strategic plan to ensure that all customs administrations work in a single network, both for the preparation of all declarations and for real-time online tracking of merchandise flows and for the exchange of the results of checks and risk analyses. The first step was the implementation of the new single document on 1 January 2007. Belgium issued the explanatory note on the same date. The Union Customs Code entered into force on 1 May 2016. No changes had to be made to the customs and excise declaration. Second, box 2 of the single document relating to the consignor or exporter is not mandatory for importation. Therefore, the reference to the shipper of wood and local producers is not included in the customs declaration. Finally, thirdly, this same box is only mandatory at the time of customs formalities relating to exports.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u21	Mr. Chair, I will have to table my motion. The Minister's response is the same as that of August 2016, which is to note that in the current document, even if it is unique, there is no obligation to mention these data on importation. This makes it de facto impossible to carry out a whole series of controls which are required by Belgium and, above all, by our importers of the timber trade. These importers must show that they respect and have inquired about the producers and those who import the wood from us. I was hoping to hear in your reply that Belgium would make it mandatory to fill in the box stating that it is the company Uniteelle that produces the wood in Cameroon and that it is routed by the importing company X. Or that you would tell me that you would ask that we negotiate at European level to make this information mandatory. Your answer did not include one of these two alternatives. The motion that I table asks for this mention in order to allow the implementation of this European regulation on the trade in timber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u22	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister of Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, asks the government to make it compulsory, during customs controls on trade in timber, to mention shippers and local producers in customs documents in order to be able to trace and effectively control timber imported into Belgium." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the answer of the Minister for Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, asks the government in order to make it compulsory, in the context of customs controls on timber trade, to indicate the consignors and local timber producers on the customs documents in order to ensure efficient traceability and control of timber imported into Belgium." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Luk Van Biesen, Eric Van Rompuy and Bert Wollants. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Luk Van Biesen, Mr Eric Van Rompuy and Mr Bert Wollants. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Questions Nos 15408, 15566, 15760 and 15761 by Mr Van Biesen are converted into written questions to his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u23	Mr President, Minister, everyone may have read that the revenue from excise duties on both alcohol and tobacco has been disappointing since the increase of 1 November 2015. However, I do not want to talk about this; the press has already taken up its responsibilities in this respect and put forward a number of points of discussion. I would like to talk about the smaller distilleries in our country, which are valued in an even way as the large companies because the excise duty system is uniform. This raises the question of taking account of the number of hectolitres produced when determining excise duties, whereas this is now arbitrary in proportion to certain elements. It is a specific question of many distilleries in this country in order to achieve a fairer system of excise duties for smaller distilleries, taking account of the hectolitres produced. Mr Minister, are you prepared to think about this and are you considering ordering the administration to set up a system that takes account of the hectolitres produced to replace the current arbitrary system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u24	Mr President, I have already given the mandate to look at this, even in a broader context. I would like a comprehensive opinion on this in the very short term. Don't forget that the BLEU also plays a role in excise materials. Certain things can be decided autonomously and others must be decided within the framework of the BLEU. I could go into more detail, but that is all very complicated. Next week Ecofin meets, and on the other hand, I have already scheduled a meeting with my colleague, Pierre Gramegna, to see to what extent they are prepared to take part in certain matters. After all, if the answer to that question is negative, we are, in a manner of speaking, obliged not to ride on one and a half legs, because the joint competence with the BLEU is quite extensive. The answer to your most important question is yes, yes, yes. The problem must be looked at. I would like to take this opportunity, however, to say that I did not wish to make a plea for lower excise duties, especially on tobacco. The health impervious dominates everything in that respect. That is so obvious that it hardly requires repetition. However, when excise duties are increased, after which prices increase and consumption decreases, it is, to express it popularly, bingo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u25	Sales are falling and not consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u26	I will express myself very neutrally. There are indications that the decrease in consumption is limited. We see a sharp increase in border purchases. The mirror image of this is sales in border areas, which vary according to the border and the specific product. Sales range from 15% to 40% on the basis of the data we now have. The illegal trade, the so-called cheap rights, is also growing very fragmentedly. Of course, there is also the electronic cigarette, for which I do not feel competent to comment on whether it is healthy, less healthy or just as bad. There is no doubt that there is still a problem with health. It should be very clear to all those who think it right with society and with the citizens that we should have this discussion in all these areas. From your suggestion, that in this way you should verify and, if necessary, apply the alcohol approach, I am fully and fully in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u27	Minister, I thank you for your efforts in this area and for your clear support for a review and reform of the excise system, taking account of the hectolitres produced. That seems to me to be an important point. Mr President, I would like to ask you, if the green light were to be given, to rush the dossier through this committee as a matter of urgency, so that we give those concerned the opportunity to compete equally with our fantastic alcohol products, which we make in this country in a limited number of hectolitres, but which are always very tasty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u28	Minister, I have a rather technical question about the diamond regime, but it is not without importance. Can Article 26 of the Income Tax Code, concerning the abnormal or auspicious benefits, be applied as regards the closure of profits from a Belgian company which is not covered by the diamond regime to a diamond dealer who is covered by the diamond regime? In other words, do you consider that an abnormal or auspicious advantage granted to the diamond dealer by a Belgian company cannot be considered eligible to determine the taxable income of the diamond dealer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u29	Mr Vanvelthoven, the application of Articles 26 and 185 and the possibility of increasing the taxable result in certain circumstances by the company's exceptional or auspicious advantages to associated parties is not excluded by the legislative text. This implies that, for example, if individual sales were found to be made at clearly too low prices, in circumstances which are not therefore market-based, that loss of profit could still be added to the taxable result. The statement accompanying the legislative amendment rightly states that the application of the abovementioned provisions, as well as Articles 79 and 207 of the WIB 92, which represent the mirror image situation, is not subject to the mere determination of the cost of the goods sold, and hence of the gross margin resulting therefrom. Therefore, since the purchase price is determined on the basis of a market-based percentage, an adjustment is not considered here. It is merely to the extent that the operation of those provisions is not specifically concerned. In other words, the diamond system leads to an end to the control difficulties, as regards any transfer pricing on the purchase side of a diamond dealer, by fixing the cost of the goods on a flat-rate basis from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u31	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to hear your evaluation of the BBI briefing. After all, you have always claimed that the BBI instruction "spontaneous" declarations were issued at the time in order to ensure uniform application throughout the country and to prevent shopping by different managements. In the meantime, the instruction no longer applies. I should like to hear from you the following, Minister. Do you believe that the design of the instruction, in particular the fight against shopping, has been successful? Have you made an evaluation of the application of the instruction? If so, can we look at that evaluation? Can we get it? I also refer to a previous parliamentary question in the context of this discussion with which I would have liked to have received some information by regional management. These included the number of files submitted, the number of files handled, the total increase in the taxable base and the total amount to be recovered. Can each regional management confirm or deny whether the extended seven-year period has been applied in all cases and whether a non-justified initial balance has been included in all cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u32	Mr Vanvelthoven, the only purpose of the BBI instruction to which you refer was indeed to avoid shopping and thus to ensure uniform treatment of taxpayers. I believe that this objective has been achieved. As of 1 August 2016, this was mainly reflected in the introduction of a permanent system of fiscal and social regularisation. Only an examination or evaluation of the recovery rates resulting from actions in application of this BBI instruction has been carried out. This shows that the tax charges established in the context of this instruction have been paid virtually in full. As regards the results in the files for which the BBI has conducted investigations in application of the BBI instruction, I can inform you of the following information. These are a total of 1 862 files submitted. The number of files handled is 1 813. The total increase in the taxable base is rounded up to EUR 535 million. The total amount of established taxes amounts to 161 million euros. As previously stated, no detailed information is kept, for these files or for others which the BBI deals with the application of the extended seven-year period, or the taking into account of a non-justified initial balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 15430 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u35	Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna try again. I've asked that question before. You said at that time that you cannot provide specific information for the sake of legal professional secrecy. It turns out that Optima Bank had thousands of customers and that communicating the number of open or reopened files is not what I am talking about the files themselves or about the customers, rather I was looking at a global state of affairs....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By the way, you announced earlier that you would open or reopen these investigations, so I would like to ask you again. How many files has the BBI opened or reopened in the meantime? A global figure, please. What is the overall state of these investigations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u36	Mr Vanvelthoven, I appreciate your perseverance or your linearity in this matter. However, I maintain my position on the attitude. In addition, I think it is appropriate to await the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on this incorruptible matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u37	I think we can discuss this in the Optima Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u38	I do not find any answers to these questions there either. It's getting a little annoying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u39	Questions Nos 15529 by Mrs Fonck and 15676 by Mrs Gerkens were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer's 15551 question was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 15623, 15625, 15626 and 15627 by Mr Gilkinet are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u40	Minister, a few dozen agents of the SPF Finances of Namur carried out a symbolic action on 22 December to demand "a computer network worthy of our time". They explained to the media: "The computer network has been bugging for years. The passage to Office 365 was the drop of water that caused the vase to overflow." The problems are twofold. First, the breakdowns: "All the work is done by network, but it does not happen one day without it failing". Then the slowness of the system. According to the tests carried out by these agents, to copy a 191 MB file, the computer displays a transfer time of 16 hours. The bandwidth posted on 26 October was 0.12 MB per second. Other tests showed 0.07. By comparison, at the home of an individual, the speed is about 50 MB per second. This slow pace of information technology is all the more serious since the thousands of job losses at the Finance FPS in recent years are most often justified by computerisation. Minister, do you confirm these computer problems? What are they due to? Are they specific to Namur or are they observed in a wider perimeter? If so, what is it? What is the average age of computers used by FPS Finance officers? How fast is the FPS Finance computer network in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders? What are the many system failures? Do you intend to take initiatives to address these issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u41	Agents of the Namur FPS did indeed notice a slowdown in the network. Other sites were also affected, due to a general slowdown in the renewal of the network infrastructure. The problem was the capacity of bandwidth. More technically, the average bandwidth used by everyone was 45 MB per second and 30 MB per second between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. The available bandwidth was 50 MB per second up and down. Various reasons explain the network problems in the administrative city of Namur: a more intensive use of bandwidth, due to the use of more interactive applications, the widespread use of the cloud and the increase in Internet traffic. The amount of data and the types of application have indeed changed over the last 10 years. In 2015, SPF Finance entered into a contract with Belnet to support and update Internet connections in the various offices. FPS Finance notes that substantial delays have occurred. Initially, the FPS Finances limited the bandwidth of certain types of internet traffic such as video or social networks. In addition, my administration urges Belnet to accelerate the migration to new network connections. The FPS Finance also asked the current operator, Proximus, to increase bandwidth in the very short term where possible. Finally, in the first quarter of 2017, the ICT service will install a local server in the satellite offices of the 50 most important sites, thereby reducing traffic on the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u42	Minister, thank you for these answers. You don't answer all my questions. I would have liked to have information beyond Namur's problems. You tell us that other sites are affected but we don't know which ones very well. One wonders whether the situation in Namibia is quite special or whether these problems are also encountered elsewhere. Indeed, it is quite disconcerting to see or, in any case, subodorer that the computer situation of the FPS Finances where, as I said, so many jobs have been removed in the name of computerisation is, we will not say medieval, it is perhaps too stigmatizing, but is not what we should be able to expect from a modern computer which, precisely, must be able to juggle on a series of applications. There is also no standardization of computer applications. It is quite damaging to see – this is not the first time – that once again, computerization is not what it should be at the Finance FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u43	Mr President, Minister, the minimum corporate tax, commonly referred to as fairness tax, was introduced under the previous government on behalf of tax justice. Indeed, it is difficult to understand why large groups pay their shareholders and pay almost no cents to taxes. Some see it as tax optimisation, we see it as tax injustice! This fairness tax is specifically targeted at large groups that pay little tax through the Belgian tax system, whether it is a deduction from past losses or notional interest, but which, on the other hand, distribute dividends. As a reminder, this minimum tax was challenged before the Constitutional Court, which had referred a question to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling. The Advocate General has delivered his opinion recently and against all the expectations of the multinationals, the Court of Justice validates the fairness tax and does not accept any arguments under European law which his detractors put forward: there is no obstacle to freedom of establishment, nor any difficulty in relation to withholding at source. The Advocate General's only remark concerns a specific situation, namely when a Belgian company receives dividends from a foreign company and then redistributes them to a parent company abroad. We are therefore far from your statements, Mr. Minister of Finance, when you were talking at the time about "a dead body fallen from the closet". In fact, the Advocate General considers that fairness tax does not run counter to European law. As a result, few multinationals will find themselves in the case raised by the Court of Justice. Minister, as soon as the Court's opinion is final, do you intend to respond to the specific situation raised by the Advocate General through a legislative amendment? So do you intend to consolidate the fairness tax system? If so, how long do you allow for the corrective action to come into force? It will be recalled that the stake is potentially in hundreds of millions of euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u44	Mr Laaouej, first of all, I would like to point out that the Opinion of the Advocate General to the Court of Justice of the European Union is not binding on the Court of Justice of the European Union and that it is necessary to await the judgment it will issue before assessing its scope. Without presuming that judgment, which should in principle be delivered in the first half of this year, it must be made clear that the Opinion of the Advocate General of 17 November, which is published on the Court of Justice's website, relates to the three questions referred for a preliminary ruling by the Constitutional Court of Belgium in the context of the action for annulment of the fairness tax system. The Advocate General replied in the negative to the first two questions on whether fairness tax is compatible with freedom of establishment and whether it does not constitute withholding tax within the meaning of Article 5 of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. As regards the third question referred for a preliminary ruling, the Advocate General, on the other hand, concludes that Article 4(3) of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive precludes a national system which entails a tax burden which exceeds the threshold laid down in that Article where the company concerned makes, within the scope of that Directive, a distribution of dividends which it has itself collected and which it redistributes. This is limited to the case of dividend redistributions of permanently taxed income (GDRs), i.e., the portion of the taxable basis of fairness tax that exceeds the prescribed threshold and is derived from dividends that the taxable corporation itself has collected and redistributes. In my view, however, it is premature to rule on the scope of the judgment expected in 2017, both in terms of budgetary impact and in possible corrective measures to be adopted. As regards budgetary impact and corrective measures, these depend on the judgments of the Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court. In its conclusions, the Belgian State argues and maintains that fairness tax is essentially in conformity with European Union law. It should be pointed out that the appeal to the Constitutional Court also concerns complaints other than compliance with European Union law, for example respect for the constitutional principle of equality. My administration is responsible for reviewing corrective measures to address the problem raised. At this stage, however, it is premature to propose legislative adaptation without knowing the content of future judgments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u45	Minister, I understand your approach to the matter. It is quite consistent. The goal was to probe your intentions against the fairness tax. Indeed, you spoke of a dead body falling from the closet, which might have led to the impression that you were going to challenge this fairness tax, regardless of the options taken by the Constitutional Court or the Court of Justice. We look forward to hearing that you will wait for the decisions and opinions of the Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court before taking an attitude. At this stage, therefore, there is no challenge to the fairness tax. Of course, we will judge on pieces.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u46	Minister, in accordance with the terms of the government agreement, the federal government has committed itself to making operational, in close cooperation with the regional authorities, the so-called "Specific assistance to free zones" recovery measure. On the basis of the law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Competitiveness Pact, the government can now support, for a limited period of time and subject to a number of conditions, employers who wish to invest in a territorial area which is subject to severe socio-economic difficulties. This support, as you know, is based on a partial exemption from the payment of the professional discount. At present, the Flemish and Walloon governments have signed cooperation agreements with the federal government to support the revival of a number of defined aid areas, including Genk, Charleroi, Turnhout and Sambreville. However, this is still not the case in the Brussels Region. I regret this situation, even though the Brussels regional executive is facing unemployment which affects more than 90,000 people, a record poverty rate which affects one in three people and an exodus of businesses which has continued over the last ten years. Asked about the lack of synergy with the federal government, Brussels' Minister of the Economy said last October, in a question-and-answer session in the Brussels Parliament: "By Region, all aid areas cannot exceed 200,000 inhabitants. The aim of the restriction on the maximum number of inhabitants is to encourage the regions to reserve aid areas for industrial land and conversion areas, making it difficult to set up these areas in a highly urbanised territory. This obviously puts the Brussels-Capital Region at a disadvantage compared to the other two Regions." He also added, I quote again, that "the cooperation agreement imposes particularly heavy obligations on the Region. While the Federal State represents the competent authority for the harvest of the professional discount and will be responsible for granting the aid, it is up to the Region itself to calculate, on the basis of the evidence provided by the Federal Government, the financial equivalent of the discount exemption. In addition, if the European ceilings are exceeded, the regional aid which is considered to be subject to federal aid will have to be adapted and be the subject of an application for reimbursement. Within the framework of regional aid for existing investments, most Brussels-based companies are already easily reaching the maximum rates permitted by European legislation. Taking into account the above, the added value of the implementation of this instrument would therefore be very limited." At the outset, I must admit that I was very surprised, if not disappointed, by these remarks because of the weakness of the arguments put forward, which contrasts with the enthusiasm which has animated the Walloon and Flemish approaches. I regret that the Brussels Region did not seize this opportunity to significantly improve its socio-economic situation. Mr Minister, has the Brussels Minister of Economy contacted you to explain what he considers to be a source of difficulty and to work together, if necessary, on constructive solutions? Has the Urban Stimulated Economy Zone (ZEUS) project, the Brussels Free Zone created by an ordinance of 2014, been presented to you in order to find synergies with this federal scheme? Finally, with regard to the cooperation agreements signed with the Flemish and Walloon regional authorities, what exactly is the status of the implementation of these partnerships? What is the status of these sites according to the information available to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u47	As far as I know, no member of the government of the Brussels-Capital Region has so far contacted me, my firm or my administration, with a view to concluding a cooperation agreement that will allow the establishment of an aid area in the Brussels-Capital Region. In addition, the project for a Stimulated Urban Economy Zone (ZEUS), the Brussels Free Zone, was not presented to me, to my firm or to my administration. The cooperation agreement between the Federal State and the Flemish Region on the implementation of Article 16 of the Act of 15 May 2014 implementing the Competitiveness, Employment and Recovery Pact was concluded on 3 April 2015. As a result of this cooperation agreement, two aid zones have already been demarcated in the Region on 28 April 2015. As regards the Walloon Region, the cooperation agreement between the Federal State and the Walloon Region on the implementation of Article 16 of the Law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Competitiveness, Employment and Recovery Pact was concluded on 17 November 2015. In pursuance of this cooperation agreement, the Region is preparing the delimitation of four aid zones. As soon as the Walloon Region has completed its process, we will proceed as quickly as possible to the effective delimitation of these aid areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u49	Mrs van Cauter cannot come to this sitting; her questions Nos 15220 and 15687 are postponed. Questions Nos 15632, 15634, 15680 and 15681 by Mr Gilkinet are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u50	Mr President, Minister, at present, the fees of lawyers who provide second-line services in the context of pro deo legal aid and those of judicial officers who also perform pro deo services are subject to VAT but at zero rate. I had asked you about the difference in treatment between lawyers and judicial officers. However, on the basis of a ministerial circular of 23 December 2016, the tax administration decided that these benefits would be subject, as from 1 April 2017, to a VAT of 21 %. In addition, the user tickets of 20 euros paid upon the appointment of a pro deo lawyer, and 30 euros paid at each new stage of the judicial proceedings, would also be subject, over time, to 21 % VAT. This reform raises the concerns of justice professionals, many of whom are asking who will have to pay for this increase: the state, to whom lawyers will charge it and who will therefore register a white operation; lawyers, who could surrender part of what they have received; or, simply, the clients. This issue was raised in the Justice Committee on 11 January 2017 by my colleague Laaouej. The Minister of Justice has indicated that the Crown will pay VAT to itself and that Justice will pay it to lawyers who will have to pay it back to the Treasury. Minister, this is an important issue. The pro deo mechanism is central to access to justice for all but also for lawyers, often young, who exercise it. I would also like to ask you the following questions. Can you explain to us the contours of the device which will apply from April 1st, for both lawyers and bailiffs? What will be the mechanism for the payment of this VAT which has been mentioned by the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I have indeed questioned Mr Geens, your colleague from Justice, who seemed to discover the problem. He said he learned it a little fortuitously. So I thought maybe there was a communication problem, which he did not deny, between you and him. Nevertheless, we have learned of the existence of this circular, which imposes a VAT rate of 21% on the services of pro deo lawyers, as well as on the new moderator ticket set up by your government. In our view, this measure constitutes a new tax on poverty when we know who is using the pro deo system and when we know the difficulties that many citizens face in accessing justice. It adds to the many measures that make justice ever more inaccessible to the most vulnerable citizens. By increasing the cost of access to justice, your government does not reduce the number of conflicts, it only increases those that will be settled by the law of the strongest and arbitrary, which is regrettable This circular would follow the judgment of the Court of the European Union of 28 July. This would be a partial interpretation of the judgment because it is based on the presumption that those who do not have sufficient resources are entitled to sufficiently strong legal aid, which guarantees them effective access to justice. But no one can ignore that calling for justice today has become, except a luxury, a difficult thing, even for a large part of the middle class. The government therefore has no choice but to compensate its own tax by increasing the budget envelope. Indeed, as the Minister of Justice said, money comes out of one fund to enter the other because it is a closed budget envelope. What are you going to do to ensure that there is no covering of the pro deo envelope, especially since nothing has been provided for in the budget at this stage? The Minister of Justice referred to the Legal Aid Fund, which is quite questionable, as well as a series of avenues that also require political decisions that are still absent. Reference was also made to the application of VAT to the moderator ticket. This seems to us even more critical because it is already in itself a tax for the most disadvantaged and corresponds to an additional effort on an effort already required of a large part of our litigants! Moreover, the European judgment does not require or concern this user ticket, which did not exist on the day of publication of the judgment. After your extensive interpretation of the judgment of the Court of Justice, you continue by putting the moderator's ticket on the tax base for litigants. Minister, what are you going to do to increase the budget for legal aid and pro deo by the 21% you are going to levy through VAT? What will be the budgetary impact of this measure? Basically, what do you expect as a budgetary return on VAT? This way, we will know what to add to justice, if this is the government's option. What will be the impact of this new law on access to justice for the most disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u52	Mr Calomne and Mr Laaouej, I apologize first because part of my answer was written in Dutch. The VAT exemptions for services provided by lawyers and judicial officers were repealed on 1 January 2014 and 1 January 2012 respectively. Following multiple actions for annulment, the Constitutional Court referred a question to the Court for a preliminary ruling, which was answered by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 28 July 2016. This decision is legally binding on the Constitutional Court and implies that the provision of pro deo services by lawyers and judicial officers is subject to the normal VAT rate of 21%. My administration has indicated that this rate will apply from 1 April 2017 and that accordingly, the decision of 19 January 2016 concerning pro deo services provided by bailiffs should also be repealed. In its judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that the application of VAT on the provision of services by lawyers is not incompatible with the fundamental rights of litigants, such as the right to legal assistance, the right to effective legal protection, the right to a fair trial and the principle of equality of arms. Furthermore, the Court of Justice of the European Union has confirmed that the services provided by lawyers to litigants receiving legal aid under a national legal aid scheme cannot be exempt from VAT or subject to a reduced VAT rate under the basic provisions of the VAT Directive. The adjustment of the VAT rate is therefore necessary in order to bring the Belgian scheme into line with European VAT legislation. In accordance with the VAT Code, lawyers and bailiffs performing pro-deprived services are liable for VAT for these transactions. This VAT will become payable at the moment, laid down by the ordinary rules of the same code. Lawyers and bailiffs will have to settle the amount through their VAT return. Before drawing conclusions on the overall problem of the pro-Deo services provided by lawyers in the context of second-line legal assistance, the judgment on the substance of the Constitutional Court should be awaited. As you may understand, it is impossible to deal with all aspects of the operation of the VAT system in the context of an answer to an oral question. In any event, VAT will have to be levied on the lump sums and the amounts of the partial free-of-charge that the applicants themselves will have to pay. The current legally determined amounts are currently including VAT. The additional practical arrangements for the application of the measure will also be discussed with the various orders of lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u53	Minister, I have taken note of your various points of answer, but I did find it important to ask you the question today and, above all, to convey the concerns and concerns of both lawyers and bailiffs. It seems, however, that there is confusion, even among legal professionals, with regard to the readability of the mechanism. I understand that for some application procedures, you will still have contacts with professional orders. This will really have to be clarified at best, it is important. I have told you, and I repeat to you, a number of concerns are hovering at home. We will, of course, keep an eye on the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u54	Minister, I am not reassured at all. I would have liked to hear the Minister of Finance tell us that he was prepared to refer to the Justice budget what the increase or, more precisely, the 21 % increase on the pro deo is going to bring to his attention. In other words, since 21% will be applied to the pro deo as part of a closed envelope, this means that on the justice side, 21% will be lost. Finance and tax revenues earn 21%. The least that would be possible would be to have an agreement within the government so that the gain from the increase in VAT or, more precisely, the setting of VAT at 21% on the pro deo could be returned to justice. I think that's what the Minister of Justice is waiting for. He told us he was gonna get in touch with you. Apparently, this has not yet been done. Otherwise, you might have had a different answer. I do not know when it is expected that you will speak within the government, but, if I understand correctly, it will come into effect on April 1. It's in three months. It's tomorrow. I believe that this problem may need to be addressed in the context of budgetary adjustment, but we need to realize what that means. It is a fifth of the budget allocated to the pro deo which is going to melt there. It's still considerable. Then, with regard to the moderator ticket, we place the Minister of Justice, who already shouts famine, in an even more uncomfortable position. Finally, he will have to explain to the court that access to justice will be even more difficult. The moderator ticket is already an effort that people are asked to make, but in addition, we will add VAT to them. Indeed, we can see the whole genesis of VAT on fees but, at the same time, concretely, for people, it is a tax on additional consumption, in this case - I do not like the expression very much - consumption, I would say, of access to justice. So we are likely to have to find solutions in a budget context, I repeat, which is particularly difficult. Your answers do not reassure me at all. I therefore call for a discussion between you and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u55	Question No 15754 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez was postponed until the next meeting. Questions Nos 15755, 15756 and 15778 by Mrs Smaers are converted into written questions. Since we have no news of Mr Benoît Friart, his question No 15795 is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u56	Mr President, Minister, first of all I wish you all the best. I would like to ask you, Minister, about the reduction in tax controls for 2016. You have certainly heard that the unions, which you meet regularly, have, in this regard, fired the alarm bell. Comparing the 2010 income controls, it is a loss of almost two billion euros. The question is why we have come to this situation. This decrease is due to a number of factors, including the downsizing of the FPS Finances: the department has been planed by 8,000 units in ten years. What worries me more is that a further reduction would be expected in 2017. Another reason, according to the unions, may also be the obligation of the controllers to be flexible. In the past, tax officers were specialized in matters such as corporate tax, personal tax, VAT and registration fees. Today, they are subject to an important obligation of versatility, especially with regard to corporate or personal tax and VAT, which results in a certain loss of technicality. The unions confirm this loss of technical skills because the agents have to undergo other training which is not as extensive as before. They are also subject to a performance obligation. As a result, their work has become administrative and minimal. Minister, what are you planning to do to make 2017 better in terms of fighting tax fraud, but also to maintain effective tax controls while a further reduction in staff is planned for this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u57	Mr Crusnière, in line with the vision set out in my anti-fraud plan, the ISI will continue to take a multitude of initiatives in 2017 as part of its core business, namely the fight against organised or unorganized large tax fraud. We hope that the figures for 2016 will be in line with those for the first four months, namely 228 million euros. The challenge is both preventive and repressive. Without being comprehensive, since the approach to fraud is still evolving in nature, this year the ISI will attach the utmost importance to: developing thematic and sectoral actions; increasing the rate of recovery of its own recruitments; participating in the implementation of the recommendations of the various parliamentary commissions of inquiry; continuing the deployment of new IT tools (data warehousing, e-audit, etc.) and new research techniques through proactive risk analysis; combating fraud typologies developed by both traditional and electronic channels; strengthening existing networks and optimizing its collaboration with the various actors involved in the fight against fraud, both at national and international level, and a genuine interaction with the Department of Justice. In 2016, I finalized the implementation of the target group oriented organization of the General Tax Administration (AGFisc). Within the framework of the new target group-oriented organization, a process of progressive development of the skills of collaborators in a multidisciplinary context has begun. The introduction of a multidisciplinary operation at the level of AGFisc enables us to respond to the main challenge facing my administration: to ensure qualitatively different key missions in a context of fewer staff. The multi-faceted approach to the taxpayer's file provides an opportunity for my administration to work more effectively, with tasks streamlined and some duplicates removed. The taxpayer is provided with an integrated service. So there's only one point of contact when it comes to my administration. In addition, the multidisciplinary approach promotes better organization within teams and increased collaboration. Employees also have new opportunities to develop their technical skills and progress within the organization. Indeed, it is important to mention that specialization in a specific tax matter remains possible in the head of staff beyond the common base of general knowledge in the various subjects. Advanced knowledge in a specific tax area will continue to be developed within the administration. A comprehensive development plan is prepared every two years for the Finance FPS. This comprehensive development plan is created in collaboration with the centre directors. They send us the training needs of their employees so that we can establish a satisfactory training offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u58	Minister, thank you for your precise answer. I think you have the chance to have high-quality and motivated staff in the FPS Finances. It is not Marco Van Hees who will contradict me in this matter! I invite you to really stay tuned to them because they are actually asking to be able to work in good conditions. I therefore invite you to make every effort to provide them with a quality working framework to enable them to carry out their checks in the best possible way. I think profitability will naturally follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u59	Question No 15875 by Mr Delannois is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u60	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the recent condemnation of Belgium by the European Commission of Belgian tax gifts that our country would have granted to 35 multinationals. In particular, it is the excess profit rules which are pointed out by the Commission because they distort competition based on merit, since small structures are not entitled to them. Since that condemnation, the debate has been raging between those who believe that the system used over the last ten years is in no way illegal and is in line with European laws and those who believe that the Commission is right and that this condemnation must be the opportune time to discuss Belgium's tax policy in favour of companies more broadly. Minister, can you first give me the last information you have in your possession on this file? Have you had any contact with the Commissioner responsible for this matter since the European Union announced that Belgium must recover the 700 million unduly given to the 35 multinationals? If so, what was the content of your exchange? Have negotiations for a possible refund already started? If so, can you tell me what stage we're at? If not, can you tell me when the negotiations will begin?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u61	Mr Crusnière, first of all, I would like to remind you that the Chamber, in the framework of the programme law of 25 December 2016, adopted the provisions referred to in Chapter 5 of Title 4 concerning the State aid recovery scheme relating to the taxation of surplus profits referred to in Article 184 of the Income Tax Code. By its decision of 11 January 2016 on the State aid scheme for the exemption of excess profits implemented by Belgium, the European Commission ordered the Belgian State to take all appropriate measures to recover the amount of the aid concerned from the beneficiaries thereof. That chapter shall regulate the arrangements for recovering such aid. Throughout the preparation of the draft, these provisions were subject to almost continuous consultation with the services of the European Commission. The Government has also undertaken to inform the European Commission of the adaptation of these provisions and to keep its services informed of the progress of the recovery procedure on the basis of the latter. This recovery procedure under the law is in the process of being finalized. It is, of course, too early to be able to say more at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u62	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u63	Minister, I would like to ask you about an answer you gave to a written question about the proportion of French-language tax returns sent for 2015. In your response, you stated that the share of Francophone tax returns increases from year to year, including in the municipalities with facilities. On the basis of this answer, I would like to ask you a few additional questions: Can you tell me how many French- and Dutch-speaking agents work in the PPI services in Brussels? How many of them are bilingual? Can you give me the numbers by level and linguistic role? How many Francophone and Dutch-speaking heads of service are there in Brussels? How many of them are bilingual? Furthermore, is it possible to know the answer to these same questions for ISOC?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u64	Of course, my answer will contain many figures! In the services of the PPI in Brussels, there are 202 persons of the Francophone linguistic role and 80 persons of the Dutch-speaking linguistic role. Of these, 42 French-speaking officers and 56 Dutch-speaking officers are bilingual. If we divide by level, we obtain the following figures: 23 of the 70 Francophone officers at level A, 8 of the 25 Francophone officers at level B, 11 of the 78 Francophone officers at level C are bilingual; none of the 29 officers at level D is bilingual. For Dutch speakers, 24 of the 29 level A officers, 16 of the 19 level B officers, 14 of the 19 level C officers and 2 of the 13 level D officers are bilingual. For PPI heads in Brussels, 6 out of 10 Francophones and the 10 Dutch speakers are bilingual. I am arriving at ISOC services in Brussels. There are 495 Francophone language officers and 314 Dutch-speaking language officers. Of these, 161 Francophone and 231 Dutch-speaking officers are bilingual. By level, 92 of the 211 Francophone agents at level A, 47 of the 183 Francophone agents at level B, 21 of the 67 Francophone agents at level C and 1 of the 34 Francophone agents at level D are bilingual. For Dutch speakers, 126 of 148 level A officers, 83 of 105 level B officers, 21 of 34 level C officers and 2 of 27 level D officers are bilingual. For ISOC heads of service in Brussels, 6 of the 13 Francophone heads of service are bilingual, 48 of the 50 Dutch-speaking heads of service are bilingual.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u65	It's perfect, but I assume I can get this information in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u66	Questions Nos. 15919, 15920, 15921 and 15925 by Mr. Gilkinet are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u67	Minister, the role of Regional Director has always been a key function of the FPS Finance. However, in the context of the Coperfin reform and the changeover, as it is known internally, this function, which was at level A3, was replaced by that of General Counsel at level A4, which is higher, with the result that all the regional directors appointed were asked to apply and pass an examination if they wished to become advisers. A large part of the 25 regional directors appointed, because there are also all those who are ad interim, would have, I believe, quite logically refused to apply for this new rank, since they have been performing their duties perfectly for years. According to the daily Le Soir, 22 regional directors expressed this refusal, while the other three (a total of 25) would have missed the exam to become general councillor. CGSP trade union leader Roland Vansaingele told the same newspaper that the reform also had a negative impact on the independence of these civil servants: "The position has been precarised by putting the leaders under a mandate. The necessary independence is no longer preserved. The senior managers of the administration must therefore now blow on the same side as their hierarchy and that their supervising minister if they wish their term of office to be renewed." Do you confirm these facts? Are there any differences between the missions of the former Regional Directors and those of the General Advisors who would replace them today? If so, which ones? Can the administration remove the regional directors from their positions? If so, on what legal basis? Do you confirm that the independence of the new Councillors General will be less than that of the former Directors General appointed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u68	Mr Van Hees, you will understand that it is not for me to comment on the administrative situation of agents in my department. On the other hand, to claim that, in the context of the reform of the various tax administrations, the function of regional director has been precarised, does not correspond to reality at all. This is evidenced by the very precise terms of the report to the King of Royal Decree of 19 July 2013 on the appointment in the common careers of holders of a particular title at level A and the assignment to staff members at level A of a function included in the annex to the Royal Decree of 20 December 2007 on the classification of functions at level A. "The Regional Directors, the Chairs of Acquisition Committees and the Directors, all of whom remain remunerated in the A33 salary scale upon their integration into the common career, shall retain the complement, in their personal capacity, for the duration of their appointment to the A3 class. Staff at the A3 level are not appointed to the A4 level of office, as the final functions related to the A4 and A5 levels are of crucial importance to the organization and it is therefore preferable to award them as part of a competitive process. This makes it possible, after checking the candidates' skills, to ensure that the principle of the right person in the right place can be respected. The assignment of certain definitive functions in classes A4 and A5 for which it will be desirable to open them also to candidates for promotion will be carried out through competition and on the basis of a standardised selection procedure. This procedure will be carried out on the basis of job descriptions and competency profiles." Thus, they are not leaders under mandate but general advisers at the A4 level. Many jobs of General Advisors and Regional Directors were put into competition, for which anyone who considered that they met the conditions of appointment was free to participate or not. As I indicated, it is not for me to comment further on the administrative situation of my department's staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic570x.u69	Minister, I would have liked to have an answer to my question as to whether the administration can remove these regional directors from their positions. Some say: "No, we stay in place, we stay in place and we don't move. We can't be fired." I was wondering if there was a legal basis for their position or, conversely, for the SPF's to move them. For the rest, you tell us that there is no precarization of regional directors and that there is no leader under mandate. I still ask myself the question: sometimes there are regional directors a little... I don't know how to judge them, I would say a little thundering and who are noticed. There may be others who are a little less noticed in the media but also have their independence from work. I think that's a good thing. Even your party sometimes shouts haro about the politicization of the administration! For example, some regional directors have been able to escape politicization and enjoy some independence. If these regional directors are required to pass a hierarchy-based examination to perform functions that they performed without problems previously, there is a risk that a filter will be in place. There is a question about this and the merits of this amendment. Why can these people no longer take on the duties that they had previously performed very well? The question remains.
