ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u1	Mr President, Minister, during the summer months we were able to hear the Summer Agreement of this government. One of the important decisions made in this regard was the tax on securities accounts. This measure was particularly important for one of the coalition partners, as well as for you, Madam Minister, because the government estimates the revenue from these securities tax for 2018 at 254 million euros. There has been a great deal to be done in recent weeks. Several ministers have made statements on this matter. In particular, the statement by Minister Van Overtveldt, the Minister for Finance, who still has the pen of the tax on securities accounts and who estimates how much this measure will yield, is encouraging. He is now saying that this measure will not pass the test of the Constitutional Court, criticism previously given by the opposition and by experts. It is bizarre that he does not say that during the government consultation, because that is when these matters need to be looked at and discussed. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following question for you. In view of the statements made by Minister Van Overtveldt, do you hold on to the proposed return of EUR 254 million for the 2018 budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u2	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, thank you for your question. Last July, the government reached agreement on the 2018 budget and on a number of new structural measures, including taxation, competitiveness and social cohesion. This agreement is the final result of an extensive group work in which each minister, as always, is responsible for the implementation of the decisions taken vis-à-vis his department, the achievement of the objectives set and the expected returns. The latter were not revised. For your information, the working groups are currently finalizing the parameters and, above all, translating the decisions taken in legislative texts. These texts will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers and sent to the Council of State. We will certainly have many opportunities to debate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u3	Madam Minister, you are right to say that every minister is responsible for the measures he has to take and for the proceeds, and you say that this has not been revised in the meantime. In other words, the proceeds of 254 million will remain in your budget. In the meantime, we know your colleague, Mr Van Overtveldt, who has repeatedly failed to reach your budget with regard to estimates. An ass doesn't stumble twice on the same stone.It's a proverb in Dutch. I do not want to compare you with a donkey, Madam Secretary, but the risk that you will come back to the Van Overtveldt stone is very great. After all, the Minister himself has already indicated that there is very little chance of reaching almost a quarter of a billion. In other words, next year you will have a problem. I therefore recommend that you revise this at the next government meeting, especially if you have the ambition to draw up a budget that is at least a little bit in line with reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament At the request of Mrs Smaers, 18593 will be converted into a written question. The same applies to Question No 1, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the We have not heard from Mr Gilkinet and Mr Calvo. In the absence of any questioners, I propose that this committee meeting be suspended. Anyone who submits a question but cannot be present in time to ask them must inform us or ask us to ask them later. I will suspend the sitting for 10 minutes, because I do not wish to delay the Minister any longer. If the authors are not present, their questions shall be deleted. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale No 18593 by Mrs Smaers and No 18593 by Mrs Smaers and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Mrs Fonck's 18611 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, in 2014, the Federal Police left its buildings in Ixelles and moved to the State Administrative City for an annual rent of €13.2 million. Very quickly, suspicions of fraud and corruption have emerged with regard to this operation, which have rebounded recently with the arrest of some suspects. On May 24, 2017, I asked your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments about this file. Mr. Jambon said that an audit on this matter was currently being conducted by the Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate under your responsibility. Minister, when was the above-mentioned audit requested from the Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate? Is the audit report already available? If so, what are the conclusions? What follow-up will be given? If it is not yet available, within what time frame is it expected? Have you taken an initiative to speed up the processing of this potentially important case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u6	Mr President, dear colleague, the Council of Ministers of 22 November 2013 instructed the body of the Finance Inspectorate to carry out an audit of the proposed consolidation of certain federal police services in the city centre of Brussels. On March 7, I sent a letter to the Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate, in which I asked to ensure that the final version of the report was available during the third quarter. My firm has recently had contact with the Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate to inquire about the progress of this famous report. Based on the information received, it appears that the findings are finalized and that the first recommendations have been drafted. The adversarial phase has therefore begun. In the course of the review, the parties concerned have the opportunity to react to the draft report, to express their views on the findings and to report on any improvements that may have already been made to the process concerned. In accordance with established practice and standards, the draft report submitted to the adversarial procedure is confidential in order to preserve the right of reply accorded to the services concerned. I have asked my office to urge the Finance Inspectorate to submit the final report to us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and for following up on this issue. You indicate that the draft report is confidential. Will the report in question also be made public or will it be made public? This is a question that I will probably have to rest with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u8	Indeed, because, quite honestly, I have never had to deal with this type of report. So I can't answer you without being sure I won't mislead you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u9	We must always be careful. I will therefore allow myself to question you again. As far as the deadline is concerned, you mentioned the third quarter. You also told me that you had asked the Finance Inspectorate not to delay in this case. In a month's time, I will ask you a new question that will focus more on content than on procedure, hoping that you can give me information and that this report can be made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u10	Mr Gilkinet, we come to your question No 20728. The minister has already responded to Mr. Vanvelthoven, but you can base the question on the return of the tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u11	If the question has been asked, I will not rest it. On the other hand, I will ask the minister for a copy of her answer. I had to arrive on time. Mr Vanvelthoven asked the question before I arrived. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u12	Yes. He asked the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u13	I was absent and I'm the only one responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u14	Madam Secretary, could you possibly repeat it in telegram style?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u15	Mr. President, we're breaking with usage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u16	Exceptionally, because we are in a spirit of cooperation before the budget debates!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u17	That's great! Hope it lasts!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u18	As I said to your colleague, Mr Vanvelthoven, last July, the government agreed on the 2018 budget as well as on a series of new structural reforms in the areas of taxation, competitiveness and social cohesion in particular. This agreement is the result of an important team work where, as always, each minister has the responsibility to ensure the implementation of decisions taken in his department, the achievement of objectives and expected returns, and these have not been changed. Working groups are currently in the process of finalizing the latest parameters and, above all, transposing the decisions that have been taken into legislation. As you know, these texts will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers and then to the Council of State. As I pointed out to Mr Vanvelthoven, they will then move on to the ad hoc committees and I know that we will not fail to discuss them more directly. You also asked in your question, which I had received, a comment on the statements of my colleague in charge of Finance. You will understand that I will confine myself to recalling the wise words of our Prime Minister who said that "the agreement reached this summer had to be respected".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u19	Mr. Chairman, since the minister has done me the honour and the pleasure of responding, I will allow myself to reply. Minister, I understand that every functional minister is responsible for his or her revenues and expenses. However, you have an obligation as Minister of Budget to ensure that the budget path and commitments are respected. I am concerned, as you must be, about the Minister of Finance's lack of enthusiasm to implement this tax on securities accounts. There is no doubt that the technical agreement within the government is lame, particularly as regards the absence of any increase in the tax and this threshold effect. We really have the impression that there is bad will in the head of the Minister of Finance and a complete lack of desire to implement the commitments he has accepted, in the context of the budgetary conclave. If each minister does so, there will be no budget. We will remember a brilliant and flamboyant communication from the government at the end of July, but our fellow citizens will find themselves facing a complex fiscal situation, and especially the consequences of it, such as new taxes and somewhat wild economies, to which the government has accustomed us. I ask you to do more than take note of the good or bad will of each other. However, I am aware that your role is not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u20	That concludes the questions for Mrs Wilmès. Madam Secretary, thank you for coming. We will certainly see you in great detail as soon as the budget is presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u21	Mr Minister, in the search for additional or alternative funding, the word 'crowdfunding' is increasingly emerging today. I remember that in the Flemish Parliament we have broken a lance to introduce this. We also note that more than ever non-profit organisations are dependent on donations to keep their functioning financially viable. Fundraising campaigns are launched with the regularity of a clock and a successful campaign also requires a professional approach, time and resources. Support through a crowdfunding platform can provide an important added value for this. Personally, I am very happy to see that the concept and approach are gaining more and more ground in the meantime. Such a platform can also provide guidance in terms of marketing, communication, financial transactions, etc. A not insignificant element in fundraising is, of course, the fact that those who make the donations also receive a tax advantage. Organisations may receive recognition, provided they meet a number of criteria, to issue tax certificates to donors of donations from EUR 40. However, there is a gap: donations received via a crowdfunding platform are apparently not eligible for a tax certificate today. The FPS Finance uses a fairly literal interpretation of the regulation. Gifts through a crowdfunding platform are interpreted as collectively and indirectly collected gifts, which are therefore not eligible for a tax certificate. This is evident from the comments on Article 104 of the Code on income taxes. I'll spare you the quote. In the past, however, an opening was already made for online payments or internet donations. By means of a circular sent out in 2014, the FPS Finance indicated that such donations could qualify for a tax certificate, which must of course meet all the conditions. The argument was that it was necessary to adapt to new technological developments. However, recruiting donations via crowdfunding platforms is also a growing practice that is described today as an alternative form of financing and, as far as I am concerned, also a positive form of financing. This has also been well understood in the non-profit sector. In fact, legislation has recently been drawn up. Since February 2017, that is also your credit, a tax certificate can be issued for investments and loans via crowdfunding platforms if the recognised crowdfunding platforms are used. These tax advantages in crowd loans and crowdinvestment or crowddequity are only useful for companies. In the cultural sector, besides the tax shelter for audiovisual productions, there has recently been a tax shelter for performing arts. This is also accessible to non-profit organisations, subject to corporation tax, and only after recognition of the stage work by the Flemish Government. Minister, do you recognize the problem? Is there anything we can do about it? Can you tell me if crowdfunding platforms can still be covered by the application? Do you see possibilities to develop a framework to meet this problem, for example through an additional circular letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u22	Gifts received by a recognised institution through a crowdfunding platform fit into the legal provisions of the tax relief for cash donations when a number of conditions for online donations are met. There are four conditions. Firstly, the identification of the donor must be clear, must be possible. Secondly, the gift must be sent to an account in the name of the approved body and of which it is sole owner. Thirdly, the approved institution must include the gift in its accounts. Fourthly, the donation must be final and irrevocable and must be at least EUR 40. So these are fairly neutral conditions. I confirm that, as soon as those conditions are met, tax deductions and related persons are also met.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u23	Mr President, Minister, a great misunderstanding has been resolved. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u24	Mr President, Minister, in mid-July, it was reported that the US Federal Reserve imposed a fine on BNP Paribas, which it accused of having engaged in "unsure practices" in the foreign exchange market. This penalty of $246 million is affected by the parent company and several of its subsidiaries in the United States. They reportedly lacked "supervisory and internal controls over foreign exchange operators who buy and sell dollars and other currencies for the bank's or its customers' accounts". If it is confirmed, the amount of this fine is enormous and will inevitably impact the outcome of the institution whose federal state remains a significant shareholder. He is the first shareholder via the Federal Société de Participations et d'Investissement (SFPI). Minister, what information do you have about the reasons for the sanction imposed by the EDF on BNP Paribas? As a shareholder, what steps have you taken towards BNP Paribas as a result of this information? Do you have an assessment of the impact of the sanction on BNP Paribas' financial performance, on its services and on the remuneration of its shareholders? Have any directives been communicated by the SFPI to the Government on-line or to the directors representing the Belgian State in relation to this file? What is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u25	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, your question is part of several investigations conducted by the authorities of different jurisdictions against many financial institutions concerning suspicions of collusion in the manipulation of certain benchmarks in the currency market. Since the transactional settlement announced on 17 July 2017 has been the subject of a detailed press release issued on 11 August 2017, I will confine myself to recalling the following. The facts in question relate to past practices that occurred between 2007 and 2013. Since the transaction concluded for an amount of EUR 215 million, as well as the transactions in May have been fully provided for, they will not affect the dividend for the financial year. These transactions involve both a lack of supervision and different types of misconduct by a limited number of business associates. The members of the bodies of the group, both the Management Board and the various committees concerned, have been regularly and duly informed of this dossier. Since the events in question, BNP Paribas has proactively implemented extensive measures to strengthen its control and compliance systems. The resources dedicated to these functions have been greatly increased and the group has focused on the "matter" aspects in the formation of its teams, and has put in place a new code of conduct, applicable to all employees. As a shareholder, the Belgian State, represented by the government, is therefore satisfied with the way in which the group has managed its past problems and hopes that the measures set out, so that such problems no longer arise, will be effective. For more information, I invite you to read the biannual financial report published by BNP Paribas last July 31.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u26	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I also hope that the situation will change at BNP Paribas. We are the first shareholder of this institution, which has unfortunately been anything but exemplary in this case, but also in other situations. This is not the only difficulty we had with this bank. I will continue to question you and I hope that you will continue to instruct the two directors representing the Belgian State in this bank to be particularly vigilant and ruthless with regard to this type of practice and malfeasance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u27	Mr Minister, the Corte dei Conti, the Italian Court of Auditors, decided, on behalf of the Italian taxpayers, to sue the American bank Morgan Stanley. It accuses Italy of causing losses of EUR 2.7 billion for the Italian State as a result of transactions in derivatives. Like Belgium, Italy faces a large public debt. This had led its leaders to seek assurances against rate movements. The proceeds were acquired in 1995 and 2005. The fall in rates with the financial crisis allowed Italy to borrow at reduced rates but also caused losses on these derivatives. However, for the Corte dei Conti, certain contracts between Italy and Morgan Stanley were purely speculative and included termination clauses that were abnormally favourable to the bank. Finally, Morgan Stanley had terminated these derivative contracts by paying three billion euros from the Italian State. Minister, can you tell me whether, like Italy, Belgium has recorded significant losses on derivatives acquired to protect itself from rate movements? How much, if any, do they amount to? What relationship does Belgium have with Morgan Stanley in debt management? Has Belgium entered into contracts similar to those of the Italian State with Morgan Stanley? When? At which establishment? For what amount? Is legal action comparable to that brought by the Corte dei Conti envisaged and possible by Belgium? If so, under what procedure and within what time frame? To your knowledge, have any other European states brought such actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u28	In 2015 and 2016, the Belgian State paid a total of EUR 2.57 billion to several swap counterparties and interest rate swaps. These were swaps concluded in 2014 with which the Treasury protected itself against a possible rate increase in 2015 and 2016. I refer you to the annual public debt report of these years for further explanation of these transactions. I have always refused to qualify these payments as losses since the objective was to reduce the risk of resetting rates. This objective has been achieved. The Treasury was also well aware that such a contract would result in either a revenue in case the rates actually increased or an expenditure in case the rates decreased. This is the last case that has occurred, as you undoubtedly know. Morgan Stanley Bank is one of the primary dealers of the Debt Agency. The bank participates in the agency's borrowing operations and has obligations in terms of what is known as the market making. In principle, it is a possible counterpart to swap operations. But none of the 2014 operations were concluded with Morgan Stanley. The Belgian State does not intend to initiate a comparable legal action vis-à-vis its swap counterparties. The rights and obligations of the State and its counterparties were indeed balanced. Finally, your last question concerns what other countries may be doing. I do not have any specific information on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for that specific answer. I think that the decision of a judicial action by the Italian Court of Auditors is rather unusual, original. To be continued. I think that in debt management there may be intermediaries or counterparties who have States sign what could be called a "Leonin Contract." You consider that Belgium has been well protected, and has acted with knowledge of the matter. I take note of that. Nevertheless, this is a hypothesis – i.e., challenging this type of contract a posteriori – that should not be overlooked for the future. I'll pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u30	Mr Laaouej, you can ask your question number 20169.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u31	I wish to withdraw it, Mr. Speaker, because the minister has introduced a bill on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u32	Mr President, Minister, this is a follow-up question. In May 2015, I brought in the article from The Last News, you announced that you would instruct your administration to conduct a preliminary study into the impact of a possible update of the cadastral incomes. In the meantime, we are more than two years away. Has that study been completed and can you agree that the committee should have access to that study?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u33	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, we all know that the methodology on which the AI is calculated is, to say the least, a little dated. This has been the case for decades. I have indeed, and rightly so, asked the administration to make a detailed analysis of the whole subject matter and to make proposals on the basis of that analysis. That analysis has not yet been finalised and there are certainly no proposals yet. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that we have to go through the administration quite a bit of material in the context of a few reforms that we are doing. They make that not always undivided attention can go in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u34	Mr President, Minister, it is a pity that it is taking so long. It would be a good thing if we could have that discussion on the basis of correct data, even independently of party political views. This would allow us to look at the more appropriate path of fair taxation in the future. You can expect me to come back to this within a few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u35	Minister, we read about this agreement in the press a while ago with some surprise. It showed that you received the top man from a company to talk about a conflict that that company had with the BBI. The chronology of the facts as described in the article in De Tijd by journalist Bové also shows that the final settlement of the BBI, after you had received the top man, was much more favourable than the original claim of the BBI. The BBI is not known to be affected, but the facts described in Mr Bové's article do raise a number of questions. Mr Minister, are the facts as described in that article correct? Has Ludo Sarens been on your cabinet to talk about his concrete tax file? Did you personally talk to him about the conflict with the BBI? When did this meeting take place? What was the amount of the BBI's claim at that time? For what amount was an agreement concluded with the BBI in the end? When did that happen in concrete terms? Have you or a cabinet employee contacted the relevant board of the BBI or the central services of the BBI about the Sarens case? If so, when did this happen and who was contacted? More generally, how many taxpayers or representatives of taxpayers have you personally talked about their specific tax file since your arrival? How many were received by an employee of your cabinet? In how many cases was there a hanging file with the BBI? In how many cases was this contacted with the BBI?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u36	Mr Vanvelthoven, I have indeed received Mr Ludo Sarens, more than a year ago. The door of my cabinet is open to anyone who wants to see me. For all sectors, for all organisations and companies. And, you may remember, even for the Young Socialists, who hadn't even made an appointment. It goes without saying that the tax authorities, and in this case the BBI, are fully autonomous, as it goes without saying that the persons concerned are referred to the competent authorities in the event of disputes. On the specific content of an individual dossier, I cannot and cannot give you any details, as you know. The only thing I can give you, and what was also explicitly checked by the administration, is that the difference between the original claim in the case we are talking about here and the settlement finally reached can be explained by the amended Article 219 of the WIB, which adjusts the attack on secret commissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u37	Mr Minister, you did not answer the question whether you contacted the BBI directly on that file. May I draw your attention to the fact that you do not wish to answer that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u38	I haven't had any direct contact with the BBI on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u40	Mr Minister, the entry tax (BIV) is a one-off tax which every owner of a new or second-hand vehicle has to pay from the entry into service of the vehicle on the public road in Belgium. As for a car, the BIV is paid for an engine once, but, unlike the BIV for car dynamometers, environmental criteria do not play any role here. One is taxed on the basis of the power and age of the motorcycle. A few years ago, the BIV for motor vehicles was adapted in favour of more environmentally friendly motor vehicles that produce less CO2 emissions. Unfortunately, that rule was not extended to motorcycles. When purchasing a motorcycle, it is not taken into account whether it is environmentally friendly or not. Two factors are important in the calculation, namely the power and age of the motorcycle. Thus, people can pay a high BIV for certain motorcycles with higher HP despite having lower CO2 emissions compared to a lower hp motorcycle. Mr Minister, do you intend to adapt the BIV so that people with a more environmentally friendly motorcycle will have to pay a lower BIV, as in the case of motor vehicles? If so, when could this new arrangement be introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u41	Mrs Lambrecht, the tax on entry is a regional tax. This means that only the regions have the power to determine the tax rate, the tax base and the exemptions from that tax. I am therefore afraid that you will have to turn to my fellow Members from the three regions for an answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u42	I'll certainly do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u43	Minister, the anti-avoidance directive of 12 July 2016 contains provisions on the limitation of the deductibility of interest. It provides that Member States are to adopt, by 31 December 2018 at the latest, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive and that those provisions should apply from 1 January 2019. As regards Article 4 of the Directive on the limitation of the deductibility of interest, the Directive provides that countries may wait for the transposition of the Directive if they have national specific rules to prevent risks on BEPS that are as effective as the rule on interest deduction contained in the Directive. Those countries were required to notify the Commission before 1 July 2017 and to provide it with all the information necessary to assess the effectiveness of those national specific rules. Therefore, Minister, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Claims our country to have national rules governing the limitation of the deductibility of interest be as effective as the rule on interest relief contained in the Directive? When did our country inform the Commission of this? Can the Minister motivate this claim, if there is one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u44	Mr Vanvelthoven, Belgium submitted a request for renewal to the European Commission on 28 June 2016, provided for in the ATAD European Directive. This request explains that a combination of existing national specific rules for the prevention of risk derivatives on BEPS is as effective as the rule on interest relief contained in the Directive. This concerns in particular the limitation of interest deduction to market interest rates as provided for in the Income Tax Code 92, the general and special subcapitalization provisions, the tax as an abnormal and beneficial advantage and the non-deductibility of interest paid to low-tax jurisdictions. Finally, reference has also been made to the application of the general conditions of deduction of costs and to the general anti-abuse clause in respect of artificial constructions both included in the WIB 92.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u45	Do I understand, Minister, that you are asking for an extension of the deadline to comment, or how should I look at it? You will begin by replying that you submitted the request for renewal on 28 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u46	A request for renewal, provided for in the ATAD. The directives therefore provide for an extension of the existing regime to be applied for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u48	Then we move on to point 33.1, which is a series of questions from Mr Vanvelthoven and Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u49	Mr Vanvelthoven, if I have understood your e-mail correctly, you would like to ask all these questions separately. I suggest that we then proceed with a question per question. I do not know whether the questions overlap with those of Mr Laaouej. In paragraph 33, there are the questions raised by Messrs. Vanvelthoven and Laaouej. Mr Vanvelthoven asked to deal with these issues separately. Mr Laaouej, some of your questions are the same as those of Mr Vanvelthoven. So if Mr Vanvelthoven asks his question, you can ask your question at the same time, so that we have one answer. The first question concerns the limitation of the deductibility of interest and the exceptions provided for in the anti-avoidance directive. We've already dealt with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u50	No, it is not, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u51	Mr President, of course this is all about parts of the corporate tax reform. I have no problem with all these questions being raised here, but my answer will be the same in each of these cases. In each case, it will be the same. We are currently in the process of finalizing all proposals for ISOC reform in detail within the government. I therefore propose that these questions be answered in detail when the government closes these discussions. It will certainly be for the next few days, but for now, we are in the process of finalizing the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u52	Minister, when will you decide on the reform of corporate taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u53	Eventually, that decision will fall within the government. It goes without saying that legal deadlines must be respected, for example in order for the reduction to start on 1 January 2018. So it's a matter of days rather than weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u54	Will we have more clarity about this during the period of the State of the Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u55	Well, then we'll be a long way away anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u56	There is a difficulty. Members rightly submit their questions, but the government does not yet have final texts. The texts will probably not be available to Parliament until the draft laws have received an opinion from the Council of State. I think it will be at the end of November or at the beginning of December. I don't know what my fellow Members think about that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u57	Mr President, for me, the report of this sitting should include the fact that the texts are not yet ready, which means that the Minister is not yet in a position to reply in substance. I suggest that we discuss this again at the next committee meeting and that the Minister responds as soon as the texts are ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u58	Mr. President, what if there is no agreement within the government? I believe that the questions asked are intended to at least be able to know the general philosophy of the Minister of Finance, the way in which he deals with the issue. He is not asked to answer us in detail. This will eventually be the subject of a bill. I think there are still some questions that we are asking ourselves, which could be answered, even in general terms. If each time we have to be suspended from government activity to ask questions - "there is an ongoing discussion", "there is an ongoing project", etc. - we might not ask a lot of questions anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u59	Mr Laaouej, the general principle of ISOC reform is clear, I believe. This is a reduction in the base rate, if I may call it that, from 34 to 25 per cent in 2020, budgetaryly neutral and offset by an enlargement of the taxable base. There are therefore changes in the number and type of tax deductions that can be made, but also in the characteristics of the deductions. As you know very well – you are better fiscalist than I do – the devil is in the detail. So I don't want to move on to detailed decisions that are in the middle of discussion. Currently, an IKW regarding ISOC is being held at my office. As I just said, I can describe the general principles. But in the very interesting elements that you and Mr. Vanvelthoven have put forward, there are a lot of details to settle before giving you a precise answer. At the moment, I say frankly, the work within the government is under way. So I am not going to move on to the decisions that have yet to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u60	For the right form, I think we can still ask the questions and the minister will answer as he wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u61	I suggest that we go down the question point by point and that the Minister says: I am not giving an answer for the time being. Then we can see that question per question. That is the only way, I believe, because there are no draft laws yet. They also form a whole. Of course, statements have already been made in the press, interviews have been given, there are other reports, but well, the texts that are being submitted in Parliament ultimately count for us. I suggest, Mr Vanvelthoven, that you simply ask your questions, and the Minister will have to answer. If he has a standard answer, he refers to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u62	I agree, Mr President, but on the understanding that if I repeat these questions tomorrow, you will not reject them because they have already been tabled. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u63	I would like to postpone them all until next meetings, when they are appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u64	I would like a formal reply from the Minister in which he says that there are no texts and that he does not reply for that reason. I would like to see this formalized, just like Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u65	No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u66	I want to read them all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u67	Mr President, does it not make sense for me to give one answer to the questions put in globo? I will repeat each of the themes in my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u68	Okay, yeah.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u69	Mr Minister, my first question concerns the anti-avoidance directive of 12 July 2016, which includes provisions on the limitation of the deductibility of interest. Article 4 of the Directive on the limitation of the deductibility of interest provides for a number of exceptions to the general rule, as provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2. In other words, Member States may choose to weaken the general rules on interest reduction. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, in accordance with paragraph 3 of that Article, the taxable person may be granted the right to deduct the financing costs in excess of EUR 3 million and, second, to deduct the financing costs in full, if the taxable person is a separate entity. In accordance with paragraph 4, Member States may exclude from the scope of paragraph 1 the cost of financing if it arises in connection with loans concluded before 17 June 2016 and, second, loans used to finance a long-term public infrastructure project. In accordance with paragraph 5, Member States may grant a taxable person who is a member of a group consolidated for accounting purposes and who fulfils certain conditions the right to a full deduction of his financing costs in excess of that amount or, second, the right to a higher deduction than provided for in paragraph 1. In accordance with paragraph 6, a Member State may provide for rules on the forward and even backward netting of the financing cost surplus that cannot be deducted during the current tax period. Article 6 provides for three possible netting rules. Finally, in accordance with paragraph 7, Member States may exclude financial undertakings from the scope even if they form part of a consolidated group of financial accounts. Can you tell me for each of the paragraphs 3 to 7 whether our country chooses to weaken the general rule and, if applicable, what options? Having regard to the options chosen, have you already had an estimate of the possible budgetary impact of introducing the interest reduction? Could you explain this estimate if necessary? My next question concerns the introduction of the CFC rules as laid down in the Anti-Avoidance Directive of 12 July 2016. An entity or permanent establishment whose profits in the Member State are not subject to tax or exempt from tax shall be considered as a controlled foreign company if that entity is owned by a taxable person for more than 50% and the corporation tax actually paid is less than half of the corporation tax that would have been levied in the Member State of the taxable person under the applicable company system. According to Paragraph 12 of the preamble, in order to ensure a higher level of protection, Member States may reduce the control threshold or apply a higher threshold when comparing the company tax actually paid with the corporation tax which would have been levied in the Member State of the taxable person. Will our country make use of these opportunities? According to the preamble, it is acceptable for Member States to use white, grey or black lists of third countries to transpose the CFC rules into national legislation. They are drawn up on the basis of the level of corporation tax rates in third countries. Will our country make use of that opportunity? If so, what corporate tax rate would our country choose to determine whether a controlled foreign company could be involved? The Directive does not provide for an exception for the transposition of Article 5 on CFC rules. The Directive requires Member States to adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with it by 31 December 2018. Those provisions should also apply from 1 January 2019. However, under the Summer Agreement, the government communicated that the CFC rules will not apply until 2020. That is why I have the following question. What is the reason why the introduction of the CFC rules, contrary to the Directive, will only apply from 2020? Mr Minister, have you already had an estimate of the possible budgetary impact of the introduction of the CFC rules? Could you explain the estimate if necessary? My next question concerns the notional interest deduction. The company tax reform plan decided that the notional interest deduction would be reformed into an incremental deduction. Well-informed specialists describe the new notional interest deduction as follows: "From 2018, the notional interest deduction will no longer be granted on the basis of the total amount of own funds, but on the basis of the increase in own funds, the so-called "incremental" own funds. Any increase in own funds will be spread over five years. In the case of a capital increase of 100, the notional deduction will no longer be obtained at 100 at once but at 20 for five years." The transfer of the stock to notional interest deduction from the past continues as it is included in the so-called minimum tax. Minister, I would like to hear from you the following. Can you confirm and explain the above-mentioned description of the new notional income deduction? Will the new notional interest deduction only apply to capital increases from 1 January 2018? Will there be a transitional arrangement? In other words, will the old notional interest deduction become extinct or will from next year onwards, irrespective of the transfer of stock to notional interest deduction, only notional interest deduction be charged under the new incremental scheme? What is the budgetary assessment of the administration in relation to the reform of the notional income deduction? For the valuation years 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, can you provide the following information relevant for this discussion on the basis of corporate tax returns: the deduction for risk capital (code 1435), the deduction for risk capital transferred from the previous taxable periods (code 1438), the balance of the deduction for risk capital transferred (code 1711), the balance of the deduction for risk capital transferred to the next taxable period (code 1712)? Mr President, Minister, my next question concerns the introduction of fiscal consolidation. The company tax reform plan decided to introduce a fiscal consolidation according to Swedish model from 2020. However, there is no fiscal consolidation in Sweden. There is, however, a system whereby, within a group, the profits of a company can be transferred to a loss-making company in the group, the sum transferred being deductible from the profitable company and taxable from the receiving company. Is it such a scheme that Belgium will introduce in line with the Summer Agreement and in the context of corporate tax reform? Can you explain this? What is the budgetary assessment of the introduction of such a scheme? Mr President, Minister, my next question concerns the reform of negligence and moratorium interests. The company tax reform plan decided that the moratorium and negligence interests would be reformed. The moratorium residue amounts to a minimum of 2 % from 2018 and is linked to the OLO. The negligence interest will always be 2 % higher. What is the envisaged budgetary impact of this reform? What amount of moratorium residues did the FPS Finance pay in each of the years 2014, 2015 and 2016? What amount of negligence was received by the FPS Finance in each of the years 2014, 2015 and 2016? Mr President, Minister, my next question concerns the losses transferred. The company tax reform plan will introduce a so-called minimum tax. The basket that will be deductible on a limited basis in a given tax year includes, among other things, the losses transferred and the transferred FDI deduction. In an interview, you indicated that the losses transferred will remain transferable indefinitely. The same applies to the DBI deduction. Can you confirm that both the transferred DBI deduction and the transferred losses remain unlimited carry-overs? What is the budgetary assessment of the administration regarding the introduction of the so-called minimum tax? For the 2012 to 2016 tax years, please provide the following information relevant for this discussion on the basis of the corporate tax returns: the income definitively taxed and exempt movable income (code 1433), the costs related to the definitively taxed income and exempt movable income (code 1641), the deduction transferred definitively taxed income that is transferable to the following taxable period (code 1704), the previous losses (code 1436), the balance of the compensatory previous losses (code 1721) and the loss to be transferred to the following taxable period (code 1730). Then I come to my questions about the fairness tax. Minister, you have repeatedly indicated that you are not in favour of the fairness tax. To my question No. 19664 on the ruling of the European Court of Justice on fairness tax, you carefully confirmed that a repair is possible following that judgment, but that you wished to await the judgment of the Constitutional Court before proposing legislative amendments. The agreement on corporate tax reform does not mention the fairness tax, at least not in the notifications published. The chairman of the VBO recently stated in an interview that this was one of the construction errors in the agreement. Minister, will the fairness tax continue to exist in the context of the decided corporate tax reform? Will the fairness tax be repaired if necessary as I suggested in my question No. 19664? Will this be repaired within the framework of the draft law that we can expect on corporate tax reform? How much was the separate attack of the fairness tax, with code 1504, for the tax years 2014, 2015 and 2016? How many companies have entered the code 1504 for those tax years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u70	Minister, when you read your July agreement, it seems that a tax consolidation system is planned for 2020, based on the Swedish model. In fact, there is a mechanism in Sweden that allows, within a group, a company's gain to be collected and sent to a company in loss in the group. The amount so transferred is deductible in the bonus corporation and taxable in the receiving corporation. Is it such a regulation that will be introduced in Belgium following the summer agreement and as part of the corporate tax reform? Can you explain it? What is the budget estimate of the introduction of such a regulation? As you know, Minister, establishing a budget estimate of a tax consolidation will be a particularly difficult exercise as it requires knowledge of the financial statements of related subsidiaries or businesses. ToFFut depends on how you design things. It all depends on the perimeter of the consolidation. Depending on whether it is limited or extended, it will need to be known if a budget estimate is to be made. Secondly, we must pay attention to tax optimisation because, through tax consolidation, you offer a new space through which or in which tax optimisation schemes could be created, which could prove very costly. Moreover, it would be of immediate interest to look at the ongoing reflections at the OECD in the context of the BEPS or even the BEPS 2 and to see how the problem of tax consolidation is addressed by avoiding the possibilities of tax optimisation. I come to my other questions concerning the reform of notional interests in the context of corporate tax reform. As part of the ISOC reform, the government is announcing an important reform of notional interests. Are we going towards a disappearance of notional interests or towards a reform of them? It would appear that, as of 2018, the deduction can no longer be granted on the basis of the total amount of own funds but on the basis of their growth. This is, in any case, something to be considered, because if we want to encourage own funds as opposed to third-party financing, it would be logical to limit the calculation of notional interest to additional own funds rather than to own funds considered to be a stock. Each increase in own funds would be spread over five years and there would be a five-year scale of the deduction. Minister, could you explain the proposed amendment to us a little bit? Will it actually be applied from 2018? What is the budget estimate for this measure? Minister, as we know, you are not in favour of fairness tax, i.e. the minimum business tax introduced under the previous government. You were talking to us, I think, about a dead body falling from the closet, probably from suspense films or police films. It is true that there can be a resemblance between taxation and police films! The Court of Justice of the European Union was asked about the fairness of this tax and its compliance with European rules. In any case, you have taken advantage of this opportunity to try to repeal it or to give a signal to that effect. However, in the context of Budget 2018 and the corporate tax reform, there is no trace of the removal of this minimum tax. Of course, we can only rejoice. Can you confirm that you have changed your mind and that you do not have the ambition to remove fairness tax? Could you also tell us whether you intend to introduce a law of reparation quickly in response to the opinion of the Court of Justice? If that is the case, we could analyse the bill that I tabled with my colleagues in Sp.a., which is No. 2250. Finally, what is the annual budgetary performance of this measure since it came into force? Another question, as part of your corporate tax reform project, it seemed to me to understand that you could put in place a scheme that is similar to the minimum corporate tax. What about it? I would also like to point out that the government must soon send its draft budget to Europe, its trajectory. I still imagine that at some point, all the arbitrations we're talking about will have to be done. So I was a little surprised that the minister is not giving us a more important answer, given that the European deadlines are there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u71	The whole of the questions put by Mr Vanvelthoven and Mr Laaouej refer to how the directive of 12 July 2016 will be incorporated into our national law and how the announced measures will be implemented. The limitation of the deductibility of interest rates, the introduction of the CFC rules, the rules on notional interest deductions, fiscal consolidation, negligence and moratorium interests, the limitation of the losses transferred and the fairness tax are part of the overall plan for corporate tax reform. I propose to conduct the discussion on this reform and therefore on these measures when we begin the discussion of the bill that I intend to table shortly. All aspects can be addressed, including the budgetary impact. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u72	It is a bit of a confused agenda, but I see the questioners coming in drop by drop.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u73	Mr Minister, on 30 June, on the proposal of Minister Jan Jambon and your cabinet, the Council of Ministers took certain decisions in the context of the restructuring of the SA Sopima, namely: to authorize the Régie des Bâtiments to transfer, in the context of the procedure for the redemption of own shares, to Sopima the two shares it holds in the capital of that company; to bring, in the context of the procedure for the increase of capital of the SFPI, the 1,267 shares held by the Federal State in the capital of the Sopima; to authorize the merger by absorption of the Sopima by the SFPI Sopima manages administrative buildings. She's doing office renovations. It was formed in 1996 by the then Council of Ministers. Many people saw it as a new step towards the privatization of the Régie des Bâtiments. The objectives of this organisation were then to boost the management of real estate and to achieve the budgetary objective imposed by the Council of Ministers. Previously, SFPI held 25.09 % of Sopima's capital (a value of 61.5 million euros), the Federal State, 75 % and the Régie des Bâtiments held two symbolic shares. In view of the important decision that has recently been taken with regard to the Sopima and the sums at stake, I would like to know the concrete tasks that the Sopima must carry out, the sums invested by the Federal State. What has been the use of these amounts and what is left of them today (return on investments)? Can you provide us with the details of the Sopima's financial situation, before it is absorbed? Can you provide a list of the assets that were under Sopima's jurisdiction and that were transferred? What are the objectives of the SFPI in the management of assets recovered through the absorption of Sopima?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u74	Mr Vanden Burre, as you pointed out in the preamble to your question, the government has taken the necessary decisions to complete the merger by absorption of the Sopima SA by the SFPI SA The notarized acts which will carry out this operation were passed on 27 July, on the understanding that both the SA Sopima authorities and the SA SFPI authorities have taken the necessary steps to complete the final process leading to this merger. This merger is the result of a process initiated at the request of the SA Sopima Board of Directors some two and a half years ago. As a result, SA Sopima has no assets (real estates) in its assets to date. That is already the answer to your third question. With regard to the tasks that SA Sopima was to carry out, after having used the valuation of assets in its possession as of 31 December 2016, I can tell you that it has no more, strictly speaking, to fulfil. To date, the Board of Directors and Management have managed the process of closing the business and transferring the existing financial assets in consultation with the shareholders, the SFPI, the Régie des Bâtiments and the Federal State. I think I have answered your first question. The financial situation of SA Sopima has changed positively since its inception in 1996. Each year, the company was able to award a dividend to its shareholders. Since its foundation, Sopima has distributed a dividend equivalent to €113.41 million. 2016 also ended with a positive result of €2 million. As a reminder, SA Sopima's accounts are, like other public corporations, consolidated in the State accounts. It is therefore essentially in terms of its contribution to the relief of public debt that its results must be gauged. Starting with equity of 203 million in 1996, of which 3.8 million euros in cash from what was to become the SFPI, and although having carried out successive operations - notably a reduction of capital by repayments to shareholders for an amount of some 90 million euros - Sopima closed the year 2016 with equity of 237 million euros. Thus, beyond the dividend mentioned above, we can measure the support that SA Sopima has been able to provide to the State. I would also point out that, in accordance with the Royal Decree on the consolidation of the State's assets, the financial resources available to that company are placed with bpost in securities representing the public debt. That's your second question! Finally, the SFPI recovers, at the end of the merger already mentioned, purely financial assets which, after charging the costs inherent in the merger process, will be paid – at the request of the government – to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The SFPI cannot therefore be seen as continuing the action of the S.A. Sopima but only as the instrument that allowed the rationalisation of a public structure that had lost its raison d'être.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u75	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I will refer to the record to be in possession of all the figures. I would like to take this opportunity to say that it would still be interesting, as part of the Commission's work, to take a moment to listen to the representatives of the SFPI in relation to its 2016 results. The activity report must be almost ready. Unless I'm wrong, he's not on the site yet, but he must be in the process of being finalized. Having an exchange on this subject by the end of the year can be useful. It is interesting to listen to this institution on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u76	Mr President, Minister, you raised my oral question No 28 April. 17672 replied that the federal government was working on a solution to the problem of payment of fees to stewards at football matches. The FPS Interior had then contacted the FPS Finance to update the specific tax system of stewards. You said that work was being done at that time to bring about an actualisation with all that goes with it in terms of the amounts and so on. For their remuneration, stewards are currently either subject to voluntary work legislation or to the specific tax system described in tax circulars. For volunteers there is a daily ceiling of 33.36 euros, and an annual ceiling of 1334.55 euros. These are the indexed amounts for 2017. On the other hand, there is a daily ceiling of EUR 25 in the specific tax system, which has never been indexed. But there's no annual ceiling. In the hearings in 2016 in the Home Affairs Committee on the evaluation of the Football Act, both the Pro League and the FPS Home Affairs Football Cell made it clear that the stewards are in a problem situation due to this year's ceiling if they act within the voluntary service. That is why they also called for the statute to be amended. In the context of the draft law amending the law of 21 December 1998 on security at football matches, we organised hearings on 20 July 2017, and there the Pro League reiterated that an extension of the privileges of the stewards would not make sense if the financial statute for these employees were not also amended. In addition, the Royal Decree on the stewards, as an implementing measure of the Football Act, requires stewards and safety officers to take more and more training and therefore to devote more time and energy to their task. This was a long explanation, but my questions are quite simple, Minister. Where are the discussions on this issue between the FPS Home Affairs and the FPS Finance? When will the new regulation come into force? Will there be a separate arrangement for chief stewards and security officers? Or is it intended to be reimbursed according to leisure work, for which the principle was approved in the Summer Agreement of late July?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u77	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, my administration has been in intense contact with the Home Affairs Office in recent times and has very recently received additional information. This is currently being studied with a view to defining as accurately as possible the scope of the desired extension of the statute you are referring to. Of course, I will not fail to inform you further about the evolution of this dossier in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I read between the lines what you didn't say, but what I can suspect. I just want to point out the sense of urgency, not only because the Pro League, the Football League and the FPS Home Affairs have already reported this, but also because the Football Act is coming to the vote very soon with this bill. As a result, the remuneration for the stewards will become even more current and pragmatizing. In principle, we will be able to proceed to the vote one of the following weeks, up to a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u79	Mr President, Minister, on 30 August 2013, VUB published a study on behalf of the then Flemish government which examined whether and how a specific statute for semi-oral work could be created for sports counsellors. In 2016 a follow-up contract was awarded by the current Flemish government to VUB to develop a coherent legal framework. In short, the study suggested that all stewards, judges, referees, coaches or coordinators, who, in addition to their usually at least half-time job, are basically at least four-fifths, still active in a sports club, should earn up to 15 euros per hour, for a maximum of 500 hours per year. There is also a ceiling of EUR 5 000 per year. Leisure workers semi-racial work and leisure work is the same... should not pay social security on the allowances and the first 30% of the merit would also be exempt from taxes. The remaining 70 % will then be loaded at 25 %. Anyone who would earn EUR 5 000 a year would therefore be left with EUR 4 125 on this schedule. The study was funded by the Flemish government but the final decision on this issue lies with the federal government. The Summer Agreement decided that people who work four fifths can earn 500 euros a month free of tax. In the first instance, this would only be possible for people in the non-profit sector such as sports coaches but also supervisors in after-school care and also a conductor of a choir. So it seems like an agreement that is quite similar to the VUB study ordered by the Flemish government. The amount has risen from EUR 5 000 to EUR 6 000 maximum. More importantly, income will no longer be tax-taxed but will be tax-free while the VUB added another tax to it. I come to my questions. Is there already a limited list of sectors within the non-profit sector that will be able to benefit from this new regime? Is there a list of specific functions in the non-profit that may be eligible for this? Can you confirm that stewards, judges, referees, coaches and coordinators will be able to make use of the new scheme? Is the amount of EUR 500 also to be totally exempted from social contributions? How will the new scheme relate to the existing payment of voluntary service allowances? This is important because there is already a principle of duty-free work in volunteering. In what way does the government take into account the shifts that will take place from the existing voluntary service to the new system? How do you see the timing for the new scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u80	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, the agreement reached by the government on the tax-free additional income of EUR 500 per month or EUR 6 000 per year is currently being developed in technical working groups. They will, inter alia, refine and finalise the scope of the measure. Your question about the exemption from social contributions is, of course, in principle the responsibility of my colleague Mrs De Block, Minister for Social Affairs. However, I can confirm that the agreement reached in the government this summer also means that there is an exemption from social contributions. The aim is to put the regulation to the vote in Parliament by the end of 2017 so that it can enter into force effectively from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u81	Minister, you know that I am mainly concerned with the sport sector. I know that in the sports clubs the question of being able to compensate their trainers correctly is very topical. At the moment, this is often done with volunteering and it is not always done in the right way. In some cases it is used to do so in order to ensure that those concerned can continue to work duty-free. However, I am pleased that the scheme could enter into force as from 1 January 2018. In that case, there will be a hole in the sky in a lot of sports clubs. I'm very satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u82	Mr President, I was President of the Port of Brussels and that is why I am concerned about this subject. As you know, in our home, cumulating mandates is not done. So I'm not. Mr Minister, on 27 July the European Commission decided that the exemption from corporate tax for French and Belgian ports should be abolished. Commissioner Vestager said: "Unjust company tax exemptions for ports distort fair and fair conditions of competition." I insist on the words "unwarranted exemptions". In Belgium, however, a whole range of sea and river ports such as Antwerp, Bruges, Brussels, Charleroi, Ghent, Liège, Namur and Ostend, as well as some ports along the canals in Hainaut and Flanders are not subject to the general corporate taxation regime. To date, they have benefited from a specific scheme and therefore pay less taxes overall than other companies engaged in economic activities in Belgium. In France, most ports are completely exempt from corporate tax. For the European Commission, these exemptions are similar to illegal state aid, which provides Belgian and French ports with a competitive advantage "in particular, tax exemptions do not pursue a clear public interest objective, such as promoting mobility or multimodal transport". The Commission has challenged our country to terminate these exemptions by January 1, 2018. Minister, how do you read this decision of the European Commission? Have formal or informal contacts been made with the French Government in order to respond in a coordinated manner to the Commission's expectations? Have the three regions which exercise their competence in the management of inland waterways but above all in the promotion of the very ecological use of the waterway for the transport of goods been agreed by your services for the implementation of the future Belgian tax regime concerning their ports? In this emerging tax system, consider maintaining the tax exemption to promote the green mobility of goods and multimodal transport, as allowed by European law and the recent Commission decision. If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u83	Mr. Hellings, the Income Tax Code lists a number of corporations and corporations not subject to corporate tax. It is essentially a number of public bodies with one or the other status granting them autonomy of management. In particular, the same Code excludes a number of ports from such liability. These legal persons are also subject to the tax of legal persons under the same Code. The European Commission wants Belgium to take the necessary measures to put an end to the tax exemption in order to ensure that from 1 January 2018 all ports are subject to the same tax rules as other companies. The Government does not consider it necessary to consult with the French authorities on this matter in order to adjust its taxation. In addition, contacts with the three regions are still ongoing regarding the implementation of the legislative adaptation to be made in our Income Tax Code 92 (IARC 92) with regard to ports. My services are examining the best steps to be taken to meet the expectations of the European Commission and to ensure, on the one hand, fair tax treatment for the various legal persons and, on the other hand, to maintain as far as possible the measures allowing Belgium to continue its policy of developing economic activity. Maritime and river transport is one of the key tools in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is important that the tax measures taken ensure that there are fewer trucks of goods on our roads and highways. It is a matter of respecting our international commitments and, in particular, the Paris Agreement signed a year ago. Clearly, the European Commission is encouraging you to make a tax shift to ensure that it is no longer legal persons who are exempt from tax but ecological and environmental activities that are exempt. So this is the work that your administration, your firm and yourself will have to do. The aim is to ensure that environmentally-friendly activities that are meaningful – that is, those that help us emit less CO2 and fine particles that are harmful to our health – are exempted in order to encourage our businesses and citizens to use waterways as a mode of transport for goods. We must remain attentive to how this tax exemption can be maintained together, while adapting our legislation to European law, as the Commission points out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u85	Minister, I want to make you aware of two issues that arise with respect to the innovation income deduction and that may relate to corporate tax returns that must be returned by tomorrow! The Act of 9 February 2017 introducing a deduction for innovation income states that "in determining the deduction for innovation income for a taxable period, the innovation income to be taken into account is that part of the net income that relates exclusively to an intellectual property right". The intellectual property rights eligible for the innovation income deduction are limited to Article 205/1, §2, 1° of the Income Tax Code 1992 (IARC 92). With the exception of patents or supplementary protection certificates, this provision specifies that only intellectual rights acquired after June 30, 2016, or, for a computer program, which did not generate revenue before July 1, 2016, shall be taken into account. In other words, only income generated after July 1, 2016 is taken into account for the calculation of the innovation income deduction. Article 205/1, §2, 3°, of IARC 92 stipulates that the gross amount of innovation income shall be reduced by the total expenditure recorded in costs, incurred or incurred during that taxable period. In addition, Article 543 of IARC 92 states that "the taxpayer may claim the application of the deduction for patent income in accordance with Articles 205/1 to 205/4 or Article 236bis, as they existed before their repeal by Articles 4 to 8 of the Act of August 3, 2016, for patent income received until June 30, 2021 included". In this connection, the parliamentary proceedings state that "the costs incurred or incurred until 30 June 2021 must no longer be offset the first time that the deduction for innovation income is used". The combined reading of all these sections could result in discrimination or, at the very least, a contradiction if the deduction of overall expenditures for the 2016 taxable period as well as historical costs are not limited to expenses incurred by the taxpayer since July 1, 2016. In fact, patent holders must only deduct the total expenditure from 1 July 2016 whereas, for other intellectual rights, companies should deduct the total expenditure incurred since 1 January 2016 – taking into account the reference to the "taxable period". Minister, can you therefore confirm that, given the coming into force of the Act from February 9, 2017, to July 1, 2016, it is appropriate to understand the concept of a taxable period for 2016 as covering the period from July 1, 2016 until the end of the relevant taxable period? In addition, Article 205/1, § 2, 4° of IARC 92 specifies that expenditure on research and development which is made by the company for research and development activities carried out by the company itself constitutes qualifying expenditure. As far as computer programs are concerned, the travaux préparatoires specify "that it is obvious that the development of a computer program carried out by the company itself is understood as the initial acquisition of the right developed by an employee, a manager or a subcontractor, whether it intervenes through the presumption of assignment of right or through an agreement". Therefore, the costs associated with the acquisition of copyright are considered to be qualifying expenses for the company. In practice, there are situations in which the manager intervenes through a management company for the invoicing of his services and the assignment of copyrights. Minister, can you confirm that the development of a computer program carried out by the company itself is also understood as the initial acquisition of the right developed by the company manager when the company charges its services and the transfer of its copyright through a management company?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u86	Mr Piedboeuf, there is indeed a similar approach between the application of the innovation income deduction for a patent whose patent income deduction has already been applied and a patent for which this has not occurred. In both cases, all costs relating to this patent made or incurred during the 2016 accounting year – and not only those incurred or incurred from 1 July 2016 – will be deducted from innovation income. When the innovation income deduction is applied for the first time in 2017 or later, it is not only this year's costs but also the historical costs incurred or incurred in previous years, ending after June 30, 2016, that must be deducted. These historical costs may, where appropriate, be spread over a period of up to seven years. Again, no distinction is made between a patent whose patent deduction has already been applied and a patent for which this has not occurred. It is only if the patent income deduction is still applied within a fiscal year that ends after June 30, 2016 and it is changed from July 1, 2021 to an innovation income deduction, that the historical costs incurred or incurred during the periods for which the patent income deduction was applied should no longer be offset in the innovation income deduction, since the deductibility of costs only applies to the innovation income deduction and not to the patent income deduction scheme. With regard to the case of a computer program developed by a company manager that charges its services via a management company, I can tell you that these invoiced expenses are not considered to be qualifying. This is about spending on a related company.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u87	Minister, thank you. It's perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u88	Mr. President, Minister, section 44 of the FPS Finances website regarding the display tax states that "Section 190 of the Code provides that the amount of the tax is 0.50 euro per square metre or fraction of square metre when the surface of the poster is 1 square metre or more". What about tarpaulins, parasols and other advertising products? What about controls? Who's in charge? In some cases, the tax is minimal in relation to the cost of carrying out the check. Minister, how much does this tax pay to the Crown?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u89	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, the purpose of the 2003 amendment to which you refer is, among other things, to avoid having to carry out checks on posters and other advertising objects of less than one square metre for which the amount of the tax payable is likely to be minimal in relation to the cost of the inspection. The "Miscellaneous taxes" service of the "Grandes Entreprises Gestion et Contrôle Spécialisé" centre in Brussels is responsible for monitoring the collection and correct payment of this tax. These checks may be carried out at the headquarters of the various parties involved in an advertising campaign, including manufacturers, printers, poster companies or companies benefiting from the advertising. The above is also valid for the different products mentioned in your question. Finally, I should like to point out that the display fee in 2016 was €2.3 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u90	Minister, thank you. I would be curious to compare this recipe to the cost of its perception. I have the impression that the costs are higher. Controls were carried out at some producers where the recipe was a few euros. This tax is quite amazing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u91	Question No 20292 by Mr. Van Hees is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u92	Minister, for a long time now, the ARCO issue has been at the negotiating table, without ever being able to find a reliable solution. A great deal this summer would have finally sealed a deal to compensate ARCO's co-operators. Indeed, the partial sale of Belfius is expected to make it possible to replenish most of the funds provided by the government, to the tune of 400 million. To which are added 200 million from the liquidation of ARCO and a contribution from Beweging.net. However, there are two direct shadows in the picture: firstly, the risk that this solution would be regarded as state aid by Europe since Belfius was saved with taxpayers' money; and secondly, the high level of Beweging.net's contribution, which is uncertain. Minister, I wish to reassure the co-operators. Can you confirm the policy deal about ARCO? Has it also been legally validated by Europe? When can co-operators expect compensation? Will this compensation cover all or only a certain percentage of the losses incurred? As a reminder, the press reported 40% or less. What will be the practical arrangements for the liquidation of the allowance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u93	On the second Tuesday of October 2016, almost a year ago, in his statement on the state of the Union, the Prime Minister confirmed, on behalf of the government, the commitment of an intervention in favour of ARCO co-operators, victims of the problems of the Dexia bank of which ARCO was a shareholder. At the end of July, the government decided to redistribute some of the revenue generated by the potential market entry of Belfius to these co-operators. The implementation of this political agreement is in particular conditional on the agreement of the European Commission, which will have to judge whether or not the envisaged scheme constitutes State aid. If that were the case, the agreement would be overturned and another solution would have to be found. Votes have been raised within the majority and especially within your own party to cast doubts about the legal validity of the agreement. You will admit that it is a bit special to accept something at some point at the negotiating table and then to challenge it either yourself or per person involved. It is probably a way of working in this government. I take note of this, even if I regret it. It is likely that the outcome of the steps taken vis-à-vis the European Commission will influence the development of the case concerning Belfius and ARCO. Indeed, the valorisation of Belfius depends in part on the solution or the absence of a solution in favour of the co-operators. The two files are therefore linked. Minister, can you describe in detail the content of the agreement reached during the summer within the government on compensation for ARCO's co-operators? How will this gesture be funded? How high and how long will co-operators be compensated? They've been waiting a long time. Can you tell me to what extent this file is linked to the entry into the stock market of a share of Belfius' capital? Is the partial stock exchange of Belfius a condition of this compensation? Can you tell me whether a notification has been submitted to the European Commission to have this agreement validated? What are the stages of this consultation procedure? How long is the response expected if it has not already taken place? In case it is, can you communicate it to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u94	Gentlemen of Lamotte and Gilkinet, the modalities of the solution envisaged for ARCO still need to be clarified in legal and financial terms and then presented to the competent European bodies to verify their compatibility with European law. We will provide information on this file in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u95	So it's always "secret defense," if I understand correctly, minister. I'm still hungry about your answer. This is why I want to ask you again as soon as the file is forwarded to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u96	Mr Gilkinet, do you have the solution for ARCO?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u97	Mr President, I certainly see that the Minister of Finance and his party like to play with your feet. I don't know how many times the CD&V has already bought a solution for ARCO, in exchange for a lot of other things. I see that these solutions never come. I understand that very technical or politically sensitive issues are not the subject of a communication, but one of the surprises of the Prime Minister's State of Union speech a year ago was to announce that there was a solution for ARCO. Was it a matter of reassuring a component of government? Has he moved a little too far? At the time of the communication on the budgetary agreement at the end of July, this was still an important element. But when you are questioned, you remain very laconic. Members of your party even dare publicly question the strength of the agreement. This is not serious given the number of people involved. You may also be able to assume that you did not want a solution in this case. It is a mockery of your government colleagues to answer the way you do it, question after question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u98	Mr President, Minister, the press has recently echoed VAT fraud that would have allowed Denmark to finance terrorist activities. These criminal activities would even find ramifications at European level since "carousel"-type networks would have been identified in Spain, Sweden and Germany. Although Belgium is not one of these countries, the issue is one of concern. According to the information at your disposal, can you tell us whether VAT fraud activities have been identified by your services (in synergy with other federal services, including Justice) as part of the financing of terrorist activities in 2014, 2015, 2016 and the first half of 2017? If so, what were the overall amounts? What measures are being taken to prevent and combat VAT fraud in criminal activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u99	Mr Calomne, the ISI is an integral part of Eurofisc – the European network for the fight against carousel fraud – and is on its initiative. As a result, we are quickly informed of major VAT frauds in Europe. Anti-fraud units exchange information on ongoing typologies on a daily and spontaneous basis. To date, there has been no direct link between fraud in our territory and the financing of terrorist activities. However, this type of fraud is often committed by organizations linked to banditry and high crime. It is therefore not precluded that illicit profits obtained may then be used for any criminal activity. For several years, the ISI has been using an ultra-early detection method to prevent VAT fraud. Through this tool, it collaborates with the judiciary in the framework of the "una via" law, especially in serious cases of recidivism or when other offences are committed. In addition, at the end of the year, the ISI will take the lead in coordinating the TNA (Transaction Network Analysis) within Eurofisc, which is not just the implementation of our early detection but at the level of the Union as a whole. As a result, it will be even better equipped to have a view of risks in intra-Community transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u100	Minister, thank you for your reassuring answer. You have indicated that no link has been established to date between VAT fraud and the financing of terrorism. However, we must remain vigilant because, as you have said, nothing is excluded in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u101	Mr President, Minister, the tax fate of businesses working on the Internet in the broad sense is really problematic. Indeed, these companies play with their locations in different states to escape tax in any state. This creates inequality with respect to taxpayers who assume their obligations. At a time when these tax optimisation mechanisms used by large digital companies are increasingly being criticized, France is trying to unite European states around a joint initiative to tax what is known as GAFAs (Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon) country by country, based on their turnover. According to news reports from Le Monde, after France, Germany, Italy and France, Austria, Slovenia, Greece and Bulgaria recently agreed to this project. Poland would also be ready to join. These countries would be ready to sign a joint letter demanding appropriate taxation for the digital economy, and more specifically a tax on the turnover of digital giants. This would be to tax large digital groups on the basis of their income, not their profits, as is the case with corporate tax. In fact, GAFAs are most often organised to concentrate their profits in subsidiaries located in countries where taxation is mildest. This issue had to be addressed at the Finance Ministers' meeting in Tallinn on 15 and 16 September, before European leaders took a stand at the Digital Summit on 29 September. In the face of this tax issue, and even if technical details need to be settled, the 27 States, including Belgium, which is also the victim of this tax dumping, must be able to move forward as quickly as possible. Minister, what do you think of the French initiative to tax GAFAs? Has Belgium been formally asked on the subject? What did she say? Are you ready to support the French initiative? Was the issue discussed at the European meeting on 15 and 16 September? In what terms? What were the favourable and unfavourable views on the subject? What position did you defend? What are the next steps that will lead to a solution to this situation that deprives states, both in and outside Europe, of tax revenues as important as legitimate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u102	Mr President, Minister, you can see that, as is the case in Germany, environmentalists and liberals have common views. Minister, following a French initiative that I personally can only rent, Bulgaria, Austria, Slovenia and Greece join the project of a taxation of GAFA (Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon) country by country, based on their turnover. France would also have obtained the agreement of German Wolfgang Schäuble, who is a "hard", Italian Pier Carlo Padoan, and Spanish Luis de Guindos, who say they are ready to sign a joint letter calling for "appropriate" taxation for the digital economy. The French proposal relates to the introduction of a tax to harmonise the turnover of digital giants, which would be to tax large digital groups on the basis of their income and not their profit, as is the case with corporate tax. GAFAs are most often organised in order to concentrate their profits in subsidiaries located in countries where taxation is mildest. So for now, not Belgium! Legally, a company is subject to taxation in a country only if it has a permanent establishment there, which these groups try at all costs to avoid by arguing, for example, that they are only marketing subsidiaries. Mr Minister, what is Belgium's position on the taxation of GAFAs, given the presence of Google in our territory, in a commune well known to some? What is your response to this initiative by your French counterpart? Pierre Moscovici, European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs, hopes that this dossier will proceed unanimously with the 27 members of the European Union. Do you think that this unanimity is possible, if not desirable, to the extent that it can be a means of blocking a file? Does Belgium advocate enhanced cooperation in this matter, in the event that unanimity is not found? What is the welcome given by your European Finance Ministers to this French proposal at the Ecofin in Tallinn on 15 and 16 September? Mr Minister, I hope, in any case, that you will also be "on the move".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u103	Mr Gilkinet, Mr Flahaux, Belgium is aware of the fact that a number of digital companies, GAFAs, have organised themselves so as not to pay taxes on a global scale. It therefore supports the idea of developing new international tax rules taking into account the economic models used in the digital sector. This would ensure equality of taxation between companies wherever their head office or business is located. Belgium fully supports the idea of introducing fair taxation for economic models used in digital technology. It also believes that a multiplication of unilateral solutions by different States would be potentially harmful both in fiscal and economic terms. I will come back economically at the end of my answer. We are therefore in favour of the French proposal supported by a few other European countries. We believe that this initiative will speed up the process leading to a solution at European Union level or even, why not, global level. It is important, however, to think carefully about the scope of the French proposal, i.e. in particular the undertakings which one wishes to pursue. Consideration should also be given to how best to introduce such a tax in practice in order to minimise administrative burdens for tax authorities as well as for the companies concerned. The development of such a measure can therefore still take some time. Other possible solutions, such as the creation of a virtual permanent establishment, still need to be discussed. Ideally, Belgium favours the multinational G20/OECD framework for the definition of new international tax standards for the digital economy. Digital commerce is not only a European phenomenon. The solution must therefore certainly be developed at a broader level. Member States agreed to reach a common view on this for the Ecofin Council next December. The Commission was requested to make a number of proposals. A first communication from the Commission is expected in the coming days. It seems to us that it is still too early to decide on the continuation of this dossier and on the position that the other Member States will adopt with regard to this project. At this stage, in fact, France's proposal consists only of a letter of intent. Details of possible GAFA taxation are not yet known. The welcome given to the French proposal during the Ecofin which was held in Tallinn on 15 and 16 September was encouraging. However, some States expressed concerns about this proposal. I know that this is not about taxation, but I would still like to add a purely economic aspect to this subject, which I believe is of importance. Mr Gilkinet, the monopoly aspect here is certainly not more important than the taxation aspect but extremely important. We are faced with companies that, de facto, have some kind of monopoly. For me, this raises great questions about the level of privacy and the level of economic activity. We all know that a monopoly develops an economic activity that is less than a competitive system. Here, too, I think that there are revenues that are out of the hands of the states. I believe that there should be an urgent debate on this matter. I'll certainly put it on the Ecofin table. Again, taxation is very important, but the economic aspect is no less so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u104	Mr Minister, we are indeed faced with an evolving field that raises economic, fiscal, but also ethical and copyright issues. If we take only the example of platforms that are intermediaries between customers and hoteliers, we realize that these platforms deprive hoteliers of some of the added value of their activity, put them in a state of economic weakness and that there are almost no taxes paid in countries where the surplus value is realized. I note with interest that you are in favour of the French solution. You have already expressed more scepticism than other initiatives that we found interesting at European level. I think we need to move forward as a matter of urgency. You mentioned the December deadline for the next Ecofin. We will have to be much more effective in making progress on GAFA taxation than Europe is on the taxation of financial transactions, another subject on which I ask you regularly. I really encourage you to maintain this positive position of Belgium and to convince the other European states that might be reluctant because it is ultimately going to preserve our economies. There is room for digital platforms, but, like any other economic player, they have to pay their contribution to life in society as long as they make profits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u105	Mr President, I join my colleague Georges Gilkinet. I would like to thank the Minister and to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Belgian position joins France in this regard. Minister, there is still work to be done. You mentioned the December deadline. I hope that, in the meantime, the Commission will have finalized a proposal and that there will be a consensus on it. On the occasion of my question, I forgot to mention the British position that I do not yet know. (...): Rather against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u106	Alas! But I'm not surprised. This may be one of the reasons why Brexit can be positive. That said, we are building in an important area. You mentioned the economic side and the monopolistic attempts of these big companies, Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon, to which we are ultimately chained, given the way they operate and their monopoly. I thank you, therefore, for insisting on this aspect which I did not mention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u107	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Gilkinet for raising this question. Mr Minister, I have two questions concerning the drinking of wine that was bought in the Fin Shop of Gembloux. You replied to the first question in part in the plenary session last Thursday. For me, it is very important to highlight the fact that this is indeed a matter of food. When the Fin Shop wants to sell food, there are also a lot of obligations on the Fin Shop, such as ensuring the quality of the goods sold. There is also an information obligation vis-à-vis the consumer. Food quality should be guaranteed in order to minimise risks to consumers. Finally, the precautionary principle also applies. I believe that the Fin Shop should comply with these four important principles if it is to offer food. Perhaps you have more information on this than you said in plenary last Thursday. Minister, how is quality controlled and guaranteed? In what way does the Fin Shop try to fill in the four principles mentioned? More importantly, my second question, linked to this, is about the general terms and conditions of sale. The Fin Shop website mentions in the general terms and conditions of sale the following warranty clause: "The sale takes place without any warranty for hidden or selling defects and for the quality and number of items sold. Characteristics, references and descriptions, if any, are informative and in good faith and do not bind the seller in any way. This is stated in article 15 of the general terms of sale, which we can find on the Fin Shop's website. It is not immediately clear in what capacity the government, and in particular the Fin Shop, is in legal traffic. However, it is clear that such a clause completely undermines the obligations of the seller. Such an erosion of the seller's obligations is prohibited, both in the common contract law, the common commercial law and in the sale to consumers. That is certainly true when foodstuffs are sold, because such a clause does not recognise the principle of food safety, which means that the quality of foodstuffs must be guaranteed in order to reduce the risk to the consumer-buyer. Mr Minister, in what capacity does the government, in particular the Fin Shop, act as a salesman in the legal field? What liability rules apply in this respect? Can you confirm that such a clause is a prohibited erosion of the obligations of the seller?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u108	Mr. Chairman, Minister, my question is on the same subject. I am going to be quick, since you have already answered my colleague, the mayor of Gembloux, on Thursday in plenary session. We have all been challenged by this incident, which has put the lives of people at risk and raises the question of quality control of the goods sold in the Fin Shops and the responsibilities of the FPS Finances in this regard. I wanted to take stock of the incident itself. I don't know if you have any up-to-date information. Minister, have any products been removed from the sale by the FPS Finances? I thought I heard it was. Do you have regular complaints about the quality of products sold in the Fin Shops? Above all, what about the quality control of the products offered in the Fin Shops? Will additional measures be taken? What about the Belgian State's responsibility for the products sold and the consequences of their use or consumption? In this case, is the Belgian State's responsibility involved in the matter of wine with amphetamines at the Fin Shop de Gembloux?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u109	Mrs Wouters, Mr Gilkinet, my answer will be in part similar to that given to Mr Dispa last Thursday. But there are certainly new elements. New elements will certainly be added. According to the Law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budgets of the Federal State's accounting system, Federal governments are obliged to sell their declassified movable property through the Fin Shop. Fin Shop is also responsible for the sale of confiscated or confiscated goods, in application of the Law of 26 March 2003. In the case of seized, confiscated or declassified property, the Fin Shops implements the decision of the originator who gives it to them. It is not up to them to control the quality of it. If the goods cannot be sold, for example because they are counterfeit or because they are illicit products, they are destroyed. In the case of goods seized by customs - in most cases, they are large lots - they are then subjected to sampling control. In the case of abandoned goods, and in particular bpost packages, quality control of products is mainly visual. The objective is to verify that the property is intact and/or not counterfeit. Recent evidence shows that this method is insufficient to analyse this category of products. The bottle in question was part of a batch of two bottles from bpost, only one of which - fortunately! - was bought. My administration has decided to temporarily suspend any sale of alcohol. My services are also examining the possibility of no longer offering certain products for sale, with the aim of taking maximum precautions. They will also explore the possibility of taking additional measures. As far as liability rules are concerned, the general rules on liability with regard to the action of the public authorities apply. It is generally accepted that parties may change their common liability by so-called exoneration or liberation clauses. Since the legal relationship between the citizen and the public authorities in this case is of a contractual nature, namely a purchase contract, liberation clauses are, in principle, regarded as lawful and admissible by the prevailing case law and doctrine of law. Others base the distinction between permissible and unacceptable liberation clauses on the observation that citizens make compulsory use of some public services, while they can rely on the others optionally. In the case of a free purchase in a Fin Shop, the citizen is in the latter case and a liberation clause is considered admissible. The endorsed liberation clause should also be seen as a warning to the buyer that the quality and use of the goods offered for sale cannot be guaranteed or guaranteed. This fact also plays an essential role, which is taken into account when setting prices in the present cases. The goods the Fin Shop sells are without any guarantee. The terms of sale are available in every Fin Shop and on the website of Fin Shop. They're repeated in a public sale. The quality of the goods sold is therefore not guaranteed, but applicants have been explicitly informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is dangerous to sell foodstuffs when one cannot be sure of the quality, which must be controlled. Goods that come through bpost can only be inspected visually. So it would be a good thing for the government to keep its hands off that. It is better to destroy these goods rather than sell them, because the food safety and safety of our citizens must be a priority. They are more important than being able to sell a number of bottles of wine that have been left somewhere at bpost. Under the general conditions of sale, the government should be able to guarantee at least the essential characteristics, because in this way you simply tell the citizen that it is quite possible for him to buy a cat in a bag. This too is very dangerous in the context of food safety. I saw drilling on that website, too, and so on. There is no guarantee of safety. For example, when one uses a drill that one has purchased there, it seems that one is not insured either. The safety of goods purchased there is therefore not guaranteed. I think that goes a long way. I see that as a hollowing out of the seller's obligation. This can't be happening. You say that the customer has been informed of this, but our citizens expect everything to be all right, especially if they buy something from the government. I think that the whole story needs to be looked at in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u111	Minister, thank you for your answer. I consider that the incident must lead to adjustments. As you said, the visual control of certain consumer goods is obviously not sufficient. A distinction must be made between the lots whose provenance is known and the individual bottles which would not have been claimed at bpost. In any case, for the Fin Shops, the question arises of the seller's liability. In the case of certain goods, the simple irresponsibility clause is probably insufficient in the case of the Belgian State. I am confident that the situation will be assessed and adjusted. Above all, I hope that the consumers of this wine with amphetamines will get away with it without negative and irreversible consequences for their health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u112	Mr President, Minister, last spring the federal government voted in favour of the introduction of a share of Belfius' capital on the stock exchange. At the time, I had expressed to you all my scepticism – I maintain it – in relation to this hypothesis, especially in view of Dexia's painful precedent, but also of the interest of the Belgian State to maintain a 100% public bank, concerned about the financing of the real economy and developing another banking model. In presenting the quarterly results, the CEO of Belfius clarified the scenario envisaged by the bank, it seems, with the agreement of the government, namely the disposal of 30% of the capital in May-June 2018. According to Mr Raisière, this deadline should allow business banks to probe the market and produce the issue prospectus. In view of the importance of this dossier for the Belgian economy and the federal government's finances, I would like to obtain some clarification on the current process. Minister, what timetable has the government and the management of the bank set for this partial stock market entry in Belfius? Among the business banks, which global coordinator was appointed? Which business banks are involved? Under what procedure have these designations been made? What will be the cost of these benefits? How long do these business banks have to report the results of their market "tests"? When would the prospectus be issued? What prior studies have been or will be commissioned, in particular on the impact of a bank's stock exchange presence on its operation, risk-taking and long-term vision? It is understood that we are not in principle in favour of this scenario.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u113	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, with regard to the timetable, the government has asked Belfius this summer to start preparing a stock exchange. A stock exchange requires long preparation (due diligence, prospectus writing, regulatory approvals, etc.).). Such preparation usually takes several months, so a stock exchange, if any, could not take place in 2017. As soon as the necessary and adequate preparations and procedures have been put in place, the government will consult with its financial advisors to determine the market window that will be most appropriate for the state, and of course for Belfius. It is clear that the government will continue to evaluate the market during this time and reserves the possibility of changing, delaying or stopping the schedule. As regards the coordinator, Nomura, Clairfield and Freshfields have recently been designated as financial and legal advice to assist the SFPI and the Belgian State in the process. The State will select global coordinators in the near future. The latter has not yet been achieved but is in full preparation. It will be achieved through one or more competitive processes. Once the selection is made, it will be made public. The question of test results is very premature. The government does not want to test investors until the preparations for the stock exchange are in a final stage. We will of course respect the advertising constraints to which the government will be subjected, particularly in the context of international placement. For example, the prospectus could only be released after approval by the FSMA, which will take place immediately after the launch of the stock exchange. Finally, prior to the summer, the government requested an analysis of BAML, KPMG and Eubelius, particularly on all these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u114	Mr Minister, with regard to your last answer, I have asked the chairman of the committee that a debate be held in this Finance Committee on various subjects, including the issue of the entry on the stock exchange of Belfius, a public bank of 100 %. In my view, these studies you have just cited should be communicated to Parliament. We should have the opportunity to comment on them, or even to criticize them, but in any case to be informed of them. I note that there is an adjustable theoretical calendar, which can be stopped at any time. I will therefore express the hope that at some point it will be stopped and that a change of course will be decided in spite of the costs and operations already committed, as part of the preparation of a possible market entry. Other scenarios are more desirable than the Belfius stock market. Having in the banking landscape a public bank that works differently can also have a positive impact on the whole banking sector, but also on our economy. The government is wrong in this short-term choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u115	Minister, this is not always about the economic hard world of finance. Sometimes it's also about the human aspects of it. This is most reflected in the difference between the semi-automated approach of Finance in supervising the correct payment of taxes and the empathetic, human story in the event of a death. If someone who was legally living or married dies, the surviving partner of course still has to fill out the tax bill, the couple's joint tax bill. Shortly after death, a reminder of this is often produced in the typical official language. At that time, however, the person concerned is going through a painful mourning period, so it is not empathetic to harass him or her at that time with a very strictly formalized letter on the tax return. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. How much time is there between the declaration of a death and the inclusion in the financial systems? To what extent is that linked to the KSZ and other systems? In what way is a possible death taken into account when sending reminder letters and e-mails from the tax authorities? To what extent do we deal with this more empatheticly than an automated computer system? In the meantime, where do you stand with the initiative to automatically send a letter to the next of kin to explain the course of handling the declaration? It's almost the end of 2017. Tax-on-web has been around for a long time and is a very useful tool, for something as complex as taxes. We will never be able to make it nice, but as easy as possible. In the event of death among spouses or cohabitants, the last joint tax return must be submitted on paper, without the electronic help of Tax-on-web. Are there any plans to make this report possible electronically? What technical barriers are there to putting the above questions into practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u116	Mr Dedecker, as regards your first question, I can tell you that it takes six days on average, from the date of registration of the death at the municipality, before the information reaches the tax office. As for your second question, I can tell you that deceased persons are automatically removed from the list of recipients for the receipt of a reminder letter. I shall then come to your third question. The possibility you suggest is still being analysed. The intention is also to remove the concerns of the heirs. The systematic sending of letters, once the death is known to us, could be counterproductive and stressful. The declarations sent contain the details of the contact centre and of our services to answer the questions that the citizen might ask. I'll answer questions four and five together. Contrary to what you mention at the beginning of your question, the next of kin effectively have the possibility to submit the deceased's declaration via Tax-on-web via the link "the tax return for a deceased person." However, an exception applies to the declaration relating to the income of the year N-1 of the married or legally resident persons, if the death falls in the first months of year N. Indeed, when both partners are alive on 1 January of the tax year, the tax entity is not separate because the tax assessment must remain common. In this case, the income of the deceased person must be validated by his identity card and the PIN code, although this identity card has been returned to the municipality to be deactivated. At present, the legal and technical analysis is in full swing which allows the validation of the declaration only with the electronic signature of the surviving partner or the mandator.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The fact that there are six days between registering with the municipality and passing that information on to Finance naturally causes painful situations. A lot of people die every day. In the first six days people are in mourning. If they receive a warning, that is anything but nice. I don't know what the six-day delay is. I wonder how that process could be accelerated. We live in a digitized society. The registration in the municipality and the announcement at Finance should be a matter of minutes, I guess. I may be demanding in that, but that certainly seems something to me to investigate further. I will ask detailed questions later to find out which systems and processes cause the delay and which can be deleted and or accelerated. Apparently there is also a technical problem with electronic reporting. I hope this will be resolved soon. It would be logical for a system to enter into force at the time of reporting the partner's death into the municipality, which would also make it possible to complete such an electronic declaration without a fuss. That would be obvious. I am eagerly looking forward to the follow-up to the actions you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u118	Minister, in its September 19 edition, the newspaper L'Echo publishes the results of its calculations of the notional interest rate in the next fiscal year. According to the daily newspaper, this rate would reach 0.746 per cent in 2018, compared to 0.237 per cent in 2017. The rate for SMEs would increase from 0.737 % to 1.246 %. As businesses have the ability to deduct larger amounts, the government will potentially see its corporate tax revenues reach a lower level than if current rates were maintained. In other words, tax expenditures related to notional interest will increase. Minister, do you confirm the proposed increase in the interest rates of the Echo? Do the figures calculated by your administration correspond to those shown in the daily newspaper? Can you tell me whether the impact of this increase on the public treasury has already been estimated? If so, what amount does this estimate result in? Will this tax loss be compensated? Which one? When will you propose an amendment to the law, in order to reserve the possibility of deduction for new equity?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u119	Mr Gilkinet, the figures calculated by the administration concerning the rates applicable to the venture capital deduction are indeed identical to those you read in L'Echo, i.e. 0.746 % or 1.246 % for small companies. For the corporate tax reform, the basis of the venture capital deduction has been revised so that only new capital is included in this base. The combined impact of the increase in the rates of this deduction with the reduction of this base has been calculated in the broader context of the impact of the reform. My administration is preparing texts of this reform, which, for some details, is being finalized. We hope to be able to discuss this in the government in the coming weeks, and we will propose a text to the House as soon as the Council of State has given its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u120	Minister, I thank you for your answer and am curious to see the next one. I am particularly curious to see how your budget tables will translate the neutrality of the reform. It is a commitment that has been made by the government in the context of the budget conclave, but it has two lines. I think it will take more than a petition of principle and a moral commitment, but actually figures, and better figures than in previous exercises of the same type.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u121	Question No 20640 by Mr Dallemagne is withdrawn. Question No 20668 by Mr Delannois is postponed. Question No 20671 by Mr Vanvelthoven is postponed. Question No 20727 by Mr Piedboeuf is postponed. Question No 20733 by Mrs Smaers is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u122	Minister, I asked you the question in writing on August 10 and, in the absence of an answer, I allowed myself to turn my written question into an oral question. On 7 September 2011, one of your predecessors, with whom I have often debated, Mr Reynders, confirmed to the newspaper La Libre Belgique that Libyan assets amounting to EUR 14 billion had been frozen in Belgium, pursuant to a resolution of the UN Security Council Sanctions Committee. These funds were housed in various banks such as Euroclear, KBC, ING and BNP Paribas. According to Mr Reynders at the time, it was a matter of releasing these funds as quickly as possible for the new Libyan power, but also of repaying Belgian companies that had obtained contracts in Gaddafi's Libya and had not yet been paid. Minister, can you tell me what has happened since 2011 to these frozen Libyan funds? Are they still frozen at this time? Have they been released for the benefit of the Libyan State? How high? Did they allow Belgian companies to be repaid? Which ones? For what amount? When? What about the interest generated by these large funds? Have they also been frozen? Have they been used to repay Belgian companies? Were they returned to the owners of the frozen funds? How? What are the legal rules in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u123	Mr Gilkinet, Council Regulation (EU) No 204/2011 of 2 March 2011 concerning restrictive measures taken in view of the situation in Libya imposed a freeze on the assets of persons and entities. In accordance with various other regulations amending the above-mentioned Regulation, other entities, including the Lybia Central Bank and the Lybian Arab Foreign Bank, have been delisted. Their funds were immediately released. The amended Regulation No 204/2011 was intended to freeze the funds of 37 persons and 16 entities, and provided that two entities, the Libyan Investment Authority and the Libya Africa Investment Portfolio, would be removed from the freeze list, but that their funds frozen outside Libya on 16 September 2011 would remain frozen. This amended Regulation was repealed and replaced by Council Regulation (EU) No 2016/44 of 18 January 2016. Article 18(2) of that Regulation provides that information relating to frozen accounts and their amounts may not be disclosed. The amounts of frozen funds owned by the Libyan State were communicated to Libya. Some companies were repaid on a Libyan initiative without any request for the freezing of funds on its part. As a result, no authorization has been issued and it is impossible to have an accurate idea of the sums that have been repaid or of the actors involved in these transactions. Finally, frozen funds must be increased by their interest except in respect of the entities referred to in Article 5(4) of Regulation 2016/44, namely the Libyan Investment Authority and the Libya Africa Investment Portfolio. A European interpretation of the RELEX Group has specified in this respect that the interests of the frozen accounts of these entities as of 16 September 2011 may be released.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic731x.u124	Minister, thank you for your answers to this question that I tabled in writing. Time could be set aside for the Finance Committee if the answers were to arrive more quickly! It's a wink at the firm, but I know a lot of questions are being asked.
