ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u2	Mr Prime Minister, yesterday I asked what the Belgian Government was voting on Saudi Arabia's candidacy for the UN Women's Commission. That is the body that defends women's rights worldwide. Didier Reynders and Alexander De Croo defended Saudi Arabia's seat on that committee. However, women are systematically discriminated against in Saudi Arabia. Without the permission of their male guardian, they may not study, travel, work or marry. Women must not drive, and if they are raped, they risk being stoned instead of protected. Alexander De Croo and Didier Reynders defend the indefenable. This UN Commission must set an example and now it will no longer be able to do so. It is a blow to the face of all those who defend women's rights, it is a blow to the face of those who defend women's rights in their own countries, worldwide and certainly in Saudi Arabia itself. Here, Mr Prime Minister, shame and deep disappointment about our country's attitude fit only shame. Colleagues of Open Vld, is that our Western superiority? Throwing women's rights and principles overboard for economic interests and oil dollars? I would therefore like to ask, Prime Minister, whether you support the position of your Deputy Prime Ministers Didier Reynders and Alexander De Croo and whether you are defending Saudi Arabia's seat on the UN Women's Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u3	Prime Minister, Saudi Arabia is an islam country where women can really do nothing without the permission of a man, where women are not even allowed to drive or even enter the streets without covering their hair and their entire body. The only thing women are allowed to do on the streets without any problem is to be stoned or beheaded by Sharia executioners. This country, with the support of Belgium, will now shape women's rights for the UN? Isn't that crazy, Prime Minister? I wonder how Saudi Arabia will do that in that council, defending women's rights. With Walloon weapons, I'm sure. This, Prime Minister, is the same as having a cat determine the rights of the mouse. I wonder what the next thing is: to delegate Dutroux to the Children's Rights Commission? Two Deputy Prime Ministers of this government support that crazy decision: Liberal Deputy Prime Minister De Croo and Deputy Prime Minister Reynders. So much for Mrs Rutten's idea of a superior society with freedom as the highest good. That freedom is sold out for petrodollars. Saudi Arabia exploits its oil wealth to blackmail the whole world and propagate violent wahabism. They're not afraid to shave, but all the women in the world are. I have only one question for you, Prime Minister. Is this really a government position and do you really share the position of your Deputy Prime Ministers? Can it really be the government's view that it is a good thing that Saudi Arabia, where camels are treated better than women, has been elected to the UN Women's Council? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u4	Prime Minister, Saudi Arabia was indeed elected to the Commission on Women's Rights. Unfortunately, when we interviewed Minister Reynders yesterday, we felt that Belgium had supported this candidacy and election. The question we asked him yesterday was simple: what was Belgium's vote? And the answer that was given to us was simply revolting, Prime Minister. First of all because Mr Reynders used an incredible language of wood to try to justify by circumvolutions why Belgium had cast a vote, without daring to say that this vote was in favour of Saudi Arabia. Secondly, because he in no way assumed his responsibilities, claiming that he was not aware of the vote. If that is the case, it is all the more revolting. Despite these circumvolutions, we understood that Mr. Reynders and our diplomacy had supported this application. Given the situation and status of women in that country, we are very dissatisfied with that decision. My group and I are in favour of multilateralism and dialogue. But there are limits, and neither can we fundamentally challenge our values. We must keep in touch with these democratic values that are ours. Saying yes to Saudi Arabia's appointment to a Commission for Women's Rights, in a country where women have no rights, is simply a shame, but also a revolting scandal! Prime Minister, has Belgium voted, yes or no, for this appointment? And what is your position on this designation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, my colleagues have rightly recalled everything that is revolting in Saudi Arabia about the status of women. What is even more revolting is the cowardice you show in justifying a vote by Belgium in the United Nations. When, then, will the states that want to be free and that are free bring about the revolt of consciences in situations such as that of women in Saudi Arabia and in other countries in that region? Indeed, that is what this is all about. The ideal of the United Nations is not only to defend multiculturalism at all times. That does not mean anything if the ideals of the UN Charters are not carried by the states that must preserve their essentials. Yesterday, the Belgian State failed to preserve what founded the United Nations project by lowering itself to what? To tell us cowardly today that, in any case, there was only one candidate State and that, moreover, it was a secret vote. What lowering of consciences have you come to for not having been the government to take the lead, in Europe, of those who could have opposed this election? Maybe it's time to recognize the mistake that was made. If that were the case, we could talk about the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, the various organs of the United Nations bring together all the countries of the world, with a few exceptions. With some, we have political affinities, affinities in terms of values concerning human rights, universality and the protection of human rights. With others, very unfortunately, dialogue is more complex, if not sometimes extremely difficult. As the Foreign Minister, in the Committee on External Relations and in which I participated yesterday, said, Belgium does not welcome the election of Saudi Arabia to the UN Committee on the Status of Women. We have already encountered this type of problem a few years ago when Libya became a member of the Commission on Human Rights. We were then in exactly the same situation. It should be noted that each group of countries submits one or more nominations and that normally there is no vote. There, a vote was taken. Why? You must know that, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, the United States asked for it. Secondly, some countries are trying to discredit the UN – as this vote unfortunately offered the demonstration. However, as liberals, we are extremely committed to defending the political values and principles contained in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights: freedom of expression, worship, assembly; gender equality; prohibition of torture and the death penalty; and respect for privacy. As we know for having spoken about it recently in this same House, the Liberals have come together and we have all spoken in the same direction. As soon as yesterday, I spoke about the young Saudi woman Dina Ali, who was sent back to her country as she was fleeing him because of a forced marriage. So, Prime Minister, how will we seize the opportunity to compel Saudi Arabia, through multilateral and bilateral meetings, to listen to many of our political messages? Similarly, and this is an extremely important point, how can we insist on the universal nature of rights, without religious or cultural colouration? We will therefore witness an essential confrontation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u7	Prime Minister, we have learned with great astonishment the election of Saudi Arabia to the UN Commission on Women's Rights. It appears – but perhaps you will overturn it – that our country has voted for this candidature. This is rather incredible, especially since the theme, particularly interesting and fundamental, of this Commission is the economic empowerment of women in a changing world of work. This is obviously more than worrying when we see that in terms of empowerment, Saudi women cannot drive or work without the permission of their male guardian, nor can they travel without a permit. In this context, we are witnessing the exercise of dual diplomacy. On the one hand, we're gonna punch on the table. We heard that at Open Vld. Mrs. Rutten spoke harsh language three weeks ago. She said that we should stop our diplomatic contacts with Saudi Arabia. Well, it seems to be more than a stop at Open Vld. There are clearly two morals to be seen. If it's about petrodollars...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u8	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u9	Let Mr Hedebouw speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u10	The double standards are definitely there. The principles fly in the pocket together with the petrodollars. So my questions are very simple, even if the assembly is very nervous, and I understand it. I'd be uncomfortable, too, instead of the Vld. Prime Minister, first of all, how did Belgium vote? We should know that. We need to know that. Mr. Reynders said that he was not aware and that diplomacy had had to take the initiative. Can you confirm that he was not aware and that, in a few weeks, a diplomat will not come and say, "Yes, if I had kept my Foreign Minister informed"? Thirdly, are you covering this vote for the whole government? Fourthly – and this is not a small question – has our diplomacy had any pressure or impulse on the part of American diplomacy to vote in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u11	Prime Minister, I am a woman and I am free to make my own choices, and I am happy because I live in a country where that is possible. What if I was a woman who lived in Saudi Arabia? I'd have to ask a man if I could open a bank account. I should ask a man to let me rent an apartment. I should ask a man if I can get married or divorced. I should ask a man if I get a passport or not. That is the situation today for women in Saudi Arabia. We have noted that there has been a vote, Prime Minister, in which our country, Belgium, has voted in favour and has ensured that Saudi Arabia has a seat on the UN Commission. I do not understand that, Prime Minister, because we defend the human rights we defend in our country throughout the world. My questions are therefore simple. What did our country do? What was our position? What message did we send out? If we have voted as a country, is that an agreement in the government? I hear some parties from the majority say that they distance themselves from this and that this committee will have no value to them from now on. All this is easy to say and that does not help the women who are oppressed. So what did our country do? I sincerely hope, Prime Minister, that your answer is that we have also defended the human rights we defend in our country. If not, I'd like to hear your motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u12	Prime Minister, yesterday it became clear in the committee that our country probably voted for Saudi Arabia's accession to the UN Commission on Women's Rights. The US has apparently steered and encouraged that vote, but the country of Saudi Arabia as a protector of women's rights? Or perhaps I should say rather: Saudi Arabia as a patron of women's rights? Our group has also been shocked by this. I have three very simple questions. Firstly, did we vote in favour of accession? I believe that Parliament is entitled to that information. My second, not insignificant question is whether the ten EU countries with the right to vote in ECOSOC voted as one block as usual? Has that been the case in that situation? My third question concerns the future. Will the government now review candidate countries for any international institutions in advance on the basis of objective parameters drawn up by international organisations? Let's be clear. I do not think that any woman in our hemisphere can be judged in this way, and I hope that no man can agree that girls and women in countries such as Saudi Arabia should be judged in this way and that such a country will still decide on our rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u13	Prime Minister, I came here this morning from Leuven by car. Luckily, I don't live in Saudi Arabia, or else whips were my share now. In Saudi Arabia, women cannot perform a job, receive training or undergo medical procedures without the permission or guidance of a man. That is the sad fate of women in Saudi Arabia. Prime Minister, I don't know about you, but if my house is on fire, I won't ask a pyromaniac how to put it out. It is clear that membership of Saudi Arabia of the UN Committee on Women's Status is a blow to the face of women worldwide. What is equally worrying is that the United States has called for a secret ballot. It is a public secret that the United States no longer agrees with the views of the UN Committee on Women's Status on Sexual and Reproductive Rights. We must not rule out the fact that President Trump called for that vote to implement his conservative agenda. Mr Prime Minister, it is very good that the Belgian federal government is very much profiling the equality of men and women. Minister De Croo goes around the world with his campaign "She Decides" and he is very successful. We think this is a very good thing, but it is difficult to reconcile this profiling with Belgium's vote in favour of Saudi Arabia in that committee. For me there is no free route for business as usual. In view of the strong Belgian profiling of equal rights for women, we need to show even more sharpness, to show conviction in the debate in the UN Committee on Women's Status and to make adoption-and-shaming. What was Belgium's voting position? What will be our position in the future in the UN Committee on Women's Status? This committee has done a wonderful job in the past. That must not be undone. Will you show a little more focus in diplomatic and economic relations with countries that violate women's rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very clear. If Belgium has voted yes to Saudi Arabia's membership of the Women's Rights Council, that is a false signal and that has been a very wrong choice. Who knows me, who knows my struggle, who knows the values of a liberal party, who knows that we cannot agree with that. We must think about this in the future. Such votes should at least be passed on in the government, but I think it would be good to speak through them here in Parliament too. This is so fundamental. In this way we could also explain to diplomacy that there may be a diplomatic logic, but that there is also a political logic, a logic of fundamental rights for women and men, of fundamental human rights, which are universal. I hear many different voices in the debate today. I also hear a certain form of hypocrisy, but I will be clear. If equality between men and women is a fundamental and universal value, it always applies, everywhere, at any time, in every country and therefore also in multilateral institutions, such as the United Nations. Prime Minister, I just have one question. Can you clarify the position of Belgium? Can you state that this was just wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, Belgium therefore voted positively for Saudi Arabia's entry into the UN Commission on the Status of Women, even though it had the opportunity to vote against it, as other States did. As a woman, this attitude of my country shames me and, as women, I hope that all of you here are also ashamed of your country's attitude. Shame when we know how Saudi Arabia treats women and keeps them under the control of men. Shame when we know that Saudi Arabia stons women when they have failed. Shame when we know how much Saudi Arabia simply excludes them from societal life, from political life. And in the face of this vote, yesterday's explanations by Minister Reynders are, for me but also for many women, completely inaudible. Of course, multilateral diplomacy must be pursued and this implies dialogue with those who do not have the same values as we do to change them. Belgium must of course continue to work and promote multilateralism and the role of the United Nations, all the more so at a time when the Trump administration is calling them into question. But not at any price! Not at the cost of a vote that puts at the heart of the United Nations machinery for the defence of women's rights one of the most backward countries in this field. It's not realpolitik anymore. No, it is the very negation of diplomacy and diplomatic policy. It is also the denial of values that are fundamental. Prime Minister, is the position taken with this vote in the UN the position of your government? If that were to be done again, would you favour the entry of Saudi Arabia into the core of the United Nations women's rights system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall first mention the facts as they were reported to me before responding, as precisely as possible to the inquiries that have rightly been addressed to me. First the facts. Indeed, in multilateral fora, designations and votes take place very regularly. Most of the time, as in the United Nations, this happens without a voting procedure in the strict sense, through the clean slate procedure which intervenes when there is only one job to be filled and only one candidate to run for it. This is a very common practice in international organizations. With regard to the election called into question here, in an unusual way, particularly since a new administration had just been established in the United States, a request had been made for a vote to take place. We have been informed of this. There were only a few hours between the time the Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs was informed of this and the time when the reply was to be communicated. Thus, a vote was taken by our diplomats on behalf of Belgium. I regret that vote. [[Applause]] - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There is no ambiguity in this case. As far as women's rights are concerned, of course, I suppose, on all the benches of this House, we must be determined to redouble our efforts, to promote women's rights and universal values, human rights. Even more certainly after a situation like this. It was Belgium, a few weeks ago, when the United States withdrew support for She Decides, which decided to mobilize stronger resources for the promotion of women's rights. I understand that in the democratic game, we are tempted to seek controversy. My answers are clear. A vote was taken. I'm not saying the position is secret. I regret that vote. We will have the consequences for the future and I have given instructions so that a political assessment can be made at the highest level so that it does not happen again. In short, we are fully committed to promoting universal values and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, some people have the illusion, such as Alexander De Croo, that the election of Saudi Arabia is a good thing because the dialogue will then be possible. I reject that, because a dialogue is not conducted through a United Nations Women's Commission. That committee should write recommendations to other countries. Why does Saudi Arabia even want to be there? Is that to learn about women's rights? No, it's to shut down the operation of that committee. Women's rights will therefore be the victims worldwide. It is very sad to see that our government, our diplomacy, has contributed to this. There is also a huge problem for our diplomacy. If a decision is to be taken quickly on how to vote on Saudi Arabia, it seems to be embedded in the policy of this government to support Saudi Arabia and to continue to regard it as an ally. That's a huge problem. Where is the reflex to be critical of the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia? If you have two hours to decide on voting behaviour, the logical vote should be a no. The problem, however, lies with you, with the government. There's no compass. This government has a habit of dealing with Saudi Arabia with velvet gloves. Next week, a Green and Ecolo resolution will be on the table in Parliament to fundamentally review our relations with Saudi Arabia. Take advantage of that for once. If we approve of this resolution, we will be able to avoid calamities such as these in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u18	Prime Minister, unlike your Liberal Deputy Prime Minister, you do regret the vote on Saudi Arabia. In fact, you say that we should have voted no. [[We should have...]] Unfortunately, that is a little indicative of your policy. It's a "we should have" policy. We should have had a budget balance in 2018. For the Flemish parties that is: we should have worked on the Community requirements, as we promised the Flemish electorate. We should have done this, it would have been an appropriate electoral slogan for your party, Mrs. Bellens. Of course, they don't buy much for that. You did not vote no. You voted yes. This yes vote has lost your last credibility in the fight against Islam terror, in which Saudi Arabia plays an important role. You have lost your last credibility in matters such as the Grand Mosque in Brussels. You're not gonna solve those problems with a "we should have" policy, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u19	Mr. President, Prime Minister, your answers are insufficient. You have regrets. I want to say, "Okay! Still good!" Honestly, such a vote is a scandal. It is, as has been said, a slap for women's rights. You had the opportunity to make a strong gesture. Unfortunately, Belgium has been to the absent subscribers. Women's rights were simply trampled on by this vote. I'm not proud of my Belgium. This vote has dishonored our country on the international stage. The last point I want to put on the table is that it raises the question of the responsibility and possible resignation of Minister Reynders, who dared to lie to us yesterday in committee by telling us that he was not aware of the vote that was going to take place in this Commission. It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u20	Prime Minister, in your reply, you said that the information had been received by the Department of Foreign Affairs before the vote. I read Mr Reynders' full report in committee: "Ik was niet op de hoogte van de vraag om een steming". That's what he said! Of two things one: either his cabinet and his administration were unable to organize themselves to report important information to him and these are serious failures, failures and a dysfunction at the top of the state on an essential political choice, or he received the information and he did not pay attention to it or, more precisely, he allowed it to be done by sheltering himself behind the diplomats. I do not know if we will have to ask for a new committee of inquiry, but it is time for all this to be clarified, Prime Minister! We cannot accept only regrets, there is now time for responsibilities that is open!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u21	Prime Minister, in fact, through the eleven inquiries that took place, we expected a clear, clear and precise answer. This reply on your part came when you said, "I regret this vote." For me, things are quite clear. I want to thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u22	That's a strong statement!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u23	It's a scandal! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u24	Prime Minister, whenever there is something wrong, a lamp player is responsible for what has happened wrong. The name of a diplomat will soon be thrown into pasture and he will be accused of having made a mistake. It's always the same thing. You did not mention the Minister of Foreign Affairs in your answer. However, he played a role in this case. We asked if he knew. You said he knew a few hours before. This is serious, ladies and gentlemen! This means that, politically, he was actually aware of that vote. Then you were asked if you condemned this vote. Yesterday, Mr Reynders replied in committee: "I fully respect the choices made by diplomats." Today, Prime Minister, you say that your Foreign Minister is completely wrong. I think we need to have a debate on the responsibilities of this foreign minister, who is no longer even covered by this government, because he makes diplomatic mistakes on things as essential as women's rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u25	Prime Minister, I am disappointed by your answer. You say you regret the decision. Yesterday, the Minister in committee said that he was not aware that there would be a vote. You state here that the government only had two hours to make a decision. Prime Minister, how many hours do you need to know that women in Saudi Arabia are being oppressed? Moreover, they are not only oppressed, they are stoned and beaten. So how many hours do you need to know that you are not defending such practices? I have only one second to know that I will never defend such oppression of women's rights. Our country, Belgium, now regrets this decision a little. Well, Prime Minister, if you truly regret them, you would now state that Belgium is asking for a re-vote and takes the clear view that it will never or never approve such situations. I am therefore very disappointed in your answer and the women in general will be even more disappointed, because they will be the victims of this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, you said that you regretted the vote. Well, the people, some Members of Parliament, not to say all of them, our group and, above all, many women in the world, also regret this vote. In my second question, if I have listened carefully, you did not reply. Is there a vote in one block? I would like to come back to that, because it is customary for this to happen at the UN. This happens in 97% of cases. Today is not the first time that, when the EU countries vote in block, we are actually obliged to bring down our values and standards because of this equivalence. This is a very unfortunate case. I have two comments for you. Firstly, it is a bit naive to think that there would be no vote and that we should not be prepared for that. Secondly, in this house there is the unwritten rule that the vote on ethical matters is open by conscience. Perhaps that is an inspiration for Europe to do the same in the UN, so that we do not have to vote in a particular direction there either. Our group regrets this vote. Women in Saudi Arabia live de facto under an apartheid regime. And not only there, but also in a number of other countries, which are members. We are very much concerned about what women's rights this committee is still talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, it is clear that we have been caught in speed. Your grief is therefore justified, because a dog in Belgium has more rights than a woman in Saudi Arabia. That is why I would like to give you some advice for the future. Firstly, make women's rights a priority, not only in development cooperation but also in diplomatic and trade relations. Secondly, do not throw the child away with the bath water and take firm positions in the Committee on Women's Status. After all, it is clear that countries such as the United States, Saudi Arabia, Iran and so on want to undermine our achievements. We must not allow that to happen. Thirdly, no selective indignation. We must show solidarity with women in Belgium, but also globally. Therefore, dare to review our relations with countries that violate women's rights on such a scale. I am thinking of countries such as Saudi Arabia and Iran.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u28	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your very clear answer, which perhaps we all needed. I think today's most important lesson is that foreign policy is too important to leave it to diplomats alone. That is why I call for much more consultation on such fundamental positions, not only within the government, but also with Parliament. In this way, we can fully defend and convince everyone of our universal values, our universal standards. I have heard a lot here about women's rights and some statements tend towards hypocrisy, but I suggest that we look at the positive side. I can see a very great consensus. In such issues we must defend our own liberal, western standards shoulder to shoulder. We must continue to fight for equality between men and women. Finally, I would ask you to be much more careful when such votes take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u29	Prime Minister, five minutes of political courage should have been enough to choose to defend the rights of women, who in Saudi Arabia are considered to be less than nothing. Five minutes! I prefer your regrets to the embarrassing statements of Minister Reynders, who tried to justify the unjustifiable. But I would have preferred Belgium to vote against it. Even better, I would have preferred Belgium to take the initiative of mobilising other European countries to reject the unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, we unanimously voted on a motion for a resolution by my colleague, Mr Georges Dallemagne, for Belgium to take a position on the fundamental rights violated in Saudi Arabia. You all voted. Since then, nothing has moved. Nothing of the content of this resolution has been put into practice. I invite you, Prime Minister, to look at this again. The House gave you a strong signal. This strong signal, you can catch it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u30	Prime Minister, on your initiative, the federal government launched a major national investment pact last March. With a budget of more than 30 billion euros. Excuse me for a minute. We must go back a long way to find such an ambitious project for our country. A country that does not invest in the future is a country that is falling back. For our group, this long-term pact is therefore essential and even crucial for a future, as sustainable public investment is essential for the well-being of our citizens and for the vitality of our economy. The Government's work must clearly be part of our fiscal trajectory and must link consolidation and investment. As such, negotiations with European bodies must of course continue in order to achieve balanced solutions for the future, naturally in compliance with European rules, ensuring that they are harmonised but also modernised. Finally, such an ambitious project requires a federative approach. Having associated the federated entities from the outset is a positive signal. You discussed yesterday, Mr Prime Minister, the follow-up to this pact with representatives of the regional authorities on the occasion of the Conciliation Committee. Prime Minister, could you inform us of the progress of this investment pact? Are the federated entities part of this federative but also ambitious dynamic? Can you give us an overview of yesterday's concertation committee? Could there be a common fiscal trajectory between the federal state and the regions? Finally, what about the contacts with the European bodies with a view to the report to be submitted by the end of this month?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had an important meeting of the Conciliation Committee with two essential points on the agenda. First, the Stability Pact, on which we will try, in the next few hours, to settle the final arbitrations between the federal government and the federated entities in order to agree on the documents to be sent on the basis of the reports of the Supreme Council of Finance, where the federated entities are now represented, which is a good thing. Secondly, we believe that the work on structural consolidation of public finances must be continued together, because it is the best guarantee to be able to implement a sustainable strategy for investment. On this subject, a step forward was taken yesterday, since, after the federal government set up the strategic committee a few weeks ago, it was proposed to the federated entities to join this movement. A first indicative list for a substantial amount of EUR 30 billion, for public and private investment, has been proposed to the federated entities so that they can join the process, bring proposals, projects on which we could work together. We agreed to continue the discussion in inter-federal groups in order to identify concrete projects that could be the subject of these consultations in the five key areas proposed by the federal government: mobility, the digital agenda, the energy transition, health and state authority. You see that we are determined to continue the work. Tomorrow, I will have a meeting with the representatives of the Strategic Committee to consider with them the timing in which they will establish a number of recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u32	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. For our group, it is absolutely desirable and necessary to reconcile two imperatives: on the one hand, to continue the sustainable consolidation of our public finances by observing and respecting the fiscal path, while of course continuing discussions with the European bodies to modernise and harmonise the rules and, on the other hand, to introduce important economic reforms and major investments that give breath and energy to our economy. We are therefore walking here on two feet: structural reforms of consolidation and a sustainable investment policy that creates employment and economic activity. Prime Minister, these choices are the right ones. We must continue to do so because we are creating jobs. We will reduce the deficit in a sustainable manner and leave a country whose economic development will finance social protections. Here we are not in ideology but in pragmatism for the revival of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the state reform has to do with prosperity and creates prosperity. Fons Leroy of the VDAB apparently understood that as well, because he advocates a seventh state reform. He says that we will never reach our target by 2020, in particular to get 75% of the workforce into work. Mr. Secretary, a halt is a decline. If we do not move quickly, the result will be that our neighbours will pass us again. Then we can cry again with the hat on. What's Fons Leroy pleading for? First of all, he called for a regionalisation of labour law. He is right, because federal labour law does not comply with the Flemish labour market. He also called for a response: if a state can ensure that more people are at work, then that state should also be able to benefit from it. I was surprised and found it strange that Mr Leroy made that plea. I know that he was very positive about the sixth state reform, because then, he said, Flanders will be able to do not only the supervision but also the control and sanctioning. I think he has understood the story very well by now, because if one does not transfer homogeneous powers, then the story does not work. There was also the reaction of Mrs Van Bockstael, head of FOREM, probably with PS signature. She already felt the mood. She says that she fully understands Mr Leroy, but one thing is clear to her: unemployment benefit must remain federal. You know this: we want a cow, preferably a Flemish cow, and that Flemish cow must give a lot of milk. Minister, the state reform must be prepared, and it will not be possible to do so by handing out hats alone. That will have to be properly prepared. A Community stand-still does not mean that nothing can be prepared. Minister, what is your response to this? Are you prepared to prepare or at least consult with Mr Leroy and the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was also surprised when I read that from Mr Fons Leroy, because in a past life as Prime Minister I worked with many fellow Members here on the sixth state reform. In the field of labour market policy, we took an important step forward. I remember when many people in Flanders, including Fons Leroy, were very positive. For me, it is very simple: we must first consume the sixth state reform, if I may say so. To apply consumers means to ensure that the powers that go to Flanders in this case, for example, are used and used as much as possible. There are a lot of powers that go to the regions, such as the active and passive availability of job seekers, taking into account the federal normative framework, which I will return to later. I also refer to the exemption from studies, traineeships and training, the PWA scheme and so on. There are therefore many powers at regional level. In order to monitor availability, there is a legislative framework at federal level, on which we have had very intensive consultations with the regions of the region, with a view to achieving it and, for the VDAB in particular, putting it into practice. I therefore assume that Fons Leroy, particularly in his capacity as head of the VDAB, must act very actively within the normative framework, which is intended to provide a framework for unemployment benefits in this country in which every region can agree. We have also discussed this. As you know, the response mechanism gives a wide range of powers to the regions to fill it out themselves. For me, this is not about preparing a seventh state reform, but about carrying out the sixth state reform as far as possible and within the limits. The further the limits are reached, the better for Flanders. Having said that, I will ask the relevant ministers to join me. It is officials who make statements, but I cannot ask a Flemish official to come to me. This would provoke a reaction from the regional minister, who would, if necessary, point out to me that I am not allowed to do so. I won't. I will ask the relevant ministers of Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia to come to me together with their respective officials and to explain this to me. I hope that at that time there will be other free stands than those to which you refer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the very clear answer, because, as I said, there is a halt. You say you will fully implement the sixth state reform, you do not need a seventh. Nevertheless, Mr Leroy says that the problem at present is the institutional framework with the non-homogeneous powers at his disposal to achieve that target of 75% by 2020. However, I am very pleased to hear that you wish to enter into consultations. That's what we need. However, that sixth state reform must be fully implemented, but it is not complete. We need to move on. We need even greater state reform. The socio-economic levers, Minister, which must be sent to the Länder. We need to ensure that each state can conduct its own policies and deliver tailor-made solutions. You know, Minister, that the Community's standstill can only jeopardize our prosperity. I hope you'll carry on with that, along with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u36	The questions are addressed to Ministers Peeters and Bacquelaine. As I understand it, they will both answer. We respect the order of entering the questions. The first speaker is Mr Spoorten.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u37	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, through RTL and today, we were able to get to know the story of Virginie and Caroline, two friends in Hainaut and both on the threshold of their retirement. Virginie has worked for forty years, most of which as a self-employed person, but she will receive a much lower pension than her friend Caroline, who has only worked for six years and was unemployed for thirty-three years. That is an incomprehensible and unjust observation, and even shocking, according to the people concerned, but unfortunately that is not an isolated fact. From a policy point of view, we must draw some conclusions from this. Firstly, it is unacceptable that our system ensures that the pension of someone who has worked for almost a lifetime is lower than the pension of someone who has almost always been unemployed. We certainly do not want to reduce the pension of the unemployed, but the equalisation of periods of unemployment and of early retirement pensions must be done at a lower level than for effective years of work. Secondly, this case proves once again that our statutory pensions are low. The government must therefore continue to use measures to increase the pensions of all people while keeping everyone's pensions affordable in the long term. A higher level of activity through longer working and activation is the best method to achieve this, together with the increase in minimum pensions, which the government has already implemented. The possibility of earning on top of the pension can also help. Finally, this incident proves once again that the government must pursue further harmonisation of pension systems for workers, self-employed persons and civil servants. The equivalence of diplomas is a step in the right direction. The increase in the minimum pension for self-employed persons was also an important step. Gentlemen, what will the government do to scale up the treated periods during early retirement and unemployment in a more correct and acceptable way? What will you do to further align pension systems for the self-employed, civil servants and employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u38	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday it was the most shared message on the social media because it concerns the people in our society: the story of two women and their pensions. Virginie has worked as a self-employed person all her life and her friend Caroline has stamped 33 years. Now they're both retiring, and what turns out? The unemployed Caroline gets more pension than Virginie, who worked all her life. That is something, ladies and gentlemen, of which a lot of people in our society are rebellious, and rightly so. Isn't it the logic itself that the one who works always has to survive more than the one who doesn't work? This should not only be the case on the pay slip, but also when it comes to the pension. Dear members of the government, we have made efforts over the past few years to do something about this. The pension of the selfemployed has been substantially increased for fifteen years. Periods of unemployment and periods treated as such have been reduced and brought to the level of minimum law. It is then about EUR 2 000 gross per month. However, if we look at these measures, we must note, ladies and gentlemen, that it has not been enough. My questions are therefore very simple. I also addressed them to both ministers. Minister Peeters, when it comes to unemployment, you know that limiting unemployment in time is the only correct answer to solve this problem. I would like to ask Minister Bacquelaine a question about the periods treated. You have made efforts in this area, as have your predecessors. Do you intend to go further in this direction, so that those who work always have more left over than those who do not work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u39	Mr President, I will be very brief. My colleague Daniel Bacquelaine is the competent minister for retirement. I understand that Mr Van Quickenborne would like to put that question to me as well. I can see why now. I can say very clearly that limiting unemployment is not in the government agreement and it will not be introduced during this period of government unless all partners agree. Let us implement the coalition agreement and make sure that the poignant example you cite gets a solution. I can assure you that no one likes to be unemployed. Anyone who is unemployed would like to get to work as quickly as possible and a policy must be pursued. We're going for it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Spooren and Mr Van Quickenborne for these questions, which allow me to reaffirm my will to strengthen the link between the work actually done and the amount of pension. Our pension system needs to reward work better. It is a question of fairness to workers who have contributed to the financing of our pension system through social contributions, deducted from their wages. It is the reason why the minimum pension of self-employed persons was brought into line with that of employees. It is also the reason why the government has increased the minimum pensions for a full career. At the moment, I am completing two reforms that also strengthen the link between effective work performance and pension. The first is the abolition of the restriction to the unity of career in favour of those who continue their professional activities after 45 years of career. All effective working years will now be included in the pension calculation. Secondly, it concerns the revision of the calculation of the equivalence of the second period of unemployment and conventional bridge pensions. This equivalence of the unemployment days in the second period and the days of conventional bridge pension will be calculated on the basis of the minimum annual duty and no longer on the basis of the last wage. Finally, I would like to add that the pension with points will also allow us to strengthen the insurance nature of our pension system. I agree with Mr Van Quickenborne and Mr Spooren: a higher pension for those who worked more, a higher pension for those who worked harder and a higher pension for those who worked longer. That is the reform I stand for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I welcome your answer, because it is something people are awake about and it simply does not feel right. The N-VA will therefore continue to work towards a clearer link between work and retirement. Anyone who works must be rewarded when he or she retires. Due to the many epochs this band has broken through a bit. In the case of treated periods with social motives, such as parental leave and palliative leave, these periods must continue to count fully, but it is unfair that this system should also apply to long-term unemployment and early retirement. I am therefore very pleased to hear that you are going to continue implementing the two initiatives, breaking the unity of career and a minimum deadline for the treated periods of unemployment and early retirement. You will have our full support in this area in the government and in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u42	Mr President, Ministers, one of the people who shared their indignation on the Internet yesterday was Mr Hendrik Bogaert. He said about that case: "That's how society dies." Balanced rights and obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hear Mr Peeter's reply, which says that unemployment is not going to be reduced in time. We now know that position of CD&V. It's a minority opinion. But when I ask what he will do, Mr Peeters does not even answer, that is the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about justice and the lack of justice week after week. These are unfair situations! Entrepreneurs who contribute to society every day and receive less pensions than the unemployed, I find that unacceptable! I'm counting on the government to do something about that. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u43	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u44	Mr Bogaert, you have just been quoted. Period. That's not a personal fact. I am applying that principle to everyone, recently for Mrs Smeyers. We're not going to make that a personal fact. If one is simply quoted, that is not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the concern expressed by the National Bank with regard to the mortgage market and its suggestion that the conditions for access to mortgage credit be reviewed more restrictively. It seems that you have taken this recommendation into consideration, since it is up to us that you are working on a draft royal decree which would include an increase in the interest rate when a household borrows an amount greater than 80% of the value of the property concerned. Perhaps you can confirm this information. Minister, you cannot be blamed for paying attention to the financial health of the banking sector and the recommendations of the National Bank. But here I would like to draw your attention to the consequences, in terms of access to property, of what you are preparing. For many young households, or people simply seeking to acquire property, these provisions will complicate, or sometimes make impossible, access to property. For example, following the introduction of the 80 % ceiling, potential buyers may be forced to bring in equity funds of the order of €65,000 for the acquisition of a house of €200,000. This amount is inaccessible to many of them, unless they benefit from family assets or personal support. This is far from being acquired by all prospective buyers. Minister, what is your analysis of the risk of creating a real estate bubble against which the National Bank warns? Do you confirm that you are preparing restrictive measures? How are you going to manage the extremely damaging consequences of these new provisions for young people and young families who want to borrow without having enough own funds that you may require from them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the task of the National Bank of Belgium is to ensure the soundness of the banking sector. It therefore made a number of recommendations, one of which was to limit the amount loaned to 80 per cent during a real estate purchase. This is not new, but the government would do well to reconsider this measure. In practice, it will make it impossible to acquire housing for certain households. Indeed, not everyone can put money aside, continue to pay rent and live decently. This request for large sums of cash is not reasonable, Minister. Not all young households have a well-to-do family behind them that can set foot in the chain. On the other hand, everyone should have the opportunity and opportunity to buy a family property to avoid always being under the yoke of the rental sector. Minister, I know you're going to answer me by talking about over-indebtedness. In my opinion, it is not this provision that will reduce it. On the other hand, it is used to protect banks. Instead of attacking the weakest, middle class, you'd better force the banking sector not to play the casino with Belgian money and not take reckless risks on the markets. You would probably avoid a new banking crisis. Minister, your enemy, it is speculative markets, not young people who aspire to become owners. According to the latest annual report of the BNB, the arrears of payments of individuals registered by the Centrale des crédits prove that the real estate debt of households is under control. Minister, can you confirm that? What answers do you intend to provide to young people who wish to start a family and thus have their own home? If you are stubborn, this measure will be anti-young and anti-middle class.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u47	Mr Dispa and Mr Delannois, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many misunderstandings in the media about the measure drawn up by the National Bank of Belgium as a macroprudential authority. After having already taken steps in 2013 and 2014 to limit the risks associated with mortgage credit, the National Bank notes that, since 2015, the credit conditions applied by the banks have not been tightened and that too many risks in terms of mortgage lending remain. In addition, credit to households continued to grow at a steady pace, i.e. about 5%. The real estate market has seen steady price increases since 2000. All this in a very flexible monetary policy context. The debt ratio of our households has recently been above the euro area average. All these observations led the European Systemic Risk Board to issue an official warning. As a result, the National Bank considered that the current measure should be strengthened. The proposal for the Bank's new macroprudential measure therefore provides for the following two components: firstly, the continuation of the current measure requiring banks to provide a larger capital buffer for their entire mortgage portfolio; and secondly, a more targeted additional measure requiring banks to apply a sufficiently prudent policy vis-à-vis the riskiest segment. The proposed measure therefore does not provide – and this is very important – for the prohibition or limitation of such borrowings, unlike what is happening in many other countries in Europe. If financial institutions were to pass on these adjusted capital requirements, the analyses show that the customer rate will not increase in a prohibitive manner. This refers to an increase in the annual interest rate for the client from 0.1% to 0.2%. This measure does not mean that banks will no longer provide loans if the credit claimed exceeds 80% of the value of the property. This is essential in order to understand what is happening. The macroprudential measure proposed by the National Bank will still be discussed within the government. Let me also stress that the macroeconomic stability of Belgium and the health of our real estate sector are in everyone's interest. In this context, the National Bank is doing its job. It must respond to Europe's warnings. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we must not forget the lessons learned from a not-so-distant past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u48	Minister, the National Bank is doing its job and no one is challenging it. You also do yours, paying attention to its concerns and recommendations. You're doing your job as Minister of Finance. However, at the government level, it would seem important to add other concerns to these considerations, including access to property. Still, the painting should not be blackened. As far as I know, we are not, for the moment, facing a real estate bubble. Moreover, the quality of mortgage credit in Belgium remains excellent. Unless mistaken, default rates are extremely low compared to those of other countries. On the other hand, you say that you make sure that there are no misunderstandings. I can assure you, however, that I have received testimony from people who will be denied credit on the grounds that the National Bank has tightened its terms. You seem to be sweetening the cautionary measure recommended by the National Bank. On the ground, banks are already implementing a much more restrictive policy. I really invite the government to pay attention to the impacts of this measure. You will complicate access to property for young people, for the middle class, for recomposed families. This will have important effects in terms of spatial planning, including urban migration. We urge that the government, beyond the health concerns of banks, be truly concerned about access to property for all. Otherwise, you might give the impression that you are more concerned with banks than with young households or families. I invite you to reconsider your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u49	Minister, like my colleague, I hear you talking about misunderstandings. Indeed, the banks suffer from the same misunderstandings, because I have other examples in my region, similar to that reported by Mr Dispa. I guess they didn't all get the same message, or worse: they want to translate the message we could give them. I have also heard that a discussion is still taking place within the government, and on this subject you may leave a door open. If there is a discussion within the government, I urge you to ensure that the interests of banks are not the primary purpose of the measures, but rather that this is the interest of the middle class and young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u50	Mr Minister, two months ago I stood here and asked the Prime Minister if the government would be prepared to remove the carcinogens from the shelves. The Prime Minister then refused and referred to your view that Belgium's approval is based on the conclusions of the European Food Safety Authority, an independent body that I underline in an independent way the words "in an independent way' evaluates "risk' and that it is unlikely that it presents a risk of cancer for humans. Last week you replied in committee to Mr Gerkens that if it was proved that the studies had been tampered with, you would reconsider your opinion. Today it has been proven that the study was manipulated. Monsanto has been lobbying for 20 years to keep the harmful effects of the poison, because that is what it is, out of studies. We now know in writing: multinationals are bribing scientists to write beneficial papers. That's an absolute disgrace. Glyphosate is used by agriculture, SNCB and private individuals. In the meantime, the Länder have decided to ban the use of their herbicides. What kind of country are we living in? How absurd the situation is! We can no longer use weed killers in the garden, but in every Brico we can buy those weed killers because the federal government does nothing. That's totally absurd. Individuals are not allowed to use the poison, farmers are, while they spray much wider and massively on the crops. Minister, I have three questions for you. Firstly, I urge you to put public health first, prominently above the economic interests of multinationals. Secondly, what is your attitude towards the European Agency and the Monsanto papers? Are you prepared to examine the independence of the EFSA studies? Thirdly, when will the federal government do what it has to do and prohibit the sale of arthropods for private and professional use in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u51	Mr Minister, after the fuss over the fake scientific research at Monsanto, Flanders, after Wallonia and Brussels, will now also do what it has to do and restrict the use of arthropods. Good news for our health, one would say. Except there's a few catchers. As Mr Dedry said, we are now in the absurd situation that private use is prohibited, but that it can still be bought, because for that the federal government, and you, is competent. Another absurdity is the fact that 90% of all sales of arthropods are used in agriculture and there it is not prohibited. However, toxicologists have been arguing for this for a long time, because banning use only in private individuals is a drop on a hot plate. Last year, I tabled a motion for a resolution to restrict the sale of Roundup and related companies as a precautionary measure, out of caution. Your majority voted away my proposal, because Europe is waiting for it. You wanted to wait for Europe, but that is exactly what it is. Europe was fooled by Monsanto. In the meantime, that has become very clear. It is about our health, it is about the health of our children, and for that the government bears a crushing responsibility. I have three very clear questions for you: will the government finally do something about this, or will you continue to wait for Europe, which seems to be fooled? Will the sale be prohibited? Will you force agriculture to change course?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in reply to your questions, I would like to remind you of the division of competence at Belgian level in the field of plant protection products. Authorisation for placing plant protection products on the market on the basis of an assessment of the risks to health and the environment is a federal competence. The policy on the use of the products is a regional competence. Our powers in this area are complementary. I am therefore very attentive to the decisions and actions of the Regions. In addition, I repeat that we are working together on the next national action plan to reduce pesticides for the period 2018-2022, in which I prepare the federal part of the plan. I would remind you, moreover, that I am very vigilant and voluntarist in my powers. That is why I will shortly be presenting a decision prohibiting the placing on the market, and hence the use, of herbicides intended for private individuals, with the exception of biopesticides and some basic substances. I will also ban CMR2 products. These are herbicides, insecticides and fungicides suspected of having carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic effects. Those two product groups will therefore no longer be able to be sold or used for non-professional use. With this double decision, I express my desire to reduce the use of pesticides and apply the precautionary principle. In the meantime, the public consultation on the national action plan for reducing pesticides, which I mentioned earlier, has just been concluded. Other measures will be taken under that plan, in particular in relation to professional use, in consultation with the regions, the sectors and experts concerned. These include home protection measures, new precautionary measures and enhanced risk assessments. As regards the possible conflict of interest that came to light last week, I immediately asked my administration to assess the impact of the possible omission of the studies on the administration, to examine whether the presence or absence of other similar studies could alter the opinion on the issue and to do what is necessary to assess at European level the possible impact of the revelations on the European Union's proposals and analyses. I have always said that I would remain vigilant and that the precautionary principle must be strictly applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u53	Thank you, Minister. For the first time, I hear a few positive sounds. I hear you saying you're making a decision. That's a good thing. I can hear you taking the word "forbidden" in the mouth. That's a first. I hear you say that you will also be vigilant with regard to EFSA. In particular, the word "precautionary principle' was important. I will continue to follow the issue very closely, because public health must always take precedence over the economic interests and lobbying of multinationals. You have spoken words, and now you have to do what you have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u54	Minister, I was pleased to hear that you are taking a small step forward. I also heard you say that you have always honoured the precautionary principle. I have to tell you, I'm not convinced of that. I would have liked to know when you'd ban the sale. When you say that's for soon, it's not very clear. In any case, Minister, I insist that we should have had a ban on sales and use for a long time, both for individuals and for agriculture, out of caution. I didn't really hear you say anything about agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u55	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u56	Absolutely, Minister. That is indeed my proposal. I think you should do that, just in the name of the thousands of children who will be playing outside soon after the rainy days. That is what we are talking about, Minister, about the health of our thousands of children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some say this week is the week of the entrepreneur. During the entrepreneur's week it is also important to pay special attention to the entrepreneurs and the self-employed and to highlight their interests. Entrepreneurs and self-employed people work day after day on their business and on the employment of their employees, but also on our common, global prosperity. We are grateful to them for that. Mr Van Quickenborne, our entire group takes this view and supports an entrepreneurial policy. There are no minority views. We cannot and must not tolerate certain differences and distressing situations that would occur in the case of self-employed and entrepreneurs. The previous and current governments have already taken a great deal of action. Your predecessor, Minister, has already taken a great deal of measures to encourage and support enterprise, and to improve the status of self-employed workers, so that it becomes more attractive. From the questions addressed to your colleagues Mr Peeters and Mr Bacquelaine, we have learned that we must also work towards a strengthened link with work performance in the employees' statute. However, the social status of the self-employed also offers opportunities to improve the pension of the self-employed. We're asking for that. Of course, we agree with the decision taken last year to align the minimum pension of self-employed workers with the minimum pension of employees. This decision was made by all of us. However, I have the impression that there are still some delays in implementation and that examples from practice show that there are self-employed people who are difficult to obtain the minimum pension. My questions are as follows. First of all, what can you do to remedy this? Will you make the necessary adjustments to eliminate the differences, especially for the self-employed who do not yet receive the minimum pension? Secondly, you said that there would be a second pension pillar for the self-employed. At present, this group cannot claim this, although managers in companies can. For a number of years we have been suggesting that self-employed natural persons should also be entitled to a second pension pillar. It is important that this is included in their statute in order to boost their pension. What about the second pension pillar for the self-employed? I hear that this would be a decision in the Council of Ministers, but that implementation is not yet in place. So I would like to have an update on the second pension pillar for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, as you know, the social status of the self-employed is particularly close to my heart. During this legislature, I improved the status by taking several measures, such as the creation of the new system of caretaker for the self-employed, support for self-employed persons affected by a crisis situation, the reduction of the rate of social contributions from 22% to 20.5% in 2018, the improvement of maternity leave, the introduction of student entrepreneur's statute and the concrete implementation of the right of bridging with the introduction of the cessation for economic reasons. Several improvement measures have been taken for pensions, in particular as regards the minimum pension. For example, in August 2016, the amount of the minimum pension of the self-employed was aligned with that of the employees. This amount, which is still too low, will be increased in September as a result of the welfare adjustment. I can mention other measures, such as the abolition of the income limit in the context of the permitted activities for pensioners aged 65 or who have a professional career of 45 years. As regards the second pillar for self-employed natural persons, the Council of Ministers approved the social part of the draft at second reading on 29 March 2017. The text is currently before the Council of State. Together with my fellow Members, Mr Bacquelaine and Mr Van Overtveldt, I am working on completing the tax section. In the future, of course, I will propose and prepare other measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and also for your commitment to strengthening the social status of self-employed workers. Once again, I ask you to take action. Although we have decided so, in practice the minimum pension of a selfemployed person is not equal to the minimum pension of an employed person. I would ask you to eliminate the differences in this area. I would then ask you to ensure that the second pension pillar for the self-employed is quickly established. I hope that you will submit your texts quickly to Parliament so that we can deal with them. Hopefully this will happen in 2017. The self-employed deserve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u60	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u61	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 April 2017, I propose: 1) The following points to be postponed to Thursday 4 May 2017: - the legislative proposal (Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot, Mr Patricia Ceysens and Mr Leen Dierick and Mr Egbert Lachaert, Mr Vincent Scourneau et Benoît Friart) amending the Code of Companies and the Act of 31 January 2009 on the continuity of undertakings with a view to improving the winding-up of non-active companies, companies with a fictitious registered office and companies whose managers have insufficient professional knowledge, Nos 1940/1 to 8; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot and Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending the law of 22 March 1999 on the identification procedure through DNA investigations in criminal matters with a view to establishing a DNA database "Intervenants," Nos 2087/1 to 9; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Roel Deseyn, Mr Jef Van den Bergh, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Emmanuel Burton) on the diversity policy of the SNCB group, Nos 1276/1 to 7; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Mrs Smeyers and Mr Karolien Grosemans and Mr Koen Metsu and Mr Peter Buysrogge) amending the Code of Criminal Procedure to promote the fight against terrorism, Nos 2050/1 to 13; - the legislative proposal (Valerie Van Peel, Sarah Smeyers and Karolien Grosemans) amending the Organic Law of 8 July 1976 on public welfare centres to promote the fight against terrorist offences, Nos 1687/1 to 4; - the legislative proposal (Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Olivier Chastel, Mrs Françoise Schepmans, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Koen Metsu and Mrs Katja Gabriels) amending Article 134quines of the New Community Law in order to enable the Mayor to close down establishments suspected of terrorist activity, Nos 1473/1 to 11. 2) to enter next item on the agenda for today's plenary session: the motion for a resolution (Mr Philippe Blanchart, Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Benoit Hellings, Olivier Maingain, Dirk Van der Maelen and Marco Van Hees) on possible violence against the LGBTQIs in Chechnya, Nos 2421/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 April 2017, I propose: 1) to postpone the following points until Thursday, 4 May 2017: - the bill (Mr. David Clarinval, Mrs. Goedele Uyttersprot, Patricia Ceysens and Mr. Leen Dierick and Mr. Egbert Lachaert, Vincent Scourneau and Benoît Friart) amending the Company Code and the law of 31 January 2009 on business continuity, improving the procedure for the dissolution of inactive companies, whose headquarters are fictitious and those whose officials do not have sufficient professional knowledge, Nos. 1940/1 to 8; - the draft law (Ms. Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot and Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Mr. Egbert Lachaert and Ms. Carina Van Cauter) amending the Act of 22 March 1999 on DNA identification procedures in criminal matters, with a view to establishing a DNA database "Intervenants", Nos. 2087/1 to 9; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr MM. Roel Deseyn, Jef Van den Bergh, Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Emmanuel Burton) on diversity policy within the SNCB Group, Nos 1276/1 to 7. - the bill (Ms. Valerie Van Peel, Sarah Smeyers and Karolien Grosemans and MM. Koen Metsu and Peter Buysrogge) amending the Code of Criminal Investigation to promote the fight against terrorism, Nos. 2050/1 to 13; - the bill (Ms. Valerie Van Peel, Sarah Smeyers and Karolien Grosemans) amending the Act of 8 July 1976 on the Organization of Public Social Action Centres with a view to promoting the fight against terrorist offences, Nos. 1687/1 to 4; - the bill (MM. Denis Ducrame and Olivier Chastel, Françoise Schepmans, MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Koen Metsu and Mrs Katja Gabriëls) amending Article 134quinquies of the New Communal Law in order to enable the mayor to close establishments suspected of harbouring terrorist activities, Nos. 1473/1 to 11; 2. to include the following item in the agenda of today's plenary meeting: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Philippe Blanchart, Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr MM. Stéphane Crusnière, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Benoit Hellings, Olivier Maingain, Dirk Van der Maelen and Marco Van Hees) on potential violence against LGBTQI people in Chechnya, Nos. 2421/1 to 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u62	Mr President, point 8 on the resolution to encourage self-employed public enterprises to join an employment policy to combat youth unemployment in large cities should also be postponed to 4 May, since this resolution goes hand in hand with motion for a resolution No 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u63	I'm coming, Mrs. Onkelinx. The answer is yes. I also propose that, at the request of the PS Group, the discussion of the motion for a resolution (Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Laurent Devin, Mr Emir Kir, Eric Massin, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Mr Frédéric Daerden) be postponed to the plenum of 4 May 2017 in order to encourage the autonomous public enterprises to participate in an employment policy against youth unemployment in large cities, Nos 1762/1 and 2. I also propose, at the request of the PS Group, to postpone the discussion of the motion for a resolution (Ms Karine Lalieux and Laurette Onkelinx and MM. Laurent Devin, Emir Kir, Eric Massin, Jean-Marc Delizée and Frédéric Daerden) to encourage autonomous public enterprises to join an employment policy that fights youth unemployment in large cities, Nos. 1762/1 and 2, at the session of May 4, 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u64	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vandenput, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u65	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have had an extensive discussion in committee on this draft law. We were also faced with a novelty in our committee, I shall mention it, in particular the second reading. In other committees this technique is more established, in the case of the Defense Department this is not the case. However, I must say that this led to the updating of the texts. So it only benefited the legislative work. It would therefore be thought that this would lead to a committee-wide adoption of this important bill. If we are allowed to make abstraction of one party, coincidentally also the party who asked for second reading, this is also the case effectively. What is the meaning of this bill? It is about the creation of the War Heritage Institute as an umbrella organisation for preserving and honoring our military past. It is clear that this government, with the harmonisation of the management of the historical collections and the heritage of Defence, wants to put an end to the mess of past management structures and practices. The care for the historical military collections and the passing of the memory are secured with this War Heritage Institute, also for future generations. Mr President, without dismissals, we will be able to improve the operation, while maintaining a decentralised operation, and we will be able to support it more scientifically: who can oppose it? Perhaps only those who want to make some populist believe that weapons are being smuggled from Brussels to Flanders. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will be enthusiastically voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u66	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I almost want to applaud you, not to support the project that you are presenting to us today, but rather because through this project you will be able to apply the programme and ideology of your party: still fewer Belgium, federal and public. And for good reason! As you know, for my group, memory work must be an essential prerogative of National Defence and, more broadly, of the federal state, in clear consultation with the powers of the federated entities. It is true that, already under the previous legislature, the N-VA had announced colour in a parliamentary debate on a resolution on the commemorations of the First World War. You already defined the duty of memory as a competence of tourism. Aware of this outrageous position, my party took the initiative to draft strategic directions 2015-2030 for Defence well before this majority. Of course, among our five priorities were memory work. That is why, on November 10, 2015, with my colleagues, I tabled a resolution on National Defence's missions in memory work and citizenship development. We have been joined by the colleagues of the CDH and sp.a, whom I thank again. Defence must be a citizen actor, especially with regard to the younger generation. Remembering is a wealth that must guide our civic and political actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u67	Mr President, Mr Fernandez Fernandez is defending a resolution all the time and with the importance of a resolution when it comes to honouring our military past. Do you agree with me, Mr Fernandez Fernandez, that this bill, which has a little more legal force than a resolution, is certainly so important to focus on this very important aspect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u68	You know that very well because we have debated it in committee, I think that this bill is not in the same direction as the resolution we have tabled and against which, I believe, you have voted. Defence must be a citizen actor, especially with regard to the younger generation. Remembering is a wealth that must guide our civic and political actions so that the "never again" will find an echo as time passes and forgets inexorably. You have managed to fully realize one of the dreams of the N-VA when it comes to liquidating references to Belgium. Today, it is the Royal Museum of the Army and the Institute of Veterans that are in the line of sight. You didn't miss them! It is true that buildings, such as collections and management, do not date from this legislature. While Minister Flahaut had made many investments in the museum, further reforms and investments were and remain necessary, as my visits have shown or as confirmed by my contacts with various museum workers. During the previous legislature, my colleague Christophe Lacroix did not fail to address Minister De Crem on several occasions. I welcome the fact that you have therefore dealt with this issue. But reform and modernization did not involve privatizing or even regionalizing these collections. If for the time being this is not the case, as proposed, this project raises the worst fear. That is why we have tabled a series of amendments. The new name in English, which removes any Belgian and royal reference, is a mastery that the MR has allowed you to carry out in complete freedom, although its representatives in committee have from time to time indulged in a small and emotional spectacle. I am not talking about exhibitions or the state of buildings, but about the institution. The museum, by chance, will eventually retain its name, but the name "coupole" will make disappear from the European and international map a recognized organization, a name that embodied this institution; an institution that embodies a central role for my group, both in terms of the work of memory, its federal anchor, and in terms of the Federal Science Policy. The N-VA tank shaved everything, just like what Mrs. Sleurs did when she dismantled the Federal Science Policy. I would therefore like to take advantage of this text to make a small retroact. Act 1. Last June, Prime Minister, you finally released your strategic vision. Memory work is only mentioned on a very small page out of 144. Worse, in these meagre paragraphs, we are talking only about rationalization and sanitation. Read it, colleagues, privatisation and regionalisation. But we'll probably still say that it's populism. My colleague has anticipated the matter. For us, this project proves the opposite. Act 2. On July 20, the government decided to create a new Category B public interest organization that merges the Royal Army Museum with other entities and whose sole objective is to privatize the museum, its management and, eventually, its collections. In addition, at one of our last commissions, you made it clear that some collections, although owned by the federal state, would be entrusted to sites owned by third parties. The Institut des Vétérans, for its part, simply disappeared as a result of this merger. Of course, the Institute needed to be reformed, but not liquidated. In short, there will soon be no federal anchor in the memory of the Belgians. Act 3. An organizational chart, announcing the decentralization of certain flagship collections of the Cinquantenaire site, such as aircraft or tanks, leaked into the press. Mr Calomne himself was concerned at the October 5, 2016 commission about the transfer of certain parts to the Air and Space section of the MRA to Coxide. So, not content with privatizing, we can fear regionalization for the benefit, once again, of the northern part of the country and to the detriment, above all, of the federal capital. Although you have defended this, you have repeatedly told us that the work of memory is either tourism or education, i.e. two subjects which are no longer the responsibility of the Federal State. I'll come back. Act 4. As with raising the age of military pension, it seems that here too, you do little to consult staff before implementing your reform of the MRA and the Institut des Vétérans. Here too, I want to point out the discussion we had on May 31, 2016 about parastatals. The fate of this institution's civilian and military personnel is a central concern for me and my group. I will not fail to ask you again very regularly, as I have always done, about the evolution of their fate, which many of them do not know at this very advanced stage of the matter. Fifth act. Today we have come to the bill that embodies this time line. But how can we believe that this operation aims to modernize and save money knowing that work is planned in a military school building for €2.3 million as part of the reform of the Royal Army Museum? Similarly, how can we justify confiscating EUR 2.5 million patiently saved by the institution rather than injecting this money into rooms for renovation? I am not going to rest the questions I asked in committee, but I would like to reiterate that I am convinced that Defence must continue, in good understanding with the federated entities in their own competence, to ensure the transmission of memory to future generations and thus maintain the indispensable link between the army and the nation for the sake of peace. A link, Minister, that is being undermined by your strategic vision. In good intelligence with federated entities, this means collaboration, not delegation! In this reform, the only thing we can welcome is the great involvement of the Communities and the Regions, which will enable all the public tools, such as education and tourism, to be used. However, I would like to recall that the meeting of the concertation committee on 26 October 2016, which examined the project, provided only a positive opinion on the replacement in the Royal Decree of 30 October 1996 of the Federal Scientific Institutions of the words "Royal Army Museum and Military History" with the words "War Heritage Institute". The questions of changing the Institute's name as such, of the possible dispersion of collections, of the role of the site of the Fiftieth Anniversary were not the subject of this assent. Minister, we fear a genuine disengagement from the federal government and, ultimately, the implementation of your program: regionalization and privatization. I do not invent it and quote you: "The renovation and operation of the Museum will be requested from a private partner". This is not an option for the Socialist Group! The federal state and its valuable scientific resources have more than ever a role to play in public structures. Minister, it is not with all the participants denounced by the Council of State in this project that you will achieve this objective. For all these reasons, my group will vote against this project, because it removes the federal anchor of memory work and will eventually undermine the public and federal character of this Brussels institution. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the Socialist Party, the memory of the Belgians is not for sale, the memory of the Belgians cannot be divided, the memory of the Belgians does not belong to anyone, because it must serve us all in order not to hear tomorrow the black flight of crows on our plains.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u69	Mr President, if I may, I will speak to my bench, because I have little problems with tension. So don't piss me off! Minister, I too want to applaud you, like Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, but of course not for the same reasons. Rather, I feel that through this bill before us this afternoon, it is precisely all the fears raised by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and the PS group that will find a positive response to the objective pursued by the government and the majority. If the importance of memorial work is so crucial for the PS group, we wonder why this famous Army Museum has remained so long in a state that can be described as dusty. I have often taken my children to this museum and have always been surprised by his condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u70	Mr. Miller, I don't want to piss you off if you're not well. I advise you, as I say to the minister, to do yoga, a wise discipline to manage stress and tension. Indeed, we as socialists certainly have a responsibility for what has not been done. We certainly haven't done enough. But I would like to point out that, on the one hand, Mr Flahaut is the one who has invested the most in this museum, which has brought it the most, in particular by transferring scientists to it. On the other hand, Mr. De Crem managed this museum for one or two legislatures. You are not going to blame the socialists for the holes in the roof, as the president, Mrs Grosemans, did in a rather unsophisticated manner in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u71	Indeed, Mr. President, I will not have this inlegacy. All I wanted to point out - and I thank Mrs Fernandez Fernandez for having done so - is that there is also a responsibility of different groups and the Socialist Group, like perhaps others, in relation to the sad state in which this important museum has remained for years. That is correct. On the other hand, these are also the reasons why I am still happy to see this majority coming, as my colleague pointed out earlier, with an important bill, whose ambition is to provide answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u72	Just two words! You're talking about the building. I recall that the Régie des Bâtiments is for something and the Régie des Bâtiments, until recently, it was Mr Reynders!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u73	As I said, there are responsibilities and I didn't put them away. I just wanted, after hearing Mrs Fernandez Fernandez in the gallery, to point out that there was still such a historic responsibility – as it is the case – on the part of the PS group and the fact that this important museum could be visited with children but we could not explain anything, we could not see where the weapons and objects to show were, etc. You had to be a historian like Mr. Cheron before you could be there. That will no longer be the case! We are therefore debating this bill, Mr.President, and I would like to remind the minister that this important bill is included in our majority agreement, and I quote: "The government will look into the future, place and status of the National Geographical Institute, the Royal Army Museum, the Central Agency for Social and Cultural Action, the Institute of Veterans, the National Institute of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims." It was planned that a working group, under the authority of the Minister of Defence, would bring these two last administrations together to assess the advantages and disadvantages of structural rapprochement between these parastatals. That is what was included in this government's policy statement, and that is what the minister is bringing to fruition today. So I know that the subject has always been controversial when we open our mailboxes and pick up our messages. We see that an entire activism has developed. Mr President, I would like to point out three points in relation to this. Since the publication of the strategic vision on June 30, 2016, it has been clear – and it has always been clear, Mrs Fernandez – that the government of Prime Minister Charles Michel wishes to preserve the federal character of the collections of memory and military heritage. I quote the text of the strategic vision: "This organization" (the new parastatal body serving as a dome for the organizations of the military historical pole) "should ensure a better exploitation of the military heritage that will remain the property of the federal authority." It's written black and white. It's an extract. But you can challenge it. These are already two texts that I quote indicating that this remains federal property.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u74	We are not going to repeat the debates here, otherwise the work in committee would not make sense, but during the exchanges in committee, I did not get confirmation. My fears and fears of the Socialist Group have not been removed. [[Microphone problem]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u75	It seems to me that there is a major problem with the microphones. I therefore ask to resolve it. I ask that the problem be resolved as soon as possible. A piece of your speech will be lost, Mrs Fernandez. (Micro test) Can we try, Mr. Miller?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u76	Vous m'entendez? [[Oui]] Mr President, I do not understand why this kind of thing always happens to me! But I'm coming back to my presentation. Mrs Fernandez, our group has heard the Minister's answers. We are fully convinced that the objectives will be met. I understand that you have tabled amendments. But understand, in your turn, that we can find them useless. Let me repeat a very important passage from the bill under consideration: "(...) the military heritage that will remain the property of the federal authority. In this context, it will also be possible to conclude cooperation agreements with the Communities for the exploitation of regional sites." As usual, you interpret the text a little negatively. But it must be read positively. This will allow us to work with important regional sites that have been marked by history. I asked the minister about Mons who told me that many entities were involved, such as Bastogne, Malmedy, etc. You should be aware that this collaboration or cooperation will allow you to see, among other things, what happens to certain collections in these entities. In Mons, for example, many rooms are no longer in the museum today. (...): There have been many battles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u77	That's right. We were invaded and resisted well. But because we had battles, we gathered a lot of coins. However, a large part of these are no longer the property of the museum and it is not known where they are. Questions must therefore be developed, in particular within the Mons Communal Council, in which a group leader, whom I know well and who will not refuse to do so, participates. This joke aside, thanks to this, it will be possible to see what is done at the regional level to implement the memory work to which we are attached just as much as you. If pieces of our heritage need repairs, they must take place. Indeed, we find it essential to maintain this heritage that we must be able to send where the best reparations will be made. Parts will be moved to temporary exhibitions. Good! It is desirable that our collections can be displayed anywhere in Belgium, even abroad, and especially on European soil, which also needs memory work. The WHI will be able to establish agreements for the exchange of historical documents with Belgian institutions determined by royal decree, and foreign institutions; I repeat that this instrument is not nothing. It will make it possible to highlight what museums like Mons have, so as to constitute a truly national heritage, in a federalized country. The volume of the collections is too large for all of them to be exhibited at the Royal Army Museum. So some will be in other museums. Good: the greater the number of people who can go to see them, the better. In addition, I am pleased that the federal state finally intervenes to carry out and finance repairs to the exhibition halls of the Musée du Cinquantenaire. Public funds will be mobilized to renovate the 50th anniversary through the Régie des Bâtiments. These include EUR 15 million for roofing, for example. But I repeat: why did it take so long for this museum to receive the interest it deserves? This majority has an interest in this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u78	It was because there was a minister of the budget under the former legislature, and you must be familiar with it, because it was Mr. Chastel. This one didn't want to untie the purse cords. That's no more or less the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u79	Knowing Mr. Chastel very closely, if he had made this decision, it was that it came from the government, and he had his reasons. I simply note that this majority, in which you also participated...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u80	She did a lot of things, but then he said no.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u81	We can cry over the widespread milk and complain about everything that has not been done in the past, but we can also rejoice. That is what I am doing at this forum, even though I was in my place earlier. We can be pleased to see the current majority of government, along with its partners in the N-VA, doing what we might have had to do. I pay tribute to this, because I think that the work of memory is extremely important. On the other hand, thanks to this government, the Musée du Cinquantenaire, the main site of Belgian military history remains the most important centre of military collections. He's staying in Brussels. I heard Mrs Fernandez Fernandez say that this heritage was going elsewhere, but she caught up saying that he was going to stay in extremis. It's true, but he stays, and he keeps his name, you've agreed to it, too. Mr Minister, we, the whole majority, will pay attention to the royal decree that you are going to draft and present to the Council of Ministers so that this IOP will have the status of a federal scientific institution. I would point out to the opposition that this royal decree will have to receive the assent of the federal governments. It's not nothing, either. The willingness to work with the federated institutions, whether they are from the north or the south of the country, seems to me quite logical. I welcome the working climate in the consultation committee and wish for continuity on this point. For current staff, the one occupied in 2017 will be resumed at 100%. There will be no dismissal. As far as the financial resources are concerned, the Minister of Defence explained himself at length during last December's budget debate. I am convinced that the consolidation of institutions will ultimately lead to savings that can be reinvested in the museum and the transmission of memory. In this regard, the entire process under way is not only an opportunity to put a little order, but also to rethink the scenography of the museum presentation and the pedagogical work of these institutes. We must dare the ambition of a more modern scenography that allows the memory work to which we are attached. As for the role of the private sector, I know that for some, the intervention of a private actor is equivalent to the introduction of the devil into the box. That's not my conception. Especially since here, the federal state remains the main actor and referent. The Royal Order that will complement this bill will determine the list of partners with which the WHI will work to exchange historical exhibits. This list is very important. It must be regionally balanced and the control of the coins by the federal government must be unquestionable. We will be careful about this, particularly at the level of our group. In conclusion, Minister, the MR Group endorses and supports your initiatives to implement the government agreement. As parliamentarians, we will be attentive to the detailed implementation of this bill and the related Royal Order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u82	Mr President, I believe that we are all mobilized by the need to ensure that the memory of wars and their victims remains a national issue, carried by the whole country. This deserves renewed and more ambitious attention than the one that exists today. I have studied the bill that is before us. We have the impression that through it, the government today has the will - we will see if it translates into reality - to better articulate the memory, to preserve it at the federal level, to better showcase the collections, to articulate in the future, with the federal memory, a series of sites that are not yet. Miller spoke about the Mons Memorial Museum, but there is also Memorial 1815 in Waterloo, Malmedy's Baugnez 44 Historical Center, and a series of other sites and collections that can be articulated in relation to this umbrella cupola that will now be the War Heritage Institute. Indeed, there are also concerns that have been expressed, particularly by the population. Minister, you responded to these concerns by saying that there was no question that the federal government would disenfranchise from these collections, that there was no question that these collections would leave existing museums and that, if there were to be agreements to have loans in relation to certain pieces, they would obviously still be owned and under the authority of the federal state. I would like you to repeat these assurances here because, indeed, it is important that these collections remain under the control and control of the federal state. Other criticisms were expressed about the resources that would be allocated to this War Heritage Institute. Today, budgetary resources are limited. I believe that, in order to truly meet this ambition of memory, it will be necessary to ensure that, in the future, additional and sufficient budgetary resources are devoted to the exercise of memory. I would just like to conclude by saying that, in the current times, it is important that we honour the victims of the conflicts that have devastated our country, that we can do so together, in the same way, with the same eyes, whether these victims are in the North, in the Centre or in the South of the country. I hope that through this bill, this government's ambition, we will be able to highlight this memory, continue and expand the necessary research and ensure that this memory exercise will in future help to preserve the country from the outrages and violence it has experienced in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u83	Mr President, I confess to being surprised by the naivety of some! Of course, we are all committed to the duty of memory. We are all anxious to re-establish the Army Museum as a reference museum, which it is by the quality of its collections. I would like to recall that we probably have the first world collection by variety for the period of the Great War, we have the second world collection for European decorations in the Napoleonic era, we are among the first four or five collections in the world for ancient hairstyles, the Georges Titeca collection, we have the second world public collection for German helmets. I could still say that the Russian Hall is the second world public collection outside Russia and so on. Undoubtedly, the Royal Army Museum is one of the great museums in Belgium! It is true that a debate is under way on the fear of dismemberment or dispersal of these collections, on the pretext of partnerships with tourism institutions or centres in the other regions of the country. That's where I say "Beware of naivety"! Everyone tells me that the collections will remain the property of the State. So what? Obviously, what has escaped many, is the famous Flemish decree Topstukken. What does this decree say for movable cultural heritage of exceptional interest? It establishes the right for the Flemish Government to refuse the release from Flanders of collections considered exceptional. In itself, that is a good principle. I'm more committed to some kind of protection. But this means that if, tomorrow, all or part of some of the collections of the Royal Army Museum were located in the Flemish Region – and I am not talking about a temporary exhibition, I am talking about a desire to complete the collections of one or the other institution in Flanders – the Flemish government could, on its own initiative, with the opinion of its Council for the Conservation of Movable Cultural Heritage, declare that these collections can no longer leave Flemish territory. This, moreover, took place for a C-119 in Melsbroek, since it was targeted by a measure of the Flemish Government, as evidenced by the Belgian Moniteur of 12 September 2012. Go read it! The C-119 remains the centrepiece of the Flemish Region. Of course, it is still the property right of the State. However, the use, and I would even say usufruct, is to the advantage of Flanders alone. It will therefore require the agreement of his Government to be able, possibly, to repatriate coins to Brussels which would be temporarily located in the Flemish Region. No one's worried about it. Yet this is where the danger lies. I, Mr. Miller, would like to have an excellent collaboration between entities. But, in this case, it is important to remove legal ambiguities and do so before we pass the bill that we are being proposed today. Guarantees must be provided that, for example, the Flemish Decree does not apply to collections owned by the State. However, the Flemish decree does not mention this. In that case, it should be amended accordingly. A commitment must be made and, more importantly, translated into legal terms, in order to prevent this kind of de facto appropriation of the collections that would be placed in the Flemish Region. I have no problem considering it. Indeed, I find that several historic sites recall the battles and other realities that this country and its predecessors have experienced, since we were a land of conflict. But this must be organised in legal clarity. However, this bill does not guarantee that. This is why a citizen movement for the preservation of the national heritage was born, which launched a vast petition and which was particularly moved by the movements of cannon drums which had so far been installed at the entrance of the museums, questioning the reason for their relocation. The petition rightly states: "We do not agree to leave Brussels, the seat of the Federal Scientific Museums, international cultural lighthouses, empty of its heritage". In short, collaboration between entities: yes; next imbalance, for the benefit of a Region: no! Therefore, I believe that until this issue is clearly resolved legally, I will not be able to follow the logic of the government and, in particular, the Minister of National Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to say a word about Breendonk. I'm going to play cards on the table: I'm an administrator of Breendonk. Your predecessor, Mr.Minister, and yourself, in 2015, appointed me to be a member of this board of directors – I say it, without a token of presence! Today, we are about to abolish the institution. There will no longer be legal personality, in any case, no more own services, no more means fed by donations or bequests, no more autonomy of management. I take note of that. I am not saying that the overall reform proposed in the form of an institute is inconsistent. Rationalizations are conceivable, I would even say desirable, in the field of the army, military institutions and institutions relating to the victims of war. But, Breendonk, it's something else. And the desire to create a great administration at the departure of institutions that are eminently different by their object, by their methods or by their purpose disturbs me. I feel uncomfortable following you, Minister, on the proposed path. What's the problem? It's political, and doubly. The first political problem is a problem of method. At the time of the government's formation in October 2014, it drafted a government statement. And it announces the rationalization of a set of institutions. Miller recalled them: the Royal Army Museum, the Institute of Veterans, the National Institute of War Invalids, the historical centre of defence. Point! I was going to say, "Breendonk's point!" Today, Breendonk is in target. Of two things one: either, we wanted to make up the reality in 2014, not to talk about Breendonk, not to provoke too much controversy or reaction; or, we changed our minds, and the least we could do would be to explain the reasons for this addition. I have read the explanatory memorandum, there is no word about it, no explanation! The second political problem is a fundamental one. We want to celebrate memory, including in the new institute. All right! But, I see that memory through the institute, one wants - excuse me for the formula - to militarize it. Your formula, Minister, was to say "Belgium, the battlefield". The memory, I allow myself to say, is not just the army, it is not just the defence, it is not just the battles, it is not only the Belgian military who are here or elsewhere in the fight. There is a civil memory, a citizen, a political memory that cannot be neglected. We cannot save it, less than ever. Anyway, it's not a barracks! Breendonk was not a military camp made for prisoners who were allegedly, at some point, caught in combat, allegedly disarmed, demobilized. It's not a military history site, Breendonk! Breendonk, it's a transit place for political prisoners. "Politics" is not just a question of words, it is a question of substance, it is a question of fundamentally different reality. Men and women are waiting for their departure for Dora, Buchenwald or Esterwegen. They were there, forgotten by all. I have the impression today that we want to plunge these political prisoners a little more into oblivion. Memory is not just a matter of historians. Memory is not just a military matter. Memory is the business of the citizens of this country! This is a matter that could be brought to a successful conclusion if we do not erase, at the cost of administrative reform, an important page in our history and in our political life. I regret that this dual political dimension of the project, which is currently on the table, has not been taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment to address Mr Maingain, before listening to the Minister's reply to Mr Delperée. Mr Maingain, you have highlighted the existence of a decree in the Flemish Community aimed at preserving cultural property on the territory. Let me draw your attention to the fact that the same decree exists in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation for Wallonia and for Brussels. It is a decree which was written in almost the same terms and which was carried, at the time, by Minister Rudy Demotte and myself, even though it was Mr Demotte who had the responsibility for it. In doing so, I have the feeling that, through the bill put by Minister Vandeput, we may have the possibility, today, of having an instrument to "paste" memory duties to the federal reality of today's Belgium. Mr Maingain, like you, I am a very regionalist. I know very well Wallonia and the interest that may be hers to have, on her territory, an important museum dimension. I therefore welcome the fact that property remains federal. I also welcome the strengthening of cooperation with the federated entities. Don't be displeased, Mr. Maingain, the francophones didn't stand still, didn't remain silent when Flanders made arrangements! I even think that, on that occasion, the Francophones had outstripped the Flemish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u86	Mr. President, Mr. Miller, I'm trying to understand your pro-domo plea. The problem is not here. The French Community has issued a decree. So what? The problem lies in the fact that until now the French Community has not reserved itself, as Flanders has done for a C-119, the almost exclusive use in its territory of property belonging to the State. That's what I highlighted. It is obvious that the decrees have their raison d'être. I said that in my speech. But when it comes to the federal state's public collections, it is necessary to adapt the laws – if you wish me to say so – of the two Communities so that this right reserved by the Community governments cannot be applied to collections owned by the federal state because that is not the case. Whether the French Community or the Flemish Community prevent, perhaps, the collections of the city of Liège, or, on the other side of the border, those of the city of Ghent or Antwerp, from being relocated, I can understand that. But not for collections from the federal state: that makes no sense! Therefore, Community legislation must be adapted to the objective pursued by your bill. Once you have obtained this legal guarantee, we will talk about this bill. But you don't have it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u87	I'm not going to keep the debate going. We will hear the Minister's answers on this, and we will be very attentive. However, I note one thing, Mr Maingain: I find that what you are advocating, the commitment of Belgium to its federated entities, is somewhat below the political posture of DéFI, the former FDF, etc. I continue to argue that if we have a bill that the MR group supports, it is because it reaffirms federal ownership of the coins, and the willingness to work with the federated entities is present. I regret to say this again: the Walloon that I find very interesting that Wallonia can also have important pieces to showcase in its territory. I don't want to unblock the federal heritage. Indeed, we vote for a text that reaffirms this property; but Walloon interest, perhaps less sensitive at DéFi, is in any case very marked at MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u88	Mr President, I believe that today we have an opportunity to make a very important decision when it comes to le travail de memoire, keeping our memory and history alive. I regret, however, that the PS did not take advantage of the period of reflection that it allowed itself by delaying this law to reflect, and that it did not seize the opportunity to assume its responsibilities in this matter that it has mismanaged for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u90	It's not just about the minister, Mrs. Onkelinx. You know very well who was part of the board, even under the former minister. The management did not fail, once the previous minister was finally ready to appoint a new board, to stick sticks in the wheels. Let us not go into that further. If you wish, Mrs Onkelinx, I would very much like to respond to that. I would very much like to comment on the way your people have made the Army Museum, both the site Cinquantenaire and the rest, what it is now. With regard to commemoration and the duty of memory... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u91	Let's hear the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u92	I have time, Mr President. I've been waiting a long time. We have taken many steps to bring this bill to a successful conclusion, and I am sure that we will do so tonight. I would like to remind my fellow Members that we have taken the time to go through the procedures and, for the first time in a long time, something that may not be fully understood by the PS, to merge the different entities and to align them all. I will return to Mr Delperée's question. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you have asked enough questions over the years about progress on this dossier. You have therefore been able to see that we have held consultations with the trade unions at a certain time. I have the advice here, if you'd like to see it. If you are concerned about the concerns of those who work or will work in the WHI, I have here a positive opinion from Committee B dated 14 December 2016. They say they are ready to contribute to this new organization, which will offer a future for our duty of remembrance and the presentation of our collections, which, as Mr.Maingain points out, of an internationally recognized quality, must not remain in deposits. Colleagues, certainly with the PS, we clearly disagree on what we should actually do with our heritage. For the PS, commemoration is only for Defence. No teaching about commemoration, it's not necessary! For my part, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I prefer to attract a large audience to a collection of this importance and which holds such a commemorative force. If you say, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, that the story of the memory schools should not be involved, then I understand that you are simply expressing a deficiency of governments of which you are a member. As far as nomenclature is concerned, as I have already said several times, when we talk about the War Heritage Institute, we are talking about a dome organization of everything related to the commemoration and presentation of the collections relating to the defence of the territory and to the conflicts in which Belgium was involved. It is mentioned in this law that the Royal Army Museum will be the main site of the WHI, in the 50th Anniversary Park in Brussels. I think we can't do more than point it out in the law! Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you're talking about the privatization of collections. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, sometimes a little intellectual honesty should be possible. In order to bring about intellectual honesty, there is, of course, also a need for some intellectual work. I therefore ask you once again to read the texts approved in committee, which are before the vote today, and you will find that the law states the following. I repeat this for Mr Dallemagne: the collections of the Federal State will be the responsibility of the Federal State. Point on the line! Mr Maingain, with regard to Topstukkendecreet, I would like to mention, as Mr Miller has already done, that there is also a decree of the French Community, which is one year earlier than its Flemish equivalent. I had to do some research, but I remember mentioning in committee the date of 11 July, a special date for me. On 11 July 2002 the decree was issued at the level of the French Community. For the German-speaking Community, a decree was issued on 20 February 2017. All the Communities of our State have such a decree. It is stipulated in the law that the collections belong to the Federal State. I don't think we really know how to do better. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, as far as veterans are concerned, I ask you the question. What do you prefer? A commemoration that is... I'm going to ask in Dutch. What do you prefer? A veteran effect with the necessary people and resources or a structure? When I put the question to the Institute of Veterans and to the people who spoke on behalf of the veterans in the preparation of this law, they say that they prefer good services rather than a large structure. Well, that's my bet. My commitment to this law is precisely to focus on what is important rather than focusing on structures, which have proven to be useful in the past but which cannot actually deliver the service that can be expected of them today. That's what it's all about in the end. When you talk about staff concerns, I repeat that I have the report of Committee B of 14 December 2016. It is the slowdowns you cause that cause such fears among employees. The reform could have been clearly presented to them. It is because you are engaging in small political games that we will have to make every effort to ensure that as of May 1 - and I believe it is a date that matters to you - employees know where they are. You talked about the investments. Again, I am well aware that the policy of the PS is to directly manage the Institutes. It's not mine. Having said that, for the sake of clarity, I must point out that the investments we are making are possible because we are generating savings, particularly in terms of the rents of the Institute of Veterans. In conclusion, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I do not understand the meaning of your intervention. As I have already told you, as far as employees are concerned, Committee B - in which your union is involved - has given a positive opinion. In addition, I have before me the notification of the Concertation Committee of 26 October 2016, which expresses the positive opinion of the Regions and Communities concerned. I note, moreover, that several of them are managed by the PS. That is why I really do not understand why, at a time when you have the opportunity to take your responsibilities in a case that was so badly managed by your party, you do not seize this opportunity and refuse to assure the Institute of the future that it deserves. Mr. Miller, I have repeated to you that the collections are part of the WHI collection and that this will not change. I know, and you know, when you mention the future royal decree... You referred to the royal decision on the scientific institutions, which will be This is the subject of consultation in the Council of Ministers. Be reassured about what's going to happen. Mr Dallemagne, I have already said that the collections will come from the federal state. As far as budgetary resources are concerned, the future budget will be the same as that of the institutions that are gathered. The savings that will be realized will be reinvested in the institute itself. We want to get a better service, presentation and result at the commemorative level. This will be the duty of the War Heritage Institute (WHI). Mr.Maingain, it would have been helpful if you had taken the time to read the bill. All the answers to your fears can be found there. But I know it's hard for you. Mr Delperee, I heard what you said. I would like to draw your attention to Article 5, § 4, No. 4 of the draft law, which states: "The transmission of the fighting memory and memory of both the civilian and the military victims of the armed conflicts in which the Belgians were engaged, as well as the experience of armed conflicts in all their forms". In the very missions of the law is the commemoration of civilians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u93	The question is not about who is being bombed, but about the political prisoners, those who carried a political message at the time of the war, who refused to cooperate, who were imprisoned in the Nazi jails, who were tortured by Belgian executioners. Why then did you not write: "political prisoners"? The case of civilian casualties is quite different. He is the unfortunate, victim of enemy bombs, or sometimes even allies. It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u94	Yes and no. As I said, the council of the Breendonk Fort Memorial was involved in the preparation of this law and agreed to what we have undertaken. I repeat, it is easy to say how to do it. You're talking about militarization. The opposite is true. The composition of the Board of Directors of the WHI is described in the Act. It is very clear that all categories of persons involved in the commemoration will be represented. I understand your fears, but they are obsolete. You know I'm taking part in commemorations in Breendonk myself. The work done there is very important. This operation is mainly necessary to sustain memory work, also in Breendonk. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have answered the questions sufficiently. With your approval, you will make an important choice about the future of the parastaals associated with Defence. Thanks to the proposed operation with more efficient use of resources, we will see a better result in terms of the core tasks of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u95	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to Mr Vandeput that the Socialist Party has never been the majority in the government. We can regret it, but that's how it is. We can, as I have done in committee, as I have done here, assume some of the responsibility, but I will remind you that, for three legislatures, we have no longer had Defence in our powers and, in my opinion, even longer for the budget and the Régie des Bâtiments. So I'm sending the ball back to some of your majority partners. You say the PS increased the fear by keeping waiting. We may have asked for a second reading and extended the work. First of all, these are parliamentary and democratic procedures. I hope you don't question them. Secondly, I will tell you, in the form of an endad, that we have still waited longer for your strategic project, for which we have slides but for which we still expect some content! I will tell you that of course I share all the concerns of Mr Maingain and I repeat to my colleagues in the MR, who seem to have only, if they are also certain of the absence of a problem, I invite them to vote for the amendments tabled by the PS which are in this direction. Minister, in your reply, you were, for a moment, on the brink of insult by saying that for the Socialist Party, there was only war, defence, etc. I would like to remind you that both in my speech and in all those I have made on behalf of my group, I have always said that, indeed, in terms of the duty of memory, Defence should not be the only actor and that it should work in collaboration with the federated entities, whether it be education or tourism. I would like to point out that since 2009, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation has had a decree that focuses on the duty of memory. Schools work in collaboration with neighbourhood associations, with young people because, for us, it is essential. As you have been on the brink of insult, I will allow myself to be so. Do not hesitate to invite some of your government colleagues to visit the Royal Army Museum, do not hesitate to invite some of your government colleagues to the duty of remembrance, because the memory, I think, in this matter, they have lost it! I will end by telling you that from the very beginning I feel that you are upset about this matter and that the vigilance on the part of the Socialist Party is annoying you. As I said in committee, there is probably more important than the Royal Army Museum. There is probably more important than the proposal that you are bringing today: the creation of this institution. What is most important and worrying is what you are doing: it is the N-VA project! Here, we are on a symbolic record that proves your intention to destroy the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u96	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2320/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2320/7) The title was changed by the Committee in draft law establishing the "War Heritage Institute" and integrating the assignments, resources and staff of the Institute of Veterans - National Institute for Disabilities of War, Former War Warriors and Victims of War, the Royal Army Museum and Military History, the National Memorial of the Fortress of Breendonk and the Historical Pool of Defence." The title has been amended by the committee in draft law establishing the War Heritage Institute and integrating the missions, means and personnel of the Veterans Institute - National Institute of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims, the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History, the National Memorial of Breendonk Fort, and the Historical Pole of Defence". The draft law has 39 articles. The bill has 39 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u98	*** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u99	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u100	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rule 3, 20. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 2, 4 to 19, 21 to 39.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u101	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Koen Metsu, Conseil Degroote, Brecht Vermeulen
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u103	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u104	Mr President, on 1 January 2015, the areas of assistance were given their legal personality. There are thirty-four relief zones. Some zones needed a little more time. Obviously, such a reform, accompanied by a completely renewed training policy, should not be underestimated. The aim of this proposal is to improve the involvement of assisted areas in training policies. In the Committee on the Interior, it was not so much a debate but rather a discussion in which majority and opposition found each other. I would like to thank my fellow Members sincerely for this. Two outstanding questions were answered, the first concerning the financial impact. In this context, the Treasury Inspectorate gave a positive opinion because this additional body costs nothing, in addition to some transport costs. The second question concerned the role of the knowledge centre. The KCCE is involved in the new council that makes up the syllabi, for whom of that matter is soaked. It's this board, not the knowledge center, that will evaluate the syllabi.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u105	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u106	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2293/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (22933) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in its draft law amending the Law of 15 May 2007 on Civil Security with a view to setting up training councils and a High Council for Training." The Court of Justice of the European Communities has consistently held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has failed to fulfil its obligations under the EC Treaty and that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has failed to fulfil its obligations under the EC Treaty. The draft law has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u108	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Thiébaut and Mr Metsu, refer to the written report. Mrs Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to worry. I'll make it pretty quick. With this draft law, the government intends to reform the control and inspection of nuclear installations. That interests us all. Nuclear safety is, after all, a very important issue. In view of the lame track record of our obsolete and deprecated nuclear power stations, I believe that we should attach even more importance to nuclear safety than in the past. Over the last few months and years, our nuclear power stations have excelled in untrustworthyness. There were numerous incidents. From abroad, too, it has occasionally been pointed out that our nuclear power stations would not be reliable and even unsafe. There was a complaint about a number of Dutch municipalities; 90 municipalities from Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands have taken Electrabel and the FANC to court in connection with Tihange 2; the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia has taken millions of iodine tablets for fear of a nuclear disaster in Belgium and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the government wanted to rush the draft through Parliament rather quickly. However, we have asked for hearings, for example because we had received a message from Greenpeace. I should like to thank the Minister for the fact that these hearings, albeit after slight pressure, are finally permitted. There are two things to be said about the draft law, but I will confine myself to the transparency and independence of physical controls on nuclear installations. I believe that everyone agrees that transparency and independence must be guaranteed. However, we must note that this is not the case today. The best illustration of this is that the former CEO of Doel's nuclear power plants has just become the FANC's DG and may sit on the board of directors of the Bel V branch, which is associated with the FANC, and that should be responsible for controls on nuclear sites. The draft law does not provide a solution. I have therefore tabled an amendment to this effect, together with Mr Thiébaut and Mr Nollet. Your answer, Minister, was that it is important to recruit the right man or woman in the right place. Apparently, there is a blind eye for incompatibility and possible conflict of interest. That is why we have retabled our amendment. The bill also offers no solution to the legal twilight zone in which Bel V is located today. Bel V, which was founded in 2008 as a branch of the FANC, carries out checks in the Belgian nuclear power stations and nuclear installations of the large university hospitals. In the absence of the necessary implementing decisions on the FANC Act in its current form, the current operation of Bel V and other small private recognised institutions is still in fact illegal. The bill wants to fix that. Despite the relevant resolutions adopted in Parliament in 2007 and 2010, this shows once again the relative importance of resolutions on the subject, Bel V remains a private-law institution. This is clearly contrary to the resolutions adopted at the time. That is why we have tabled a number of other amendments. With our amendments, we want to better define Bel V's outsourced tasks and transform the institution into a foundation of public utility, in accordance with the Parliament's resolutions of 2007 and 2010. These are Amendments Nos 5, 6 and 7. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you can still change your mind and approve these amendments. As regards the separation between the responsibilities of the licence holders and the safety authorities and the broad interpretation of the concept of "physical control', we also believe that the draft law is not satisfactory. An amendment was also tabled to this effect. One of Greenpeace's main critical comments concerns transparency. We wanted to respond to Greenpeace's comments and also apply the Aarhus Convention in Belgium. After all, the draft law does not fully follow that treaty. That is why we have Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public That amendment aims to make a policy statement the subject of a public participation procedure and a strategic environmental impact assessment, as required by the Aarhus Convention. In this way, we will build in sufficient guarantees so that the position of other public authorities is known and taken into account. We also provide for a 10-year review and a review of that policy statement. Mr Minister, you initially wanted to go into that, but you were stopped for a while by CD&V, who felt that this was not possible. We very much regret that. You can rectify that by supporting our amendment. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group agrees with the reform and improvement of the control and inspection of the safety of the Belgian nuclear installations, but we do not believe that the draft law is sufficiently transparent and clearly separate between the responsibilities of the licence holders and the safety authorities. That is why we will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must say that we see a very different approach to nuclear safety in this legislature. I have had the pleasure of being present in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety in the previous legislature. Well then, strangely enough, we saw almost only the Minister responsible for Energy and almost never Mrs Milquet. We have been able to welcome the Minister of the Interior, who came to explain his policy and the FANC's policy, with the regularity of a clock. This positive evolution is the result of the growing interest in nuclear safety, and that is absolutely necessary. Colleagues, let's stay serious. I have just heard the criticism that the director of the FANC, who has to deal to a large extent with what is happening in the nuclear power stations, has experience of nuclear power plants. I'm glad the FANC is being run by someone who knows things from the inside out. There would be nothing worse than picking someone from a completely different sector to control the nuclear power plants. The fact alone that Mr Bens' predecessor came from the same stable and had the knowledge to carry out his work correctly seems important to me. With this text we are taking an important step forward. Anyone who could make it to the end of the hearing will be able to testify that some interesting points were raised. I have to say that, unfortunately, one of the parties who asked the most for the hearing could ask little or no questions and could not stay until the end, but so be it, everyone has to do what he or she wants. The draft law is largely based on the experience of recent years. The legal framework on nuclear safety has been established in a number of major steps. At the end of the 1950s, there was a first design, which actually lasted forty years. In 1994, a new draft was drawn up, which also required changes after a number of years. Since 2009, there have been requests from the FANC to strengthen the legal framework, to adapt it, to evaluate it and to ensure that greater progress could be made in this area. I also understand that this step could not be taken since 2009. I am pleased that the Minister has dealt with the dossier in order to ensure that those changes are included in the draft. There have indeed been two resolutions on nuclear safety and the functioning of the FANC in 2007 and 2010, but that has not happened much in a very long time. However, they are now being used to an important extent to adjust the framework. In particular, this reflects a greater sense of responsibility in the management of this dossier: steps need to be taken. A second element is that in 2013 we ordered an IRRS mission to see what was going on with the policy. Mrs Temmerman referred briefly to the findings on the hydrogen inclusions in the power stations. The mission gave a plume to the FANC for the way it handled that file. Of course, this mission also produced a number of recommendations which we had to work on. The present draft provides a solution to three of these recommendations and a basis for the fourth recommendation is laid down. A first recommendation concerns the responsibility of the holder of the authorisation. Anyone who has a licence for a nuclear power plant must set up an internal physical control service in a number of cases. The principle remains, of course, that those who have the licence continue to bear that responsibility. In the past this has not been put forward very clearly in the law, but it is now enshrined in the draft by the government. That is a good thing, because it is first and foremost the licence holder who has to accept his responsibility and cannot shift it to an internal service. This internal service can do a lot of tasks, but the responsibility remains of course with the licence holder. A second element is the position of the FANC vis-à-vis that recognised body. This design ensures that a number of tasks can be carried out by a recognised institution, but only when it is specifically established for that purpose. We are talking specifically about Bel V. It prevents tasks from being delegated to other recognised institutions without a clear implementing decision being taken. Thirdly, when it comes to implementing a number of things, it is important that the FANC should also be able to give binding guidelines so that they can be adhered to. It also has the knowledge for that. The fourth element is that for which a basis is created, but which is not yet fully implemented. One of the mission's recommendations was that there should be a national policy on radiation protection. That recommendation has never been worked out in the past. This law makes it possible for this to be implemented and for a policy to be drawn up on a proposal from the FANC. There have indeed been proposals and amendments aimed at allowing the FANC only to give an opinion on that policy framework. Fortunately, however, they have not been taken into account, so that the FANC as a centre of knowledge can make the necessary progress in this area. We are, of course, looking forward to the way in which this will take shape. The given framework is an important framework. At the same time, we must also know that the main difference is made in the implementation of the framework, the so-called ARBIS. I understand that the Minister certainly intends to take the necessary steps in close consultation with Parliament, so that Parliament remains well involved. As you know, I am officially Vice-President, in practice co-chair and very often just chairman of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety. I'll be very happy to follow up on the file with you. Our group welcomes this draft. It indicates that there is a sense of responsibility, that there are cases in the evaluations and that experience on the field of work is being started. We are counting on this to be the method used in the coming years. We do not want to wait 40 years or 10 years. We want to adapt when necessary and take responsibility. Our group is pleased to support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u111	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, Mr Wollants, thank you for your comments. Mrs Temmerman's discussion is almost literally reflected in the committee's report, in particular the Government's response to the comments made. So I will not repeat that here and refer to the committee's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2322/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2322/6) The draft law has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u114	• 20 - Karin Temmerman cs (2322/7) Annex V.Part • 21 - Karin Temmerman cs (2322/7) • 22 - Karin Temmerman cs (2322/7) • 23 - Karin Temmerman cs (2322/7) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 12/1(n) • 24 - Karin Temmerman cs (2322/7) *** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u115	Decision of the Article-by-Article Review:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u116	Held: the vote on the amendments and on Articles 3 and 4. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 2, 5 to 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u117	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gilles Foret, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Emmanuel Burton, David Clarinval, Kattrin Jadin, Benoît Piedboeuf, Nele Lijnen, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u118	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1990/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1990/6) The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the maintenance of multimodal mobility in rural areas." The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to preserve multimodal mobility in rural areas". The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief oral statement on the written report which the services have produced very well. There is a problem, however, and I shall look immediately at Mr Foret... in the context of the title of this resolution, because at the beginning of the vote it was decided to change the name of this resolution. However, Mr President, the old name is still on the order of the day. The new name of the resolution will be mentioned in my personal statement, but as rapporteur I should like to point out that we are actually discussing the resolution today on the maintenance of multimodal mobility in rural areas. The committee discussed the text, initially with the title envisaged, on 16 November last year and 28 March this year. In his statement, Mr Foret explained his initiative and explained the various parts of the document that were requested and decided. I assume that this will happen again shortly. During the discussion amendments were tabled by several fellow Members. The first amendments were by Mrs Poncelet. She asked for at least one train per hour to be organised in the different directions. Then amendments were tabled by Mr Foret himself and a number of other Members of the House from the majority, including to amend the title of this resolution, as I said earlier, and to delete a number of articles and, on the other hand, to add a number of articles. That was also confirmed by Mr Raskin. I myself took the floor to re-table amendments on the issues which were deleted by the majority and also amendments to improve the train supply at the weekend. Mr Cheron thought this was an excellent and sensible initiative of the undersigned and supported me in his speech, which I could fully understand. I assume that this aspect will also be explained here. Mr Cheron said a new word during the discussion. Without wanting to raise a personal fact, Mr. Foret. He spoke of a "défore" of the text. A new and remarkable parliamentary word. Excuse me, you brought it up yourself. It's definitely worth mentioning. Finally, Mr Grovonius defended a number of amendments. I assume that she will defend it again, since those amendments were retabled. Then there was a suspension because the quorum was not reached, after which a vote was taken. The various amendments tabled by the majority were adopted by nine votes to four. The opposition amendments were rejected with the opposite result. The text was adopted by nine votes to four.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what was not our pleasant impression on reading the motion for a resolution as originally drafted by our colleague, Mr Foret? Mr Foret, a bold proposal because it seized a real social, economic and environmental challenge: mobility in our rural areas. We could almost talk about a slinging spirit in your leader, Mr. Foret. Demanding the maintenance or even improvement of the quality of rail service in our rural areas was bold. Do I have to point out that the Minister MR de la Mobility imposes savings of €3 billion on the railway and that, by the very admission of Infrabel, the Walloon secondary network will be the first to be affected by these savings? But, far from the fixed budgetary and ideological conceptions, Mr.Foret proposed, with courage, a dynamic and proactive approach to mobility. It seemed to have understood that if people are to stop using their cars, they must be offered enough trains, and that the community's investments will have a return effect not only for train users but also for the country as a whole. It seemed to have understood that the role of a State was to propose solutions to the isolation of the inhabitants of villages. In other words, Mr.Foret's initial resolution took the side of defending the public service no more or less. Bravo! [[Applause]] And to fulfill these tasks, Mr. Foret was not running away from his responsibilities. At that time! Isn't that right, Mr. Cheron? It is the SNCB and Infrabel, federal companies, that are best placed to provide sustainable transportation in rural areas, while ensuring the coherence of the country's different territories. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, was before the MR was called to order by his majority colleagues from the N-VA. Once again, what has been happening since the beginning of this Parliament has happened in the Committee on Infrastructure: the MR has responded to the demands of the N-VA in exchange for support for a text that is now completely hollow and soft. The majority's amendments completely distorted the text. While the original proposal affirmed the leading role of SNCB in rural transport, the final text proposes a reverse approach. Not only does this act justify savings and de-responsibility for the federal government, but it also transfers the burden of these savings to the Regions. The very title of the resolution no longer refers to SNCB. A new recital explains that it is normal for the savings imposed on SNCB to be made on rail links and for the demand to expand the supply of trains on weekends to disappear. A icing on the cake, the majority overturns the entire original philosophy of the text without a state of mind, since the resolution now encourages that the supply of trains should enter into a commercial logic, in other words, that it should be strengthened where the density of population is highest: finally, everywhere, except in rural areas, areas which are so dear to Mr Foret and the MR. Mr Foret, you have abandoned the fight for our fellow citizens who live in rural areas. In exchange, you seem to find your account in the relative and ephemeral glory of seeing a hollow text signed by your name and approved by the majority of this assembly. The resolution originally tabled defended the public service. The one that will probably be voted today, it, a commercial service of the SNCB. It's your choice, but it's not my group's, it's not mine. Nor is it the case of most of my opposition colleagues. That is why we have decided to resubmit a global amendment. This one, Mr. Foret, is none other than your original proposal, quite simply. I hope that you will still support your proposal, the one that you yourself wrote and filed when we had these exchanges. We did not change a single comma to this text, on which you had put your whole heart and which was the result of all the work you had done to place it. I say again: your first intention was the right one. Public service must be a correcting of inequalities; in the case of rail mobility in rural areas, it is even more so. It is a tool that meets the needs of public health, environmental health and economic development, all of which will benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, you will therefore understand that we will not be able to support the proposal as it stands. It justifies the setbacks and savings imposed on the SNCB Group. I hope that my dear colleague will be able to support our amendment, which is neither more nor less than his original text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u121	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mrs Grovonius, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution which will be put to the vote this afternoon is the result of a process of dynamic and voluntary reflection and discussion. That is how we work in the Committee on Infrastructure. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for both the opposition and the majority for having taken part in the very interesting debate on transport in rural areas. This proposal aims to preserve rail mobility, but also mobility in general. Multimodality, intermodality of means of transport in these low-density areas are indeed vital in terms of accessibility and economic development, in terms of social cohesion, in terms of road safety, in terms of the environment. Allow me to repeat the sentence that Mr.Belot gave in his political orientation statement in May 2016. I quote: "The organisation of a quality service in rural areas also creates a tangible link between these often out-of-town areas and the major centres." From this point of view, rail transport contributes to a balanced spatial planning policy and in doing so contributes to the cohesion of the different parts of the country. A good rail service in rural areas avoids, to many commuters, the temptation to stay in their cars until their final destination in the major employment centres. The minister was, of course, part of the government's commitment to support integrated public transport in rural areas. I come back, ladies and gentlemen, to the content of this motion for a resolution. As I explained in committee, we wanted to change the title of the proposal. Indeed, we wanted to focus on multimodal and intermodal mobility in rural areas. It was this interest that, together with my colleagues, prompted me to change the title. But the content of this proposal still has the original meaning of the motion for a resolution that I tabled, but with – it is true – the changes resulting from our debates in committee. Indeed, I have never hidden my wish for an open discussion, for dice not to be cast in advance and for us, together, to reach a consensus on the reality of transport in rural areas. Three axes of this proposal emerge. The first ensures that SNCB and Infrabel perform their public service mission perfectly in all regions of our country, including in rural areas, by optimizing service to the customer. Particular attention must be paid to the maintenance and maintenance of infrastructure and rolling stock and to the development of a sufficient and high-quality rail supply. As you know, having probably attended the various roadshows in the provinces, the new transportation plan provides for an improvement of 5%. The second axis of the motion for a resolution is to improve coordination between all rail and mobility players, with a view to ensuring an efficient multimodal offer. Mobility must be designed from door to door and not from station to station. Correspondence with regional public transport needs to be improved. It is important to work on intermodality of stations and stop points. The 2017 transport plan also takes account of this integrated mobility. The third axis of this motion for a resolution aims to make every effort to benefit from European subsidies, in particular for studies and major infrastructure projects on the trans-European transport network (TEN-T). Belgium is, as you know, crossed by three of the nine trans-European corridors (North-Baltic Sea, North-Mediterranean Sea and Rhine-Alpes). It is therefore important that these corridors can be integrated and supported, as passenger transport will benefit indirectly. These axes that I had initially integrated are strong. They have in no way been "deforested", denatured by the few amendments that my colleagues in the majority and I have tabled. I accept these amendments. I signed them. I did not just attend the tabling of amendments. So I take full responsibility for them. I regret, of course, the biased and distorted interpretation of my proposal by some. But I forgive you because I know that, in your heart, the proposal tabled today takes into account all our priorities. Even if you don't vote today, I know you're morally supporting me. It's the most important thing for me. I thank those who will support us and vote for the proposal that we have tabled, with the positive developments that have been made there. We are strongly committed to the ambitious vision of integrated and multimodal mobility proposed by our Government and our Minister for Mobility, François Bellot. Thank you, especially for the rural areas. The co-signed colleagues are behind me, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u122	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Foret for explaining his text again. As I said in committee, I think the original text is a good one. Most of our colleagues, especially those living in rural areas, can only support the importance of rail mobility and support the preservation and development of rail traffic in rural and suburban areas. When it comes to rail traffic between the provincial capitals and the capitals, account must be taken of the fact that those who come to the provincial capitals come from rural municipalities. From Heist-op-den-Berg, for example, one has to go via Aarschot or Leuven, or via Lier and Antwerp. The people who leave from Heist-op-den-Berg are therefore also in Leuven and Antwerp. This is therefore very important, also in order to avoid congestion in the provincial capitals and in the smaller cities. So your intentions were very good. You also say, Mr Foret, that mobility must be looked at from door to door and that the first and last mile is more important. Unfortunately, I have to say that your resolution has been undermined. If a majority member gets the message from the government that all this will not be paid and he is asked to amend his text a little bit, I can understand that. In view of the chronology, I note that your text was submitted on 18 July 2016. At that time, Minister Bellot, who took the oath on 18 April 2016, was competent to do so. I assume you were in contact with the Minister of your political party before submitting your text to Parliament. I find it difficult to imagine you submitting a text in your group without your Minister, who is responsible for it, agreeing to it. I regret that Minister Bellot is not here today, because he could shed some light on that. A minister must include resolutions in the annual discussion of the budget. If a Member of his political party submits a resolution or a recommendation, I assume that Minister is aware of it and has given his consent to its content. I understand that you have to compromise with the other government parties, but in fact this also says a lot about the strength of your minister in this area. If your own minister agreed to submit this text, but you were flagged back by your coalition partners, then I do not think that your minister in this majority is very much in his area of competence. That is actually the fundamental problem, Mr Foret. All my fellow Members, including the opposition, initially supported you, but they felt a little sorry for you, in the sense of: how far should we go to make a compromise possible for a resolution? One can lay the bar down, but how low do we have to lay it down before we have an agreement? Unfortunately, that has happened here. I am not saying that all the elements in your text are bad, absolutely not. It is essential that you make a recommendation in a resolution, but then suddenly at the second discussion everything is hollowed out. That is, for example, where you talk about the importance of rural mobility. You spoke of: "To make the offer more attractive over the weekend, to tap into segments other than residential/school and commuting/work traffic." I find that incredibly important. Of course, I can only judge for myself. If I want to go to Antwerp during the weekend, let me take the train, because with the car that is not good, because there is a low-emission zone there. But this is where it's gonna be deleted. It is incomprehensible that you do not think it is important to invest on the weekends. That is, however, fundamental. You will adopt another amendment later. My group, like other groups, has a proposal to strengthen the weekend offer. All studies show that there is a potential, that there is a growth margin. SNCB also made this clear when explaining the various transport plans proposed at regional level. In your initial text, there is enormous potential, but you allow it to be deleted. Understand who can understand. Once again, Mr Foret, why did you delete that, when you know that there is the potential, and the transport needs? Why do you allow it to be said that the weekend is no longer important in terms of mobility, certainly for the rural communities? I see that Mr Grovonius's amendment is being retabled. I believe it can be absolutely supported. I look forward to hearing your vote on that amendment. We can only regret, unless you and your majority adopt Mrs Grovonius's amendment, that you have an initial very good initiative... Let us be honest, a resolution but the status of a resolution, but certainly in the context of the discussion on the management agreement and the discussions on policy papers and mobility, we find it regrettable that you have undermined your text so much. That is why, if no changes are made, we will vote against it in the near future. We are in favour of improving mobility, rail mobility and multimodal mobility, including in rural municipalities, but the majority are taking us all seriously and laughing at the inhabitants of rural areas by putting this resolution on the agenda with that title and by making them happy with a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u123	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Geerts for his excellent report. I would then like to be in the footsteps of Mrs Grovonius, who spoke of gold because she explained what had happened. We have two Gilles Forets today. We have the Gilles Foret of 18 July 2016, which was more revolutionary than "resolutionary", when he sang for railway mobility in rural areas. I suspect he wanted to follow the CDH, which had filed a similar text. The aim was to compensate for the loss of profits of two or three billion SNCBs, to save the face, by issuing a resolution text when the government had been busy attacking rail links in rural areas for months. Mr.Foret came in July 2016 to defend rural areas and tabled an ambitious text, a very good text. Mrs Grovonius was right to table amendments that would restore Mr Foret's text. It makes a useful contribution by incorporating in the text all its elements of ambition. However, Mr Foret, in order to retain his name on the motion for a resolution, had had to abandon the title of the resolution, which had moved to preserve "rail mobility in rural areas" to preserve "multimodal mobility in rural areas". In other words, the federal state, which is not competent for what is not a railway, is magnificently "resolutionary" from here. Mr Foret, when I dared to speak of "deforestation", it was not only for the pleasure of making a good word - without raising the tension, Mr Miller, we must sometimes also please ourselves! - because I recalled the abandonment of the title and, therefore, the substance of an ambitious text. "Everything must change so that nothing changes", it will please Elio Di Rupo, who is a great lover of Marguerite Yourcenar, and he is right... No, it is Tomasi di Lampedusa, but it could have been written by Marguerite Yourcenar. [[Laughs]] So it's Tomasi di Lampedusa, author of the book Le Guépard. In short, "everything has to change so that nothing changes." The amendments proposed by the majority's partners, especially the N-VA, because I saw clearly that the Limburg branch of the CD&V had been somewhat revolting, clearly showed that the objective was to reverse the principles. Indeed, the two basic ideas that were removed from Mr.Foret's text were very simple. First, the leading role of SNCB has been diminished. Therefore, the work to be carried out on regional transport companies is postponed. Above all, Mr Foret, the policy that has been imposed on you is a management linked to demand and not to supply. This is therefore a completely different way of contemplating the future of railways in rural areas. Colleagues, we must not be mistaken about what happened. In July 2016, Mr.Foret tried to rehabilitate the MR and, incidentally, the majority in view of everything that had been detrigued for months or even the beginning of this legislature, with a view to regaining some credibility in terms of rail policy in rural areas. The best proof of Mr Foret's reversal - and this is very clear when we see what has been withdrawn from the texts - is the amendment tabled by Mrs Grovonius and other opposition colleagues. In a nutshell, my colleague, it would be enough for this majority to come together again. Mr. Foret, I invite you to become a third character. You were the first to want to make a revolution in rural areas. You were the second one who, in the run-up, was forced to accept intolerable amendments. I invite you to take back and be the third Gilles Foret, the one who will be able to restore his honour and his original text, in favour of rail in rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to speak because what we experienced in the Committee on Infrastructure was surreal. It can be seen that this surrealism continues in plenary. A little history. In November 2014, the CDH tabled a motion for a resolution entitled "Proposal for a resolution to preserve rail traffic in rural areas". This resolution is postponed several times because the majority wants to come with its own text. It lasted two years. Finally, after this deadline, we come back with the text and we end up discussing these rural areas. In July 2016, Mr Foret tabled a new text entitled "Proposal for a resolution to preserve rail mobility in rural areas". It's almost a copy-paste. It's exactly the same thing. We're totally there. Is this some sort of recovery? We can see that this text is very much in line with the text tabled two years earlier. It was really a missed opportunity to see this convergence supported by unanimity of all the colleagues present in the committee and, as a result, also in the plenary. One missed the opportunity to have unanimity on a text that was quite in line with public service in rural areas. In March 2017, the proposal comes back to committee and that is where the majority tabled amendments that completely empty the motion for a resolution of its substance. My colleagues have said this on several occasions, "emptying of its substance, deforestation" regardless of the vocabulary. Indeed, we no longer have the first meaning that had been deposited. It is quite different and we have even reversed the principles defended by the first text, so by Mr Foret. In these amendments, it is very clear that the N-VA is not concerned with rural areas at all. This view is reinforced by the idea that one of the amendments dissociates: the frequency of service to a link is logically higher where the demand for local mobility is highest. So we can see that it is demand that causes supply, not the other way around. It is well known, however, that a true public service must offer a service of the same quality for all, regardless of the region in which one lives. It's really encouraging a very bad vicious circle. We are far from the expected public service. Therefore, we will not support this draft resolution at all. On the other hand, as has been said, we will fully support the amendment tabled by Mrs Grovonius, which is a return to the original text which, moreover, joins the first text which the CDH had tabled in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u125	Mr. President, thank you. I was waiting for my colleagues to complete their analysis of the debates that took place in the Infrastructure Committee. I would like to supplement or modify some of the comments that have been made. Mrs Poncelet, you tabled a motion for a resolution two years ago and, indeed, it was part of the preservation of rural transport. You do not have a monopoly on this issue. But I told you that your proposal was not well under way because, in the recitals and developments, you were attacking the government's work. If your goal was to reach consensus, it was wrong. Subsequently, I undertook to come back with a motion for a resolution, one of which includes part of yours. I do not copy and paste the terms contained in the government agreement, which aims to maintain transportation capacity in rural areas. That is the very essence of the proposal. Two other axes were not found: those of multimodality and intermodality, an important vision for transport in our country. It is important to involve actors other than SNCB and Infrabel. We do not defy federal responsibilities, we simply seek better cooperation between the different levels of power, for efficient and integrated transportation. We must take responsibility and be pragmatic, like Minister Bellot, in seeking alternative sources of funding, including European grants for trans-European networks. These two axes were not included in your proposal. It is better to set aside a banked proposal at the base to recreate something strong and engaging. I register falsely with regard to the biased and erroneous interpretation of my colleagues. If you read the proposal, you will find that all the basic elements are there. Indeed, changes have taken place, because the discussion must be progressive and progressive and not frozen. Therefore, there have been ancillary adaptations. The substance of the resolution remains important for rail transport in rural areas. Just read and be objective. I ask you to reconsider your commitment not to vote on this motion for a resolution. It would be a shame for rural areas that need your support. If you have the opportunity to change your mind, I will accept with great interest, on behalf of the rural but also urban areas, because they are obviously complementary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u126	Mr Foret, I invite you to listen very carefully when we intervene. When I talked about copy-paste, I was talking about the title you had chosen for your first text. It was exactly the same words we used two years earlier. When I told you that we were talking about unanimity of votes and that your text would have collected it, I was talking about the content of your first text. There, you have completely turned things around in your disfavor, since you will not win unanimity. So you say the things that fix you and you manipulate words like that. Surrealism continues to manifest itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u127	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u128	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u129	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u130	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Blanchart, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Stéphane Crusnière, Daniel Senesael, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Benoit Hellings, Olivier Maingain, Dirk Van der Maelen, Marco Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u131	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2421/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2421/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u132	Mr President, at its meeting on 25 April, the Committee on External Relations discussed and voted on the proposal for a resolution on possible violence against LGTBQI in Chechnya. The proposal indicates that the Chamber would decide to condemn all possible violations of the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenders, questions and intersexuals in Chechnya and to use all the levers of parliamentary diplomacy to condemn such violations. It is also proposed to request the Federal Government to condemn all possible violations of LGTBQI's rights in Chechnya and to raise the issue in European and international fora, as well as to ask the Chechen and Russian authorities to conduct an independent investigation, to bring the culprits to justice and to put an end to all forms of legislation and practices that discriminate on grounds of sexual orientation. The applicant of the proposal, Mrs Grovonius, points out that for a number of years the Chamber has been paying particular attention to this issue, both in Belgium and in Europe and in the world. For example, on 23 June 2016, the Chamber adopted a motion for a resolution, signed by numerous political groups, on the depenalisation of homosexuality in the world, asking the federal government to pay particular attention to the rights of LGTBQI members in the political dialogue with the states with which Belgium maintains diplomatic relations. Several members of the committee spoke. Mr An Capoen thanked the authors for the work they had done and pointed out that her group would support the proposal. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux also thanked the authors. He stressed the need for the Court to adopt a principled approach to the protection of LGTBQI's rights. In his view, incidents such as those in Chechnya must continue to be dealt with vigorously. In my speech, I agreed with the other speakers. My group will fully support this resolution. Mrs Annemie Turtelboom also wishes to express the support of her group for the proposal for a resolution. The text of the resolution is already broadly satisfactory for the speaker. In order to remedy some shortcomings, it endorses some of the amendments which were explained during the article-by-article discussion. Mr Wouter De Vriendt thanked the authors of the motion for a resolution for an early vote. In order to complete the text, the speaker endorsed a number of amendments which were explained during the article-by-article discussion. Mr Benoit Hellings noted that human rights protection in Chechnya and throughout the Russian Federation had collapsed. As early as 2014, the speaker's group denounced the human rights situation in Russia. The speaker called for the future to be vigilant. The representative of the Foreign Office also expressed his full support for the proposal. Some amendments were discussed in committee. An amendment seeks to clarify that the Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta should be regarded as an independent newspaper and not as an opposition newspaper, a second to point out that Belgium, through the Minister of Foreign Affairs, does indeed call for an independent investigation, including possible convictions and compensation for the victims. Another amendment seeks to refer to the statements made by Mrs Mogherini at European level on this subject, another to clarify that, although the violations of the rights of the LGBTQI in Chechnya are particularly serious, this is unfortunately the case everywhere in the Russian Federation. Another amendment seeks to ask the federal government to turn to the Russian authorities, rather than to the Russian and Chechen authorities, which are involved in the interstate dialogue with Belgium and which are responsible for the Chechen Republic, an autonomous republic of the Russian Federation. The whole proposal of the resolution, as amended and corrected, was adopted unanimously. On behalf of my own group, I would like to add the following elements. The independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta and Human Rights Watch Russia informed us that Chechnya is conducting a brutal campaign against homosexual men, actively and systematically tracking them down, locking them up, prosecuting and even killing them. Over a hundred men would have been arrested by the authorities in the last few weeks because they are homosexual or because there is only one suspicion that they would be gay. Three men would have died, too. This is a flagrant violation of human rights. Furthermore, our group finds it extremely regrettable that representatives of the Russian Republic are trying to condone the situation and that Russia is reacting evasively. Chechnya is known as a very conservative country on LGBTQI rights, but also Russia, of which Chechnya is a partial republic, denies LGBTQI rights, with discriminatory legislation, despite the fact that it has undertaken to protect its rights through various international conventions. My group strongly condemns this aggression and discrimination against the LGBTQI community. Minister Reynders and the EU High Representative, Mogherini, have also condemned practices and called for an international independent investigation. Our country has lobbied strongly within the Equal Rights Coalition and the Council of Europe to raise this violation. This is an important first step. My group would like to ask that both Belgium and the EU use all its instruments to continue to systematically defend and promote LGBTQI rights. The rights of this community must be fully addressed in our foreign policy. My group thanks the authors of the proposal for this rapid discussion and will therefore support this important resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u133	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is unfortunately not the first time that we have discussed in plenary the discrimination and violence against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. Homosexuality has remained a taboo in many countries around the world. We must not go far to see that this taboo remains whole within the European Union and justifies, with different gradations, acts or legislation unacceptable to the universality of human rights. The fight against all discrimination has long been a priority of Belgian diplomacy but also of the House of Representatives. I am pleased that our Assembly has been particularly attentive for several years, in particular to issues of discrimination related to sexual orientation, whether in our country, in Europe (both through the European Union and the Council of Europe) or more broadly in the world. Thus, in June 2016, a resolution for the decriminalization of homosexuality in the world was adopted here. So, I know. Some will say that a resolution alone does not regulate anything. We cannot react whenever a violation of human rights around the world occurs. I will answer with a simple question. Could such an example be even discussed in the plenary of the Duma. The answer is clearly "no". I am therefore proud to live in a country where, in the House of Representatives, a subject of cruel news is being seized. I am proud that this text, of which I have taken the initiative, was able to receive urgent attention on its treatment and that it was adopted unanimously in the Committee on External Relations on Tuesday. I would therefore like to thank all my colleagues for their support and co-signature, as well as my colleague, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, who defended this resolution in committee, while I was a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It dealt precisely with the situation in Chechnya and adopted a resolution denouncing the human rights situation in Chechnya and calling on Russia to react. As we know, in Chechnya, the Republic of the Russian Caucasus led by an iron hand by Vladimir Putin's faithful Ramzan Kadyrov, the authorities continue to maintain a climate of fear vis-à-vis many members of society (women, NGOs, sexual minorities). The Council of Europe resolution denounces a large-scale persecution by the State of a targeted group because of its sexual orientation, fearing that the statute of limitations will eventually grant de facto impunity to perpetrators of human rights violations. This text calls, in particular, for the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, inter alia, in cases in which Russia has been sentenced for failure to investigate effectively. In my view, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe will have to follow up on this in the near future. Indeed, the facts dealt with in the text before you today go beyond what could be imagined since the end of the Second World War. If we were already aware, alas, of the human rights violations, in particular the rights of LGBT people that exist in many states around the world, including Russia, the news shows that there is no limit to the horror in this area. In early April, the Russian independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta revealed the abduction of hundreds of gay men in Chechnya. These abducted persons would be subjected to treatment and torture intended to make them reveal the identity of other people – we are witnessing delation here, colleagues – revelations that are all the more unacceptable in a country where it is known that simply displaying their sexual orientation is, in many cases, to be put to death, with the greatest impunity. According to the newspaper, these men are reportedly detained in former police premises near Argoun. Such abductions would be in response to requests from the Gay Russia group to organize rallies around the Russian Federation. Since then, some abducted men have reportedly been returned to their families because their sexual orientation has not been confirmed by the kidnappers and/or because a ransom has been paid for their release. If it is confirmed, this information reminds us of the darkest times in our history. These acts deserve to be condemned as harshly as possible and, above all, as the Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs has rightly pointed out, that an independent investigation should be carried out in order to identify and prosecute the perpetrators. For their part, the Chechen authorities and Russia deny the facts by affirming the absence of LGBT within their country. Don't you realize that? Civil society has launched several initiatives to address this unsustainable news. For example, Amnesty International has launched a petition, and many young people, including in Belgium, are mobilizing on social networks. Like these initiatives, it is up to our government to condemn these violations if they continue. The government must urge the Russian and Chechen authorities to stop these atrocities and to prosecute those who committed them and, more broadly, to stop any discrimination based on sexual orientation in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and international obligations in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with a confession this evening, namely that the N-VA Group was actually taken at speed in the case of this resolution. However, that may be too much irony for this day. We could have just as well signed this resolution, because we fully agree with the content. The urgency of last Thursday has speeded up the entire resolution, which has prevented us from doing so. Immediately after the first reports of the Russian newspaper, my colleague Piet De Bruyn, a Flemish Member of Parliament, and myself as the representative of the N-VA-Room Group, issued a press release asking Minister Reynders to condemn the practices in Chechnya. We called for a response as soon as possible. The Minister responded the same day. The authors of this resolution were perhaps inspired by our press release, because they are very similar in substance. Not only does the resolution express the horror of the events in Chechnya, it is also part of the resolution that we adopted in June 2016 in connection with the depenalisation of homosexuality worldwide. The N-VA Group will therefore vote in favour of this resolution with the minor adjustments that we made in committee on Tuesday. Even though the N-VA and the PS often have few interfaces, when it comes to defending LGBTQI rights, everyone in this hemisphere in the N-VA will always find a partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u135	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed this issue in yesterday's Foreign Affairs Committee, since a series of questions on this issue have been asked. Minister, Madam Minister, for the time being, I have had the opportunity to ask you a question about the situation in Chechnya, the abuses against LGBTQI people and the existence of rallies against some 100 people. Many international associations defending LGBTQI people around the world, as well as many NGOs, have reported on the abuses mentioned, as my colleague Blanchart said, in the Novaya Gazeta newspaper. The newspaper reports on rallies and crimes against members of the community. I welcome, on behalf of the Reform Movement, the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already taken steps to verify the authenticity of this information. It remains a challenge to assess the true extent of the problem, as well as to learn the details of the facts. But it is clear that persecution of the male homosexual community, regardless of whether its members are known or suspected of belonging to it, is taking place. I regret this with great sadness. I thank Mr Blanchart, and the PS Group at the outset, for preparing this motion for a resolution, which I have signed with great pleasure. This was the first time, my dear Philippe, that you gave me the opportunity to co-sign a motion for a resolution with the PTB. This is certainly not going to happen very often, but I think that when it comes to human rights, we don't sniff about the associations we can do. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that the Chechen authorities seem to be complicit in the mere fact that they allow such abuses to occur. I recall that Ramzan Kadyrov's comments are unequivocal about his respect for people in the LGBTQI community. He replied that there were no persecutions against these people, because, according to him, there were simply no homosexuals in Chechnya. It's completely hallucinating. A radically homophobic stance cannot be clearer. Mr President, Belgium takes a clear position on the universalism and indivisibility of human rights, which include the rights of homosexuals. It is imperative that investigations into the perpetrators and even planners of these acts of torture be conducted officially so that all victims are recognized in their most fundamental rights. The Belgian Government has transmitted the information in its possession to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg and to our representation in Moscow to help complete this dossier. We must be vigilant with regard to the Russian authorities, in agreement with the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights, to honour their international human rights commitments and to cooperate in all efforts to put an end to these monstrosities committed on Chechen territory and beyond in Russia. It is imperative, in the view of the Reform Movement, that all victims be heard and that each of their fundamental rights, such as access to adequate legal aid, be granted to them. Let us recall that our country considers this matter urgent and fundamental. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that last year we voted for a resolution on the decriminalization of homosexuality, so that it becomes a priority of our foreign policy. In this sense, on 17 May, we will welcome, under the auspices of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, but also federated entities, the IDAHO 2017 forum, which will bring together nearly two hundred political figures around the theme of the rights of homosexuals. I would like to recall that eighty States continue to persecute LGBTQI people with prison sentences ranging from 10 years to life, even the death penalty. It is in Africa that the freedom of homosexuals is most violated: thirty-nine out of fifty-three countries still penalize homosexual relations. Four of them still apply the death penalty: Mauritania, Sudan, Nigeria and Somalia. Saudi Arabia, Iran and Yemen also apply it. It is therefore not, unfortunately, that Chechnya behaves in a monstrous manner towards homosexuals. Belgium must continue to be exemplary in the fight against all discrimination against them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u136	Mr President, in Chechnya, people with a non-classical sexual orientation are often victims of family accounts and of general social and, above all, political hostility. Homosexuals are outlaws in the Caucasian country. It's shocking that there would even be concentration camps. We were just discussing the non-existent rights of women in Saudi Arabia in plenary. We should not draw a picture of the rights of homosexuals in that country. These kinds of developments should make us think. Human rights are a matter of course in our country. Unfortunately, that is not always the case and everywhere. In many places in the world we see how wrong populists and authoritarian figures feed hatred and intolerance, in which people with a different opinion or a so-called deviant mode are pushed into the pit, and in this way they believe to increase their own power and authority, which is then sold as standing up for individuality and national pride. We must also be vigilant in our own countries in this respect. Colleagues, this resolution, which came at the initiative of the PS, comes just in time to wake us up again and to give some concrete recommendations to the government. Our group strongly supports this text. There's no way to bargain on human rights. Human rights must be defended and strengthened across party boundaries, and we must not be ashamed to promote these values throughout the world. With this text, we are making this very clear towards Chechnya, which clearly does not have a great deal of heart. This is what potentials count on: that the international community is silent and relativistic; we have already talked about this this afternoon, so that steps are always taken in the violation of human rights. The Chechen regime is hiding behind the absurd statement that there would be no homosexuals in the region and that therefore they cannot be prosecuted. Such statements would be almost laughable, should they not have such devastating effect on the lives of many Chechen homosexuals and lesbians, on their friends and on their families. The fact that the government does not want to openly admit that people are being prosecuted, but that they are being prosecuted, is appalling. Thanks to the resolution, which I hope will be unanimously supported by majority and opposition amendments, Belgium is once again building on the credibility of our commitment to human rights throughout the world. An independent investigation into the crimes in Chechnya is therefore absolutely necessary, in order to know who is involved at which levels and who is trying to cover up what. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for the strong signal we are sending here today. I expect the government to continue to work hard at European level and through the United Nations for justice for the victims of such injustice. Over the last few days, our country's reputation with the pro-vote for Saudi Arabia in the Women's Committee of the UN Human Rights Council has been severely crushed. We can begin to correct this by strongly defending the rights of the people of Chechnya.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u137	I call Mr De Vriendt. Mr De Vriendt, you do not wish to speak? You were registered, but that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u138	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the main author of this resolution, my colleague Philippe Blanchart, not only for taking this initiative with other colleagues, including Mr Van der Maelen and others, but also for taking it quickly. I congratulate him for having obtained from his group leader the urgency of the House for an immediate review of this text. Indeed, the information we have received from Chechnya goes beyond any understanding of the nature and extent of the horrors perpetrated against the LGBT community. I also welcome the support of your resolution. I would have liked to be one of the signatories, but it has been extremely successful. Technically, that was therefore not possible, but we are of course very much in this resolution. What seems important to me in this process is that once again it was done very quickly and that it may eventually have an impact. We know that this is especially important: to stop this massacre, these harassments and to ensure that the perpetrators of these crimes, which are hate crimes as described in our own codes and laws, when they are of such magnitude as we know in Chechnya, must in my view be considered as crimes against humanity and that their perpetrators can be held accountable and prosecuted. I am pleased to hear that the Belgian Government has transmitted a series of information to our representation in Moscow. I believe that the approach to Moscow must be firm and immediate. This issue will indeed have to be followed up at the level of the courts that have jurisdiction over this issue. Others here, like Jean-Jacques Flahaux, recalled that in other countries, too, it was a crime to be LGBT and that some states had included this in their texts and codes. Regrettably, the rights and fundamental freedoms of LGBT people have been reduced. It is up to us to be attentive to the defence of these rights and freedoms wherever they are threatened. My group will, of course, support this resolution and ensure that the proposals and recommendations contained therein can quickly be translated into concrete action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for several weeks now terrifying news has come from Chechnya concerning the persecution of homosexuals. NGOs report that hundreds of men are imprisoned in secret prisons and tortured to give the names of other homosexuals. These facts are reported by men who have been released. At least three men were reportedly killed in Chechnya. The Chechen government reacted by explaining that homosexuality did not exist in their country. They call on their fellow citizens to denounce their loved ones. We need a signal. We are talking about unacceptable facts. That is why we are joining this initiative. We have co-signed a text calling for an independent investigation by the Russian authorities. If the facts are proven, they should be condemned. We know, of course, that it is not through such resolutions that we will effectively advance human rights. It is above all thanks to a dynamic in Russia itself that this will happen. It is through the struggle within societies that rights are conquered. It is in this sense that the PTB supports the Russian LGBT network, the Russian LGBT Network, which is fighting on the spot for LGBT rights. International solidarity actions, for example by organisations such as ILGA, are also important. The brutality that homosexuals face is shocking and also shows the vulnerability of LGBT people. Unfortunately, Chechnya is no exception. The resolution mentions Uganda and Russia, where their rights are not respected. But in no less than 75 countries, homosexuality is punishable by imprisonment and, in 13 states, by the death penalty. My numbers may differ a little from Mr. Flahaux's. These include Saudi Arabia, one of Belgium's preferred trading partners. In fact, we had the opportunity to speak earlier about our government's hypocritical attitude towards it. As much as the abuses we are talking about in Chechnya are intolerable, as much as their instrumentalisation for anti-Russian geopolitical agenda reasons would also be unacceptable. But I guess no one's had that afterthought. So I'm reassured. I would like to take this opportunity to add one element or the other. If your life is in danger in your country of origin because of your sexual orientation, it is not surprising that you are fleeing this country. But the fortress Europe is designed in such a way as to make it difficult for you and for the thousands of others who are fleeing poverty. Following the agreement with Turkey, refugees remain stranded in a country where LGBT discrimination is common. If you are one of the lucky ones who nevertheless reach Europe, you will be subjected to a battery of tests and interrogations during which you will have to prove to be a true homosexual. In addition, some Eastern European countries have a fairly challenging reputation for how these tests are carried out. As far as Belgium is concerned, we can ask ourselves the question of procedure, because often the Western vision of homosexuality does not correspond to that of the country from which these persecuted people originate. For example, asylum seekers must answer intrusive questions in places they do not necessarily know, do not dare to attend, do not have the means to attend or do not want. In refugee centres, the situation of LGBT people is quite delicate. In Belgium, we need a truly humane asylum policy that really helps people in emergency situations. We need to be consistent both in our international positions and at the national level. Of course, we support this resolution, but we must also be able to sweep through its door, even if the situations are not comparable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u140	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u141	Mr President, on the order of business. I know that the Foreign Minister was apologized for Question Time. I'd like to ask you and the services to check his availability today. I'm declaring myself. In the meantime, we have received a press release from the Foreign Minister on the debate that has just taken place. Our group notes that the versions on this issue are evolving. Yesterday, the Foreign Minister said he was not aware of anything. Just now the Prime Minister made it a question of diplomacy, administration and ministry, and now there is a version of Minister Reynders, who says he was not personally aware of it. That is a very different story from yesterday on the committee. The issue concerns us all. So I would ask you to check during the votes whether the Foreign Minister is still available, or in the short term, for a meeting of the External Relations Committee, where questions need to be asked. The question arises as to who did and who did not know and at what time. I do not want to refer directly to the articles in the Rules of Procedure, but I would ask you to examine the availability of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u142	Mr Calvo, let me first give you a factual answer. As I know, Mr Reynders is currently in Luxembourg for a meeting. On the question of whether it is available now, I think the answer is no. I don't mind asking. I hope that we will receive another message about this during our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u143	The Conference of Presidents of 26 April 2017 shall postpone until 30 June 2017 the deadline for the submission of the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. The Conference of Presidents of 26 April 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to postpone the final date for the tabling of the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and at the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat, by 30 June 2017 at the latest. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? (No) That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u144	At the request of the authors, I propose the motion for a resolution (Mrs Annemie Turtelboom, Mr Tim Vandenput, Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Patrick Dewael) on the harmful interference by certain Gulf States in the free exercise of Islamic worship in Belgium, No. 2365/1, to be referred to the External Relations Commission. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on External Relations the motion for a resolution (Mrs Annemie Turtelboom, Mr Tim Vandenput, Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Patrick Dewael) on the harmful interference of certain Gulf States in the free exercise of Islamic worship in Belgium, No 2365/1. This proposal was previously sent to the Justice Commission. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Justice. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u145	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u146	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2426, tabled by Mrs Wouters and myself and co-signed by Mrs Pas, deals with Zaventem airport. For that proposal, I would ask for urgency. I believe that this proposal will be discussed as soon as possible. After all, our proposal provides a solution to airport problems. I therefore call for the urgency of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, Mr Vuye is asking for the urgency of the proposal. 2426 over the airport of Zaventem. We shall give our opinion on this request for urgency in the usual way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u148	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 April 2017, I also propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Kristof Calvo) to amend the Corporate Code in order to grant the shareholders of the NVs and the bvba's double voting rights, No. 2431/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u149	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 April 2017, I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre and Kristof Calvo) amending the Company Code, aimed at allowing the granting of a double voting right to shareholders of SAs and SPRLs, No 2431/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u150	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u151	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending Article 36a of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data, No. 2405/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending Article 36bis of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy in respect of the processing of personal data, No. 2405/1 was tabled. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. We shall be expressing our opinion on the question in the usual way, but the tradition in the meantime wants the government to motivate the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the urgent procedure is requested, given the legal gap in the legality of certain types of processing of personal data by police services, in particular for data from public administrations databases. The bill fills this gap by providing for an explicit exemption from obtaining sectoral committee approval for the federal authority. Given also the operational importance of these data flows, it is in the interest of the police services to have a clear legal framework as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u153	In reply to Mr Calvo's question, ladies and gentlemen, it appears that Minister Reynders is still abroad, namely in Luxembourg, and that he will not be back in Brussels until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u154	Thank you, Mr President, for checking this out. I believe that the chairman of the committee is also abroad at the moment. As far as our group is concerned, it is important to hear Mr Reynders as soon as possible. You say he'll be back in the country from tomorrow. That's normal, Luxembourg is not far. So, by definition, he can return very quickly. In the light of the information provided on the eve, that seems to me to be crucial. Perhaps you could take the initiative in this matter? I believe that a rapid meeting of the External Relations Commission is crucial. I would like to explain that, because a number of colleagues have not yet been present. Initially, the Deputy Prime Minister indicated that he was not aware of anything. We have just heard from the Prime Minister that it is a question of diplomacy, of administration. In the meantime, that version has been updated in its own press release. I think it is important for Parliament to know as soon as possible who was aware of what and whether the Deputy Prime Minister's cabinet played a role in this, yes or no. If the Deputy Prime Minister is in the country tomorrow, our group proposes to convene the Committee on External Relations tomorrow and to hear the Minister. That seems to us to be a very good and important idea, following today's debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the request to convene the Committee on External Relations. The driving factor - a lot has been said about current issues - is the attitude of Belgium which has enabled Saudi Arabia to integrate the Commission on Women's Rights into the United Nations, which in itself already constitutes violence against unheard-of women! The Prime Minister said he was sorry. But evil is done and for a long time! On the other hand, I am somewhat surprised that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs clearly did not say the same thing. In addition, in committee, Mr Reynders gave evidence that seems to be contradicted by the communiqué that was made today. Did Mr. Reynders lie to escape his responsibility? This is a very important issue which we will have to discuss as soon as possible in the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u156	Mr President, sp.a also supports this question. It is an important issue, because we, as a country, have not taken such a good turn. We should not rely on press releases, but should hear from the members of the government themselves what has actually happened. It will not be enough simply to send out a press release containing what has been thought. It is necessary that we, as Members of Parliament, should be able to examine the matter on the substance. We therefore support the request to convene the committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u157	Mr President, it was very clear that various rather contradictory versions had been expressed during the oral questions. Yesterday, we heard a foreign minister say that he was not aware of it, but that he was covering his diplomats. Today, we heard a Prime Minister saying that he knew about it, but that he did not cover his diplomats. I think it would be appropriate to invite the Minister for Foreign Affairs to committee, in the most urgent way possible. Today, it was found that not only was the Prime Minister already struggling to hold his troops within the government, but he was obviously struggling to do so within his own party. It seems to me urgent that we have a debate in this Parliament. I believe that Mr Reynders has taken a long distance from the truth, and that the operation "we're going to charge the lampist" is completely launched. The diplomat's name will normally be launched in ten days. It's the tradition: "Hop! It was the diplomat who made the mistake." That way, we can hit the diplomat. It's kind of a tradition here in the government. It is important to have political responsibilities. The Prime Minister succeeded, just now the prowess of responding for seven or eight minutes without mentioning his Minister of Foreign Affairs. This must be done, however, in such an important debate! I think it's time for this minister to come and explain himself. Colleagues, you have the full support of the PTB Group that will support this proposal to bring the Foreign Minister back to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u158	Mr. Chairman, for my part, and I do not think I am the only one, I have found no contradiction between what the Prime Minister and Minister Reynders have said. Now it is clear, and it is entirely legitimate, that if some want to rest the question, they will do so in the Committee on External Relations. It meets on Tuesday and will be able to address them as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u159	Mr President, I agree with the proposal of the group leader of the MR. We have scheduled a meeting of the External Relations Committee at 10 a.m. on Tuesday morning. There's a lot on the agenda. Unfortunately, the committee chairman is not here today, but I am sure he will agree to continue this debate immediately on Tuesday morning, the first day after the weekend. I do not go into the content of the debate at all, but the Committee on External Relations allows ample time to debate everything. Let's do that at the shortest possible time. As far as we're concerned, it's ten o'clock on Tuesday morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u160	Mr President, Mr Ducarme understood what he wanted to understand. I read the press release from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as reported by Belga. The minister said that he would propose a new procedure to the small ministerial committee tomorrow. Evidence that there is more than just a disorder, more than a problem. That Mr Reynders, from Luxembourg, feels obliged today to say that he is going to propose a new procedure from tomorrow, is that he understood that there had been a problem at least within his ministry and perhaps even within his cabinet. So, yes, we are entitled, without delay, to know the reality of the facts. Whether or not Mr Ducrame likes it, we have not had any consistent versions between the version given in response by Mr Reynders in the Committee on External Relations yesterday and what was said by the Prime Minister today. So, Tuesday, 10:00, yes, but certainly as a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u161	Mr President, I can support the fact that it is Tuesday at 10 a.m. but, in the Committee on External Relations, there was the consideration of a whole series of proposals, I think, without the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Let us be clear and agree. Tuesday at 10 a.m.: examination of the situation arising from the vote in the United Nations, obviously in the presence of Minister Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u162	Mr President, I have two comments to make. Mr Ducarme, if Ministers Reynders said yesterday that he was completely unaware of this, but he is already correcting it today by saying that he was not aware of it personally, then it is logical that Parliament should stick to it. If the Prime Minister has just said that this is a matter for the Ministry and diplomacy, then it is normal for a Parliament to ask what the role of the Deputy Prime Minister's cabinet was. Some groups have just said that these issues are too important to leave to diplomats only, but in a press release the Deputy Prime Minister suggests that the procedures should be adjusted, even though the diplomats have worked professionally. Our group is therefore very curious. It is quite logical that we should get on with it as quickly as possible. If it is proposed to do so on Tuesday morning, then we agree. I have the same question as Mrs Onkelinx, in particular that the Minister is present, because I do not want to hear from Mr Reynders in the next few days. We know him that he is not available. Is there an agreement to allow the committee meeting to take place on Tuesday in the presence of the Minister? Mr President, I would also ask you to ask the Deputy Prime Minister for a specific timeline on this issue. Who's been in touch with and when? What happened at the diplomatic level? What happened at the cabinet level? If we can reach that agreement, our group can accept that point at 10 a.m. on Tuesday morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u163	Mr Calvo, I propose that I contact the chairman of the External Relations Committee today. He is responsible for organising the work. Of course, I won't just tell him he's being asked. I will try to present the views of one and the other in very objective terms. I understand that everyone agrees to convene the External Relations Committee at 10.15 p.m. on Tuesday. It may be appropriate for the Foreign Minister to be present. I'll let him know about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u164	Vote on Amendment No 11 by Julie Fernandez Fernandez cs on Article 3. (2320/8) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Julie Fernandez Fernandez cs to Article 3. (2320/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[29]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 12 by Julie Fernandez Fernandez cs on Article 3. (2320/8) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Julie Fernandez Fernandez cs to Article 3. (2320/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[20]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Jadin voted against. Mr Blanchart has voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Julie Fernandez Fernandez cs on Article 20. (2320/8) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Julie Fernandez Fernandez cs to Article 20. (2320/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 106 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2320/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2320/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2293/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2293/4) Mrs Capoen voted in favour. Mr Lachaert also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u167	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 3. (2322/7) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 3. (2322/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 21 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 4. (2322/7) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 4. (2322/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Beke voted against. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 4. (2322/7) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 4. (2322/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 50 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 23 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 4. (2322/7) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 4. (2322/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[41]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 24 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 12/1(n). (2322/7) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 12/1(n). (2322/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 78 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 52 Abstensions Total 131 Total (...): I voted in favour, Mr President!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u169	Mrs Lanjri voted in favour. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2322/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2322/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u170	Vote on Amendment No 9 of Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs on the requests. (1990/7) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs to the applications. (1990/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 50 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u171	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 76 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1990/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1990/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u172	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2421/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2421/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-27-54-plenair-ip165x.u173	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 4 May 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 4 May 2017. I propose that the discussion of the draft law on the military programming of investments for the period 2016-2030 (2137/1-6) be postponed to the plenary session of 11 May 2017. I suggest that you defer the discussion of the military investment programming bill for the period 2016-2030 (2137/1-6) to the plenary session of May 11, 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The amended agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda, as amended, was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 4 May 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 4 May 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
