ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, He died on 5 January in Tervuren, 69 years old, Minister of State Luc Coene. Luc Coene was born in Ghent on March 11, 1947. After his Greek-Latin humaniora at the St. Barbara College, he obtained a degree in Economics from Ghent University, after which he completed a postgraduate degree at the College of Europe. Luc Coene started his career where he would end it more than 40 years later: at the National Bank of Belgium. From 1973 to 1976, he was an advisor to the Study Service, and from 1976 to 1979 advisor to the International Agreement Service. From 1979 to 1985 he worked at the International Monetary Fund in Washington, as an advisor to the Belgian director, Jacques de Groote, who became his mentor and with whom he would remain closely associated throughout his life. In January 1985, Luc Coene became Deputy Head of Cabinet of Frans Grootjans, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance in the government of Martens V. From November 1985 to October 1987 he was head of Guy Verhofstadt's cabinet, then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Budget in the governments of Martens VI and Martens VII. The reorganisation of public finances was then the overriding focus. When the Liberals disappeared from the government in May 1988, Luc Coene returned to the International Monetary Fund in Washington as a guest researcher. From 1989 to 1992, he served as Economic Adviser at the European Commission and from 1992 to 1995, adviser to the Foreign Department of the National Bank of Belgium. From 1995 to 1999, Luc Coene was co-opted senator for the VLD, the party he helped to focus on baptismal fonts in 1992 and whose economic program he designed. When Guy Verhofstadt became Prime Minister in July 1999, he appointed his loyal associate Luc Coene as Head of the Cabinet. In that capacity, Coene was involved in almost all the important government decisions: "It may have been the most nervous period of my career," he said afterwards. When the Verhofstadt II government was established in July 2003, Luc Coene did not return as Chief of Staff but became Deputy Governor of the National Bank. Leaving the political arena, he sharpened his already particularly broad knowledge of financial management and monetary policy. Luc Coene would use that expertise in the early autumn of 2008 and how! Coene then, calmly but resolutely, took the lead of the group of experts that the Leterme government had assembled in order to save the Belgian big banks in the aftermath of the bankruptcy of the American business bank Lehman Brothers. It was largely thanks to him that a system crisis could be avoided at that time. In April 2011, Luc Coene left his post as Deputy Governor to become Governor of the National Bank, a position he would hold until March 2015. During this period, he managed in particular to have the National Bank entrusted with the responsibility for banking supervision in Belgium. After the end of his term as Governor of the National Bank, then 68-year-old Luc Coene became a member of the Supervisory Board of the Single Supervisory Mechanism, the body of the European Central Bank responsible for the supervision of large banks. Despite his illness, he is still actively involved in the development of an expert report for the Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Overtveldt, on the future of Brussels as a financial centre. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago Luc Coene said: "Festivals and fairs end, cafes enter and then attract the attention of the whole bar: that's hell for me. The last pint I drank at the cafe dates back to my army days in Gavere. Rather than taking care of his image and popularity, Luc Coene used his intelligence, his sense of responsibility and his lust for work, three qualities that gave him friend and enemy behind the scenes. It was there that he, bearing in mind the general interest, always drew up the policy and exercised influence. With Luc Coene, the country loses a civil servant in the full sense of the word, a true grand commiss de l'l'État. In the name of the Chamber, I expressed our sincere condolences to his family, also last Saturday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u3	Mr.President, the Minister of State, Luc Coene, left us at the age of 69 in early January 2017. The government unanimously expresses its appreciation for an academic with a rich and diverse career. He became a great servant of the State and served the government and then the National Bank of Belgium, of which he was governor. After becoming a PhD in Economics and following a postgraduate in European Economic Integration at the College of Europe, he showed his interest in public administration by joining the study service of the National Bank of Belgium. Since the beginning of his career, Luc Coene has been profiling himself as an economist who wanted to exert real influence and who wanted to work for the political and economic world. He joined the IMF as an advisor to the Belgian director and then to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Budget as Deputy Head of Cabinet and later as Head of Cabinet. He wouldn't leave the Res Publica board anymore. He worked for politics as a co-opted senator for the VLD, from 1995 to 1999. For 4 years he decided to be a visible player in Belgium's political life. After that, Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt would appoint him head of the cabinet. Under the first purple-green government, he filled in the role of Sherpa serving Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt and the federal government. He was an influential man and an energetic administrator, who assumed that there was a solution to every problem. He was a real workaholic. "The minister may dream, the chief of the cabinet stands with the boots in the mud," he said. He joined the National Bank of Belgium as Vice-Governor in 2003, then as Governor from 2011 to 2015. He will be remembered as a passionate governor, interacting in the political-media debate with sharp ideas and sometimes political proposals, often liberal, always argued. It is said to be allergic to ideologies, to preconceived ideas. For him, only what can be shown analytically deserved attention, as Jacques de Groote said. He was proud to be a central banker and that role was right for him. He will actively participate as a member of the Governing Council and the General Council of the European Central Bank. In the face of the biggest financial crisis since 1929, his analytical gaze, his calmness, his sense of responsibility and his thorough knowledge of the realities of the political and economic world enabled him to assume the role of Chairman of the Steering Committee. Its qualities have been very useful in bringing innovative solutions to this unprecedented crisis management. I can testify that he played an essential role as a central banker in managing the crisis. Its action, along with others, helped to avoid the worst for the savers of the Belgian banks. He was the man who tamed the banking crisis. He drew lessons he had recently shared without regret, with a sense of duty. In recent years, a pensioner of the National Bank, he remained very active and continued to invest, for example, on the board of directors of the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie, as vice-president or president. There, he could satisfy his passion for opera and serve this house. In the name of the government, I extend my condolences to his family and his neighbors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, in memory of the late Minister of State, I would ask you to observe a few moments of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u5	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important reforms of this government is to keep people working longer in order to keep pensions affordable in the future. However, longer working must also mean that people receive more pensions. Well, there's a problem with certain pensions for our middle class. And that problem exists long before this government. Pensions up to about 15 500 euros are exempt from tax. But if someone receives an additional EUR 1 000 pension in addition to that amount, he or she will pay no less than EUR 1 130 taxes. That is a tax rate of 113 %. That is a communist tax rate, but it is not a rate that is appropriate in our country, especially if we know that people are working longer and are falling net. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, we have tried to solve this problem in this House. There was an amendment by the PS's colleagues, accepted by the majority, and unanimously approved by the 2015 Programme Act, to solve that problem. However, we have noted that the problem has not been solved. Minister, how and when are you finally going to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u6	Mr. Minister of Pensions, you made an important announcement last week. This was going to be the balances, we were going to be able to buy back his years of study for his pension rights, with a small 10% discount, a tax deduction. That was great. We could buy them back, and in three years, the investment would be profitable. It was a nice advertising campaign. The only small problem, Minister, is that you did not take into account taxation. Minister, how was it possible to be so amateur in your office to forget this little detail? This little detail is still a big detail for pensioners. My colleague Mr Marco Van Hees had already asked your colleague the Minister of Finance about Article 154 of the Tax Code, according to which between EUR 15 500 and EUR 16 500, at least 100% is taken – that is, there is nothing left for the pensioner. In addition, there are still other taxes, such as the municipal additions to the tax on natural persons, which must be paid. I don't know the rate in Chaudfontaine. I guess that's 8%. Clac, 8% for the pensioner! In addition, contributions for the RIZIV. Then there is the INAMI which still has to be paid from 17 400 euros. Paf, that's 3.55% more to pay! That has nothing to do with communism, Mr. Van Quickenborne. This has to do with the fact that the Open Vld, which has been in the government since 1999, is making laws that make pensioners pay extra. That's what this is about. My question is very clear, Minister. Do you have a solution so that pensioners today do not continue, as all the Liberals and right-wing members here in the House want, to work longer to earn less? For two years now, the opposition parties have shown you, with numbers in support, that you are trying to get people to work longer and longer so as not to win an extra kopeck. Today, you can even demonstrate that people will work longer by losing money. I really believe, Minister, that if you respect pensioners a little, and especially those who currently have between EUR 15 500 and EUR 16 500, you must find a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u7	Minister, you are becoming the Minister of broken promises. I would remind you once again of the promise regarding the maintenance of the retirement age of 65 years, an electoral promise that you have not fulfilled, but also a promise that you have broken as a minister. You said that your first measure would not increase the retirement age, but you increased it. A whole series of other things have been added, such as the index jump, the tax shift, the abolition of the pension bonus, the abolition of the diploma bonus and the hitting of the treated periods. These are all matters that the entire opposition says your policy amounts to longer working for less pension. This has always been denied, by majority parties, by the chairmen of the majority parties, but today you have to see that it is. What is even more amazing, Minister, is that it had actually been announced a year ago. Several fiscalists pointed out to you that there is a problem. The government said at the time that it would solve that very urgently. Therefore, I do not understand why you were surprised this week that once again you have to work longer for less pensions. Mr Minister, my questions are very simple. What will you do about this? How come you still haven't done anything, even though you were notified of this more than a year ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u8	Mr President, Minister, most of the decisions taken in this hemisphere have fiscal repercussions. This is no different for pensions, and I hope we should know that. The problem of retirement has been known for a long time. That we want to reform pensions, that is fine, but that we want to do so without taking into account the fiscal consequences, that is what I call tampering. That proves all the more that there is little dialogue between you and the Minister of Finance within this government. How come there's no meeting? We ask people to work longer. No problem. We are putting a higher gross pension on that. All that is fine, but if afterwards it turns out that the higher gross pension corresponds to a much lower net pension, then it becomes too cynical. That's beyond comprehension. There is still a problem with regard to the pensions of the self-employed. Selfemployed persons who enter into free supplementary pension insurance often find that the net amount they receive is lower than the original gross amount without a free supplementary pension. Mr. Secretary, working must pay off. That is not only much more honest, but it motivates people to get to work and stay at work. This is a slogan from the N-VA texts and I still support it. If the Minister of Finance still does, you can ask him. A year ago, he promised to solve the retirement trap. How's that going? Is there a solution yet? What are you gonna do about it? How come there hasn't been a meeting between the two of you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u9	Minister, I actually had my question ready for Minister Van Overtveldt because we are talking about a tax retirement, if I may put it that way. As some Members have said, this is a problem that we have known for a long time. It has not only to do with the purchaseback of the years of study, which was recently in the interest, and it was once discussed extensively in the context of the holiday money. At that time, a number of pensioners also had the problem of adding gross but net. This also applies when one has a higher income, an indexing and so on. That is indeed a problem. That was solved at the time for the holiday money. I would like to say to all those who want a solution to be found quickly and who do not want a negative income, that they must all make sure that the bill that we have tabled, together with Mr Deseyn and Mr Vercamer, which provides for a scheme to avoid a negative pension, is adopted. It also takes into account municipal taxes which otherwise are not always taken into account. There is also the problem of buying back the years of study, which goes back to the general problem. Minister, I would ask you to find a solution so that people know where they stand if they want to buy off their academic years. I suggest that you, together with the Minister of Finance, provide some sort of simulation tool. Then one can make the calculation and simulate what buying off those years of study means. Minister, will you, together with the Minister of Finance, ensure that the tax penalty is reversed? What measures will you take to provide good information as a result of the purchase of the years of study? Are you planning to provide a simulation tool?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u10	Mr President, we have already discussed in this Parliament the problem of pensioners who receive a pension between EUR 15 500 or 15 550 and EUR 16 600, on the initiative of Mr Laaouej and Mrs Wilmès at the time, who were able to solve this problem. At least we were hoping for it. Clearly, the text that was adopted at that time by Parliament did not solve the problem, which is sufficient proof of how complex and difficult the technical issues of threshold and degressivity at certain times of particular regimes are. Realizing that the effect of this amendment to a programme law, I think at the time, was not having the desired effect, it was decided to put the issue back on the agenda. Today, this applies to all gross increases in pensions in this income group. This is not a problem of regularization of years of study. This is a problem of increasing pensions in this part of the world, whether by indexing, by working longer – indeed it is quite right – whether by linking to the welfare of allowances. This problem must therefore be finally resolved in fiscal terms. It is therefore an adaptation of the tax law which is again necessary, in addition to the proposal which was unanimously adopted by this Parliament, I think, a little over a year ago. This has been voted unanimously, but it seems to me that we must find unanimity today in order to resolve this problem. It is a perverse effect of the degressivity of the additional reduction for the replacement income referred to in Article 124 (2) of the Income Tax Code. I would remind you that in July 2015, an amendment on this issue was adopted by the majority and the opposition. Today it appears that this amendment was not enough. This problem must therefore be addressed definitively or as quickly as possible, in order to guarantee to workers and pensioners that any increase in the gross pension does indeed give rise to an increase in the net pension. This is a request that I will make to the Council of Ministers tomorrow to resolve this issue with the Minister of Finance and the Government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the answer is clear. We have all tried to solve the problem. I checked the mood again. Everyone approved that proposal at that time. Those who are now shooting at the problem should honestly shoot at themselves. We ourselves committed this mistake in Parliament. I also hear the accusation that the problem has existed since 1999. You do not know the facts, Mr Hedebouw, but we knew for some time that you confessed to post-truth politics. This problem has existed since pensions up to EUR 15 500 were exempted from taxation, which has been for much longer than 1999. The most important thing, Minister, is that the problem must be solved. In this respect, I will follow all my fellow Members who have raised this issue. This is highly unjust. There's no justification for this. I'm glad the finance minister was just here. On behalf of my group, I would ask that this problem be resolved, at the latest in the next budgetary control. It's been long enough. You and your government will have to resolve this or we will make a proposal ourselves in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u12	Minister, basically, you don't have to answer us today. First, when you announced that in three years, you could make the investment profitable, that was not true. You lied to people and you have to be able to say it! Secondly, I would like to inform your firm that above 17,300 euros, you have to pay an INAMi contribution of 3.55% on the whole. Here we only talked about tax discrimination, but you still have the INAMI contributions. I'm telling you, otherwise you're gonna make another mistake next week. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not just talking about taxation, we are also talking about the INAMI contribution! Thirdly, I did not properly understand CD&V's proposal not to be able to go negative. However, there is also the municipal contribution. It's still to be added. Let us be very clear in today's case. The worst is that the CD&V says the following. That'll be zero euros according to CD&V. Then why do people have to put down 250 euros or 1 500 euros for buying up their years of study, to earn zero euros? Who will give 1 500 euros to earn zero euros? I feel like we're getting nervous on the right side. I can see it. Calm down, breathe! In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, rather than trying to find little tricks to get people to work longer and longer, to earn a few more euros or, above all, a few less euros, it would be time, today, to refinance the first pension pillar. Indeed, our pensions are among the lowest in Europe. Pensions in France are 40% higher than in Belgium. Rather than taking measures that will bother people, refinance the first pension pillar, to create worthy pensions! This way, people won't need to make small investments that make them lose money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u13	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am glad that you will find a solution, but the problem has been raised more than a year ago. It is not just about the piece that we have resolved here, Mr Van Quickenborne, it is also about all the measures that were taken afterwards. Minister, I do not understand at all that no calculation was made at that time. You knew. It was announced a year ago. I am very pleased, Minister, that you are finally admitting that you will have to work longer for less pensions. We said this a year ago. I hope that in future we will have sound solutions, because a complete pension reform, with a future and an important first pillar, is still not in place today. I hope that, in addition to the solution you will now offer, you will soon come forward with a plan for a decent pension for all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see a week in which I do not receive e-mails about the fact that Members do not listen at all to what is being said in the Chamber. We really need a culture of mutual respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u15	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It's obvious to us. If you receive a higher gross pension, this should also result in a higher net pension. I hope, therefore, that the solution will not be bric-à-brac or some rapid plumbing, but a sensible solution. It's not just the retirement trap, and you know it. There is also something like the fall in unemployment and the fall in promotion, all of which we urgently need to solve, Minister of Finance. We should perhaps consider whether something should also be done about this duty-free sum. The conclusion is just that working should pay off. This applies to everyone, to civil servants, to employees and also to the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u16	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that you, together with Minister Van Overtveldt, will ensure that this is resolved quickly, that the gross amount added does not mean that it is net, but that it is net more. A first step is our bill, which we will not table. It's already there and it can be approved perfectly together. At the same time, I continue to ask that you, together with Minister Van Overtveldt, provide a pension tool. It is important that this cooperation is there, especially for the current, but also for future pension measures and the consequences of taxation, and that this can be resolved in advance and jointly in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, more than ten years ago, the law on co-parenting was passed here in the House. I remember the discussion at the time about whether residence co-parenthood should be introduced as a general rule, which was the position of Mrs Onkelinx, who was then Minister of Justice or whether residence co-parenthood should be promoted in particular. It's become that last option. The law of 2006 is the law to promote residence co-parenthood. Mr Minister, please note that we came from a time when, in the majority of cases, mothers were given custody over children and fathers. Those were the terms back then. On average, the fathers were granted a weekend visitation right every two weeks, four days a month. In any case, the 2006 law has been an important step. It has been an important step for mothers, who have become more freer both personally and professionally, but also for fathers, who have become more active and more involved fathers. For my party, Open Vld, two principles have been and to date have been very important in the debate. That is, firstly, the equivalence of both parents and, secondly, the co-existence of the accommodation systems. These systems are the unevenly distributed residence, which until 2006 was the only known system in the law, and the equally distributed residence promoted by the new legislation. Minister, I also remember situations before 2006 where parents made agreements on week-week arrangements while judges refused to approve them. Ladies and gentlemen, we came from such a time. We're ten years later. What have we learned and seen on the ground in these ten years? In my view, these are three important issues. First, there is a difference in the application of the law by our judges. Some judges judge on a case-by-case basis what the right residence is for the children. They examine the different criteria, such as the availability of parents, the distance between residences and the existence or absence of dialogue between parents. Other judges consider that there is one general rule, namely equal residence. They follow that rule and don't investigate anything. Secondly, some parents want a week-week scheme, because they do not have to pay for their children, which is, of course, a wrong motivation to apply for that system. Thirdly, there is the serious lack of dialogue. Even though our children are increasingly living in a system of week-week today, we find that the parents barely communicate with each other. That is also the conclusion of the study that was brought to the fore last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u18	You must finish, Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u19	I asked you last year whether it was not time to evaluate the law. You then referred to the current investigation and said that you would do nothing in anticipation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u20	Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu, your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u21	I also drew your attention to the Open Vld proposal to delete the words 'priority' and asked you for your response to that proposal. Now that the study has been completed, I repeat those two specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u22	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, there is not much to find in our coalition agreement on this very sensitive issue. There's no doubt there's a reason for that. It is a very difficult social debate where it is not easy to get people to agree on what is good and what is less good. Many pedagogues believe that the evenly distributed residence scheme is the right one. Others claim otherwise. With parents and wise people, it's the same. The children themselves have very different views about this. Personally, I believe that our legislation currently leaves a wide margin for the courts. If one of the parents asks, priority is given to examining the uniform residence arrangements, but the judge is free to decide and judges decide according to the specific case. If you ask my opinion, I would like to pay more attention to the moment of divorce than to all the problems afterwards. Our family courts are currently being overwhelmed because, at the time of divorce, we do not clearly agree on everything in a fairly extensive way. Proposals such as Mr Becq's parental plan could certainly appeal to me in the Committee on Justice. You won't be surprised. More generally, I would like to say that I am open to any discussion on this point in the Committee on Justice. Our family courts working group is currently evaluating the amicable settlement and looking at ways to improve the separation process. I am also consulting with the Communities. I'm trying to improve the right to hear. It's a big sandwich, but I don't know if we're ready for a social consensus. I'd really like to use it to look for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the outstretched hand, because the parents of a third of our children no longer live together. So we are talking about a large group of young people, and if these young people's accommodation systems are not working properly, they may have consequences for their later lives. It is therefore an important debate. I propose that we, the government and Parliament, get our hands together and that we in the Justice Committee should also look at the chairman, perhaps start organizing a hearing. In the meantime, investigations have been conducted. The law can be evaluated. On the basis of these hearings, we can then look at what needs to be improved in the legislative area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u24	Mr President, Minister, once again, your policy leads to a strike. The Council of the French Bar Association of Brussels decided to simply close the doors of the legal aid office in order to denounce, once again, its underfunding, the lack of resources to carry out its tasks. The gesture is extremely serious, since the Pro Deo guarantees access to justice, especially for the poorest of our society. It is a fundamental right that is called into question. Minister, lawyers believed in your promises at the beginning of the legislature. Today, they're disillusioning. The closed envelope has still not been valued, whereas it is no longer enough: Salduz, the increase in precariousness, the VAT of the Minister of Finance have since passed through it and if you hoped that the new 21% tax would be compensated, I invite you to read the answer and the comments of Minister Van Overtveldt in committee, who sees no evidence of it. For many months now, ladies and gentlemen, my group and I have warned you. Unfortunately, nothing changes. Your answers are simply unfair. The moderator ticket is only a poverty tax and the proposal on the Legal Aid Fund has once again been rejected by the Council of State. Minister, you seem to underestimate the importance of access to justice. It must be a right guaranteed by the State and guaranteed by the State budget. It is a government-wide responsibility. Therefore, will the government compensate for the 21% VAT it will retain from the legal aid budget? Will the cost of the user ticket be reduced by 21%? How can we explain that this government systematically reduces one of the rights of the most fundamental people and, above all, those of the poorest?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u25	Mr President, Minister, "second-line legal aid is essential to ensure access to justice for the most disadvantaged" (Koen Geens, Policy Notes). I would add the Justice Plan and various speeches in committee or plenary to which we can all adhere and to which we believe. All the lawyers believed in your promises and words. You have negotiated with them in good faith the upgrading – as it can be described as such – of legal aid by stating: "Don't worry: as of January 1, 2017, a fund to finance legal aid will be created." However, since that date, what has happened? Nothing. We are in exactly the same situation as before: closed envelope, no supplement – or so little – allocated in the Justice FPS budget, no law providing for the refinancing of legal aid. Mrs De Wit's proposal, in its time, was examined by the Council of State before being recalculated. Similarly, various amendments have been tabled with the Council of State and have been rectified. In addition, we can talk about discrimination, since what you are considering is more like a tax or a royalty than direct support for legal aid funding. So there are real problems for you. In the meantime, your colleague – as if he wanted to offer you a nice gift – says that lawyers will now have to calculate VAT at the rate of 21%, even in the case of legal aid. This will obviously still obliterate and further reduce the value of the point. There is also a new nomenclature with which many lawyers are experiencing problems. Not to mention the enormous administrative work to return the various documents that are requested in order to verify that the lawyers' requests correspond well to the reality. Minister, it has been years since we announced to you that we are going straight into the wall and that you are saying, "Trust me, we are going to make it." In my view, the evidence is that trust has been tarnished. When, how, with what answer are you going to restore it and, most importantly, explore tangible avenues for funding to be real?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u26	Mr President, Mr Minister, it was no doubt a Christmas present specially dedicated to your attention that this circular which your colleague from Finance left you, which you yourself confessed half-wordly, recently, in the Justice Committee, that you were not waiting for it and that you had not been informed beforehand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u27	This is usually the case with gifts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u28	Yeah, that's the surprise of the presents. But the problem is, you can't sell this one on eBay. The gifts we don't want, we can sell them on the internet. But now you don't have that opportunity, that advantage. It's true that it was a gift you might have expected. Finally, this is the result of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This shows that all this was not properly assessed by the government during the reform of the second-line legal aid system. Minister, I will be very specific in my questions. I reread the minutes of the replies you gave to our colleagues in the Committee on Justice. You say: "I was informed on 23 December of the decision taken by the tax administration on 12 December. The ratio legis of this decision has not been communicated to me, but I will contact my colleague in Finance, with whom this point still needs to be coordinated." That's what you said on January 11th, a few days ago. I assume that you have been able to have this consultation since then, and that you have therefore been able to draw the practical, budgetary consequences of this VAT circular, the legal basis of which, I have just said, is the direct result of a judgment of the Court of Justice. Minister, how are you going to offset the cost of VAT on lawyers' services? How will you compensate for the increase in the user fee for legal aid recipients? In other words, even if this would be a first new development, it would be essential to announce that we would have to upgrade due to competition from the budgets allocated to second-line legal aid. This is the only way to deal with this charming gift from your colleague Mr. Van Overtveldt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the strike, first of all, we are in constant contact with the Presidents of the OBFG and the OVB, as well as with the Brussels batons. As far as the substance of the question is concerned, it is true, Mr. Maingain, that we sometimes receive gifts that are not expected. Next week, I expect another gift from Mrs De Wit who is not present in this chamber at the moment. The much-anticipated Legal Aid Fund will be dealt with next week; I hope Tuesday. The Chair of the Justice Committee could confirm that. (...): Tuesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u30	So it'll be Tuesday afternoon. (...): They are all gone!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u31	I know! I want to involve them and I don't succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u33	That is true collegiality, Mr. Brotcorne. The Legal Assistance Fund will bridge the gap between the current budget and the one needed to meet the needs of Salduz 2. I hope to be able to implement it on 1 March or 1 April. If this fund is not enough, I will ask the government to cover me for the rest. It's obvious. I always said it. Normally, I'm applying what I'm saying, Mr. Brotcorne. You'd recognize him if we weren't here! On the other hand, as far as VAT is concerned, I must not explain to you that it is a measure for nothing. But I'll explain it to you patiently, Mrs. özen! What's going on? Justice pays VAT to the lawyer and the lawyer pays VAT to the Minister of Finance. This is what the Court of Justice has decided. In committee, I said, Mr. Maingain, that the lawyer should not pre-finance. He must transfer VAT to the Minister of Finance only when the Minister of Justice has paid it to him. So I'm the one who pays and he's the one who gets it. For the State, the balance is zero. Mr. Van Overtveldt said recently in another committee: We must await the judgment on the substance of the Constitutional Court. We therefore await the ruling of the Constitutional Court. In any case, for the moderator ticket, the problem is real. I will resolve this with the Minister of Finance and the Bar Associations of our country. I hope I have answered your questions in a clear way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u34	Thank you, Minister. I'm glad to know that you have regular contact with orders, with the stick, etc. I invite you to do the same with your colleague in Finance, since this problem has revealed, in addition, a cacophony, a lack of consultation and clear communication within the government. Either, here's the thing said! You're hiding behind the so-called neutrality of this operation. You're hiding behind these calculations, minister. This is very small, because we also know that behind these computational problems is a fundamental issue for the most disadvantaged citizens. Everyone has the right to defend himself in court. Unfortunately, with the increase of this VAT, and with the future ticket moderator, you will still limit access to justice for the poorest people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u36	If, Minister, I understand VAT very well, but you don't know either! You have been saying for some time that you want to bring justice into the twenty-first century and modernize it. Know that in a modern society, allowing the poorest to defend themselves in justice is a fundamental right! It is to preserve it that this government must do, not limit it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u37	Minister, "What I couldn't do today, I promise you to do tomorrow." One can say that when one takes up his duties but not after two and a half years and not after having already used the same argument several times! Trust is no longer on the rendezvous. You will find it difficult to persuade those who continue to work in legal aid that what you are announcing with a delayed effect will eventually materialize. I am not convinced that Mrs De Wit's proposal will address the issue of legal aid funding. It will no doubt contribute to the solution, but it will not be enough. And again, it will have to be seen how it will be perceived! Will this amount be part of the overall budget of the State or will it be allocated practically to the Justice FPS? The question remains open. Mr Minister, for next week's meeting of the Committee on Justice, what you are presenting to us as a acquis on the agenda was not yet there at noon!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u38	Minister, I am pleased that, thanks to the questions we are asking, you can finally begin your dialogue with the Minister of Finance. Obviously, that was not the case yet! I recognize you the talent of the prestidigitator when you want to make believe that everything is in the normal course of things. That's very revealing! Basically, however, the normal course of things is not acquired because you say "receipts" on the one hand and "redistribution" on the other, in legal aid. Except for the moderator ticket for which you say you are going to start the consultation with your colleague. That is what is at the heart of the question! The beneficiaries of legal aid, and especially the poorest, do not have the guarantee that VAT will be deducted from their personal contribution. It would therefore be important to know whether you are going to cover the amount of VAT paid by the beneficiaries of second-line legal aid. You haven't answered it because your number as a prestidigitator, like all such numbers, is delusional for only a moment!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u39	Mr President, Minister, after more than three and a half years, Brussels' investigating judge Claise has managed to complete his very intensive research in the HSBC affair. This intensive investigation concerned one of our country's most well-known tax fraud cases. The criminal record is ready to be delivered to the court, which will then have to initiate the prosecution. This isn't about a mess, it's about something very serious. When Claise started his investigation, he put HSBC under suspicion for serious organised tax fraud, money laundering, criminal organisation and the unlawful exercise of the profession of financial intermediary. What was it about? HSBC Private Bank has helped thousands of Belgians hide and launder billions of euros in Swiss accounts. This means that the Belgian State, all of us, was deprived of huge amounts of taxpayers' money. Good news would be thought, until I read the title in the newspaper that the judges are displeased because they don't want the case to be bought off. That contradicts my sense of justice. A judge of inquiry who spends more than three years digging that file to the bone and then the magistrates say that they should only buy it off for a few hundred million. The government must show that such serious fraud cannot be paid off, that there are also prison sentences on it and that these crimes cannot be swept under the carpet. I understand, Minister, that there is a demand that you restore the buy-back law quickly, so that this case can also be bought off. I'd like to hear your position as Minister of Justice on this affair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u40	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, let me be clear: a buy-back law is only applicable to cases where the limitation period, the reasonable period of time or the lack of evidence do not allow other than to close a buy-back. As a general rule, justice must be done and justice must be done quickly. You know that this is my conviction, and it will not change so soon. In this particular case, after the Constitutional Court had ruled, I checked whether we could amend and restore the law. That would indeed have been possible, with a great deal of transparency, on top of what exists at the moment, so that the public will have the right to know what has been bought off and what has not, on behalf of whom and for whom. Once the Kazachgate affair began to roll, and I did not put it away, I wisely listened to my amendment, in accordance with what the Constitutional Court had said, to put it in a cooler box for the time being, in view of the commission's mandate, namely to review the new Article 216a of the Code and to draw conclusions and recommendations on that basis. I would like to await the conclusions of the committee chaired by your colleague, Mr Van der Maelen. In short, that is my attitude. I am in favour of an amicable settlement if it is really no different, because otherwise the State may indeed miss out on many millions of euros, but an amicable settlement should never be the excuse to avoid or avoid punishment. In this respect, I want to be clear and firm and therefore I want much more transparency in the new regime than in the past, but I await the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u41	Mr Minister, I understand two things. Firstly, you await the conclusions of the Kazachgate Committee before you or do not adopt an amendment to the bill of sale. Secondly, this must not, of course, lead the magistrates to wait. When the file is delivered to the court next month, I believe that, especially since you yourself say that there must be another solution to the risk of limitation, a waiting attitude on the part of the magistrates cannot be tolerated. If you are waiting to amend the law, it must not mean that our judges are waiting and do not do what they have to do, especially this case and bring those involved to court.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u42	Mr President, Minister, one of the important measures taken by the government to tackle radicalism and the terra-story was that action should also be taken against all kinds of houses of prayer where such ideas could flourish. That is why it was important that there was a screening of a number of prayer houses and worship places. It is therefore a good thing that the mosques are being vetted and it is important that this screening is carried out precisely in order to determine which mosques can or cannot be recognized. In this way, the mosques can be controlled. This is clearly a federal jurisdiction. In this context, I refer to Article 3 of the 2008 Cooperation Agreement on the recognition of the services of honour. This means that your advice is requested on this matter and, through you, the advice of the State Security Services, to decide whether or not to accept it. I was therefore surprised to read in the newspaper that Minister Homans is suddenly beginning to doubt those opinions, ask them, demand them, and then apparently do something with them. In the meantime, Minister, have you received a formal question from your colleague from the Flemish Government, Mrs Homans? If so, how do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u43	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, when a regional government receives an application for the establishment of a community of faith, our cooperation agreement provides for the Minister of Justice to give an opinion to the competent authorities. I have received many such questions from Mr Homans, among others. For such advice, I base myself on a resource test and on an opinion from the State Security Services. The cooperation agreement does not specify that I must forward those opinions, but I understand that Mr Homans would like to receive them and I will send them to her today. In fact, we have been arranged through the Cabinet in consultation on these matters. I take this opportunity to say that Mr Homans has also recently asked questions about possible Turkish interference through the mosques. I have already replied at the plenary session of 15 December that the security services of the State will follow up the matter closely and pass on all the new elements to Mr Homans. That happened this week, both to me and to colleague Homans. Mosques can indeed be important partners in the fight against radicalisation. As a government, we cannot proclaim that we must work towards a society of interest where there is room for rational Islam and at the same time be too strict if they meet the comprehensive conditions of recognition. Radicalisation is a complex process, but often frustration is found not to be a full part of society, partly at the root. These are difficult decisions for all of us. I have accepted my political responsibility in this respect and I am sure that all my fellow Members will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u44	Minister, I must say that I find it very strange that Flemish ministers are asking for advice on which you base yourself to pass on certain positive opinions. I think that's not done. Frankly, in this way, the credibility of our services in the security of the State is being somewhat called into question. And it goes far, when one can no longer trust those services. Shoemaker stays with your reading, I'd say. I believe, moreover, that Mrs Homans has a lot of work to do in the Flemish Government. Secondly, Minister, it must be quite clear that everything has to do with the recognition of mosques, at first and certainly in these times, has to do with security. It is very good that you have taken responsibility for this by highlighting it very clearly, just now in your reply. Only through recognition can we control, channel and find out what happened. In this context, I am thinking of the MR's proposal to also give local policy makers certain powers. The recognition allows us to separate the chaff from the corn and ensure that recognized mosques continue to exist. There are many well-organised and well-functioning recognized mosques who want to fight with us against radicalisation. By separating the chaff from the wheat itself, we can ensure that the unrecognized service places can disappear. That is therefore very good, not only for the local authorities, but also for the Muslim community itself, which in this way can very clearly distance itself from the unrecognized places of prayer. It is still a question of security, Minister. I would like to join you in saying that you have just done so, Mrs Homans, in calling for security to continue to be a priority by allowing the recognitions and by avoiding the possibility that party political games might be promoted so as not to recognise mosques on which you have given a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I assume you have been informed, like me, of this excellent report drawn up by 11.11.11, Fairfin and other NGOs. Between 2011 and 2016, 36 billion euros were invested by a number of Belgian or Belgian capital banks in the mining industry, which is problematic not only in terms of the environment but also often in terms of human rights. You will witness that this is not the first time that I have asked you about how the Belgian state, as the owner of a bank, Belfius, as the first shareholder of a French bank, BNP Paribas, but also as the general manager of the regulation of the banking sector, acts for more ethical practices, more sustainable on the part of banks. The impression is that the banks have not understood anything; after the financial crisis, they continue to develop problematic investments and the Belgian state, the government is not sufficiently active to prevent them from developing these dangerous practices, from resorting to these problematic investments. For most of them, the discourse on societal responsibility is just a marketing argument, and you must act, Minister, to change things. Minister, my questions are simple. Have you read this report? How do you intend to act primarily with respect to BNP Paribas, the bank of which we are the first shareholder and which is the main target of this NGO report? Do you agree to amend the banking law to include more elements related to the disinvestment of fossil energy and more ethical practices on the part of our banks. It's really urgent, Mr. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u46	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, let me begin by saying, as you have already said indirectly, that the report has given a good bulletin to our bank Belfius. That is certainly to be stressed. As far as the other financial institutions are concerned, I have contacted BNP Paribas, ING and KBC banks and asked them to explain their policy on investment in mining companies. I also asked them to what extent they took environmental and social standards into account in this regard. I got a first reaction. It has three elements. First, they indicate that they have developed a strategy for investment in general, and/or specifically in the mining sector where human rights and environmental and social conditions are effectively taken into account. Secondly, they are currently unable to respond in detail to this report, as it does not seem to them to contain sufficient specific information on the level of exposure of each bank in a mining company, or on the reasons why certain mining companies are identified as controversial. Thirdly, on the basis of international standards, KBC, in particular, has blacklisted the majority of the companies mentioned in the report. This list is available in full transparency on the KBC website. I will not fail to check whether the official strategy put forward by the banks today, with regard to investment in the mining sector, is indeed in line with their real investments. We will also discuss this issue in more detail with Febelfin and stress the need for a uniform approach common to the whole sector on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u47	Minister, I positively note your willingness to act on the case, even if this is not the first time that I have asked you about BNP Paribas' practices. I therefore expect concrete action. I'll suggest three. First suggestion: banks questioning the truthfulness, the quality of the information contained in this report, organise a dialogue between these banks and the NGOs that are signatories to this report! You can do it very quickly. I think that, through dialogue, we can make progress. Second suggestion: Belgium is the first shareholder of BNP Paribas with almost 10% of the shares, two directors who represent us in this bank. Give them clear instructions about the federal government's willingness to see BNP Paribas disinvest in the fossil energy sector. Third suggestion: make it a general rule! This week, the University of Liège announced that it was emerging from its investments, reserves, the fossil energy sector. This sector is environmentally problematic under the Paris agreements. It is problematic in terms of stability. We need savings from the Belgians (over EUR 250 billion) to finance the internal economy, to finance the energy revolution, energy efficiency and the development of renewable energies. Put Belgium on the road to this virtuous employment and social goal!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u48	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the staff of the Forest-Training Station are under intense pressure. The problematic behaviour of the zone chief is the cause. That tensions arise within a company, that happens of course. People are being reorganized and punished while seeking the best management in terms of human resources. However, in this case, in addition to an inadequate attitude, it is above all a widespread disregard for the basic rules of safety that is denounced by the Forest railwaymen. This is how we learn that security procedures would simply be circumvented on the pretext that we must stop losing money. Is this an expression of productivity syndrome at all costs? In any case, it is punctuality that counts today, to the point of taking precedence over any other consideration and placing itself at the centre of the attention of the railwaymen. As a result, trains would be put into service without the brakes being checked in accordance with the current procedure. There is also the defect of some doors. In spite of this, the trains would be sent on the rails. In addition, several cars are not heated, resulting in a very high breakdown rate and train immobilization. In short, these damages are the result of the unfortunate choices made by the head of the zone. Minister, I obviously do not imagine for a moment that you or SNCB can play with the safety of travellers. We all remember the railway tragedies that have bereaved the country. Minister, can you, in this forum, assure us that the safety of users is at the centre of SNCB's concerns and that this is an isolated case that will, if necessary, be properly sanctioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the press has reported that incidents have occurred at the training station on several occasions. The SNCB confirms to me that its priorities of course remain safety and punctuality, but also that its rules and obligations regarding work organisation must also be applied in Forest-training, as elsewhere. SNCB informs me that an internal investigation was initiated this Wednesday. The purpose of the consultation is to hear from all the parties concerned, to verify whether the procedures are applied in accordance with the rules, and to identify any elements that could hinder good collaboration between the local actors and the collaborators concerned. It is premature to draw any conclusion, even if the initial elements of the investigation suggest that certain facts and comments have been drawn from their context, the SNCB tells me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u50	Minister, we will be attentive to the results of the investigation. You'll agree with me: we can't play with security. I would ask you to be vigilant and to ensure that, if any shortcomings were found, sanctions are applied in full compliance with the procedures. Because when it comes to security, we don't negotiate. You were chairman of the Buizingen Commission. You are the Minister responsible for SNCB. Security is the priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u51	Mr Minister, next week the consultation committee will have the issue of the tightening of noise standards on the agenda. Brussels puts thousands of jobs on the chopping block to force you to move more flights to Flanders. That's irresponsible. At the same time, I have to say that I support the Brussels Government on one point: I support it when it complains that we have been standing still on that dossier for far too long. I know, Minister, that you will be stating in a moment that this is a difficult and sensitive matter, and that you will soon find an appropriate, sustainable and balanced solution. Minister, I don't want to hear that answer anymore. That is not the answer that the inhabitants are waiting for; that is not the answer that the aviation sector is waiting for. They want to know from you when you will come to Parliament with proposals, how you will protect the jobs in the aviation sector, how you will solve the matter. So I ask you very simply and very specifically when you come to Parliament with proposals. When do you come up with a flight bill? When will you bring peace to the aviation sector? Those are very specific questions. I'm counting on an at least as concrete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u52	Dear colleague, the 2014 Government Agreement and the renewal of the 2008 and 2010 airport agreements provide for the submission of a flight law to the Chamber during this parliamentary term. That airplane law will have to include the applicable procedures, standards and rules. The introduction or modification of routes will therefore have to be carried out in accordance with the rules of the flight law. Since 13 July 2016, we have also been required to comply with the European Regulation 598/2014 on the establishment of rules and procedures for the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at Union airports as part of a balanced approach. From now on, the possible introduction or modification of a flight route will have to be the subject of several studies, a socio-economic study, a safety study and an environmental study, as well as a public investigation, involving consultation of the public. The detailed rules of these steps will also be included in the Flying Act. With regard to timing, I can say that the flight law is part of a broader solution. This means that not only a legislative process must be carried out, but a consultative cooperation process must be carried out on all the elements of the solution. My cabinet is considering several slopes, but they must be examined in the light of the cases pending before the Dutch and French courts as well as the Council of State. Indeed, the interpretation of a particular court may have an impact on the further conduct of my action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Unfortunately, you answered another question, I suppose. I know the procedures; I know what needs to be done and I know the challenges. You're the ninth minister working on that file. An agreement must be reached and proposals must therefore be made. I have asked you for these proposals, but you will not give them. You're not making any statements. That is why I think we will have to remind you of this step by step, because this is not how we get out. You can read me the text of your reply ten times, but that does not bring us any closer to a solution. What I expect from you is not an announcement that you will implement the coalition agreement, but effective actions. The residents expect an agreement from you that can be built on, and the aviation sector also expects it. I don't want thousands of jobs to be lost because we're still standing here. I will remind you of that over and over again. I believe that we will cross swords a number of times in connection with this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I am addressing you here today in connection with the articles today and yesterday in the press about the legal raid on the real estate subsidiary of SNCB, at Eurostation, which is either the result of two audits from 2015. The conclusions in those audits were not of the cat, there are words like corruption, conflict of interests and blurring of standards, a number of things with which I personally would not like to be identified. SNCB also didn't think that was nice, because it decided to leave those audits at the parquet in 2015. You know that from the beginning I was particularly interested in this dossier, not least because there is an important Limburg link with the city of Hasselt. I have asked many questions to your predecessor Mrs Galant and to yourself about that dossier, but I have received zero answers. The two arguments for not answering me were the following. First of all, respect for the separation of powers and the parquet does what it deems necessary. Minister, I can only respect that sacred principle of the separation of powers. Secondly, the other argument not to answer me was the fact that your supervision is limited to the public service provider. In other words, you cannot inform me about the way in which the subsidiaries operate in a competitive environment, as this could harm the competitiveness of the companies. As a legalist, I have to accept that as well. However, the actual facts make me suspect that there is more going on and they require us to take action. I therefore have two specific questions. Firstly, do you agree with me when I say that apparently things are happening that cannot, in any way, go away from all forms of control? Are legislative initiatives needed here to avoid such situations in the future? Secondly, in the aftermath of the train disaster in Saint-Georges last summer, questions were raised about the method of awarding tenders by TUC RAIL, the daughter of Infrabel. Are you prepared to ask the CEOs of both Infrabel and SNCB to have all their daughters vetted? I don't think this would be unwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u55	Dear colleague, on Thursday 8 December 2016 a search took place with the SNCB subsidiary Eurostation. The company has cooperated fully. The search took place in the context of an open judicial investigation. SNCB is abstaining in the interest of the examination of further comments. SNCB's priorities for investment in stations have indeed changed since 2014. The emphasis is now on functional stations and on comfort for the traveller. I am thinking, for example, of the increase in platforms. Eurostation should now also contribute as a matter of priority to achieving the strategic vision of SNCB's station projects. For some of the major ongoing station projects, SNCB carried out cost-down exercises in collaboration with Eurostation, which were also approved by the SNCB Board of Directors each time, and which are taken into account in the implementation plans for the following years. These costdown exercises have no impact on the comfort of the passengers in the trains and in the stations. It's just the other way around. This government has put the customer at the heart of its strategic choice for the rail. As a related company, Eurostation may still obtain a limited percentage of its revenue, up to 22%, from other study projects for external partners. Mr Raskin, this includes the Hasselt city office project you mentioned, for which Eurostation only cooperates with another partner for the study, not for the development itself. Eurostation's real estate activities have become secondary. First of all, it concerns the handling of projects that have already been started in the past. For new projects, the risk to the company needs to be greatly reduced. Eurostation's Management Board is also watching over this. SNCB will also no longer sell land to Eurostation for real estate projects. SNCB will sell these sites to third parties in the context of its real estate strategy. In Eurostation and other branches of SNCB, the rules of corporate governance of SNCB were also introduced as well as a code of conduct. Moreover, the financial and legal services also report to the corresponding services within SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for the long answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u57	Minister, your answer was indeed very comprehensive. I hear some good intentions here and there. I have nothing against that in itself, but I have not received any answers to my questions either. I understand you're not talking about an ongoing investigation. I didn't ask any questions about that either. However, we must put a stop to this. We must take legislative initiatives, Minister. We shall certainly come back to this in committee, because a railroad is more transparent than the finances of the subsidiaries of SNCB and Infrabel. We must stop lugging taxpayers' money into the black boxes of those intransparent companies, on which we have no control whatsoever. People demand comfort, good, heated, accessible, safe stations. They don't get it. Let me give you an example. In Hasselt people are sitting in a dump in the cold waiting for a train that never comes and when it arrives it is too late. At the same time, tax money is transferred to sports clubs without exposure and to a non-profit association, linked to a local government. That feeds anti-politics, Minister. We must stop this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u58	Mr President, Mr Minister, my distinguished colleague, Laurent Devin, spoke to you earlier about the issue of rail safety. As far as I am concerned, I would like to mention another aspect of rail safety, namely the safety of goods and people and the fight against terrorism. In fact, it has just been announced that approximately 3,000 additional surveillance cameras will be installed on board the 445 new floor trains that will gradually appear from next year. You reminded my colleague, Françoise Schepmans, that 3,700 cameras had already been installed on Desiro trains between 2014 and 2016. In my view, your plan is for the security of property and people and the fight against terrorism, even if it is not within your competence. In addition, EUR 17 million was allocated to SNCB for the purchase of equipment, including the installation of cameras in our international stations and the strengthening of the personnel of Securail. It should also be borne in mind that, within the framework of the Panama Plan, which has already been implemented, the 3,700 cameras installed in and near railway stations or tunnels under the track will also benefit from significant modifications. In particular, smart cameras or systems to recognize mineralogic plates will be installed. Minister, can you provide us with an update on your entire plan and what remains to be done to fully secure the train? How many times have the police and the judiciary ever sought the images collected by SNCB cameras in recent years? I know that you replied to my colleague Françoise Schepmans, that you would go through the Privacy Commission. So I guess that's how it will be. Are travellers informed that they are being filmed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u59	Dear colleague, as you have indicated, approximately 3,700 cameras are equipping SNCB's Desiro trains. The installation of cameras is currently under consideration for the M7 train cars to be supplied by the Bombardier-Alstom consortium. This study provides for the installation of 3,000 cameras in the 445 cars ordered. Between March 2014 and July 2016, SNCB received 202 requests for images from police and judicial authorities. In 133 cases, it was able to respond favourably to these requests and provide the images to the services concerned. These are recorded on board the train and can be recovered by SNCB when necessary. The Privacy Commission has been consulted and SNCB has received its approval. The Commission recommended that maximum information be provided on the location of the cameras and, to this end, SNCB has established a list of depots and lines used by trains equipped with surveillance cameras. For the rest, I would like to refer you to the many questions and answers that have already been provided concerning the security of the SNCB domain, both private and public.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. As a local elected officer, during the installation of surveillance cameras in my city, before they were installed at the station of Braine-le-Comte, I remember the cry of orfray! No one in Hainaut wanted to install them. Since then, all the communes, even that of a certain former prime minister and party president, have also installed them. They are now part of the means of security. First remark. Secondly, indeed, we know how positive each element of strengthening rail safety is. We have seen this again with the problem of the Nazi-Islamic terrorist who intervened in Berlin and who went through our railways. Finally, because we are Liberals, it is extremely important that there be a necessary balance between security and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u61	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now we have known that the national public passenger transport service will be liberalised at European level by the end of 2023. By that date, States would have to award public service contracts open to competition. This is called the fourth railway package. Thanks to the action of the Michel government, Belgium has obtained an exception. This exception is intended to allow a country like ours to take into account its specificities and to enable its historical operator – in our case, SNCB – to continue to deliver this service to the public. Of course, things must be done to improve the quality of service to travellers and commuters, not to encourage society to follow an inefficient path. These performance and efficiency conditions must be met. SNCB must be able to prove that it is as efficient as its European counterparts. In the light of a recent study, the Economic Insights study at the University of Leuven, carried out in collaboration with other universities, and which you have obviously read, you have found that the lights are red for SNCB on these criteria and for these conditions to be met in order to benefit from this exception. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you what you think of this study. Does it correspond to your analysis of the situation? What is the state of mind of all the active forces within SNCB to meet this challenge, and to enable society to continue to be our historical operator and to deliver public service in Belgium by 2023? Finally, will we be ready, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u62	Thank you for your question, Mr. Foret. Many studies, including a benchmarking carried out by SNCB itself in 2015, clearly show that SNCB's economic performance is insufficient, particularly in relation to the European deadline of 2023. This is further confirmed by the study you refer to: "Economic Considerations". One of the objectives of the savings requested by SNCB until 2019 is to increase productivity, thus improving SNCB's position towards this crucial deadline, of course. The company's current management and the new delegated administrator are well aware of the issues and challenges. I count on them to bring all the employees and the forces of the railways to the same conclusions and to encourage them to engage fully in the major projects of modernization of enterprises. The first steps have been taken, but the daily effort needs to be continued so that SNCB can achieve the required levels of performance (because they will be required) to continue to carry out its public service missions after 2023. It is, in any case, the mission in which I have signed up and the measures taken on a daily basis demonstrate our determination to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u63	Minister, thank you for your question. Indeed, 2017 will be a crucial year. There are many challenges ahead, as it will be a pivotal year in the run-up to 2023. It is not so far away and we will be at your side and alongside all the workers and management of SNCB, because it is important to be able to guarantee this quality service to the public. As part of the new management contracts for the new Multiannual Investment Plan and for the new CEO, it will of course be necessary to address these challenges. We will not fail to return to the subject, I am sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u64	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, today I read in the newspaper that 10 000 out of 30 000 calls from people with disabilities to the Federal Public Service for Social Security remain unanswered every month. 10 000 calls a month, that's one out of three. Madam Secretary of State, I don't know if you know Bart. Bart is the father of three children and has the misfortune to have a disability. He gets a fairly small benefit from the government, because his wife Liesbet works. But the family is unlucky because Liesbet loses her job. Bart then wants to inform the Social Security Office as soon as possible so that he can recalculate his benefit and his family Bart, Liesbet and the three children can live in a decent way. Bart takes the phone and tries to reach the FPS Social Security, not once, but several times, but he gets no answer. He then fills out the contact form on the website of the FPS Social Security Office, but there is no answer to that either. Meanwhile, Bart's family, two adults and three children, has to live with a limited benefit of 462 euros per month and live in uncertainty. After all, when will the FPS Social Security finally recalculate the benefit of Bart? You did launch myhandicap.be. That is a good thing, but it is not always easy for people with disabilities to fill in the documents. They like to get help from someone on the phone, but they can't or very difficult to reach that person. Madam Secretary of State, is the result of all the savings and cuts in services that are most in need of them in the cold? What will you do about it? Will you give Bart and Liesbet the service they deserve as citizens? I have a suggestion for you, Madam Secretary of State. With the cost of an unnecessary state secretariat, we can certainly strengthen that telephone exchange. Maybe that's a much more efficient saving.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u65	Mrs Willaert, you may be shocked, but I share your indignation. By the way, you know that and this matter has already been discussed in committee. I know this is a big problem. The telephone accessibility of DG Han needs to be much better. You also know that there are several reasons. The sixth state reform has resulted in a very short-term transfer of 25% of DG Han's staff to the regions. In addition, DG Han is prioritising the handling of the files. As you know, this deadline has been drastically reduced for the handling of the files. In the meantime, we have taken other measures to improve the provision of services. I am thinking of mydisability, which is a major step forward, and I will continue to insist on this, which will ensure automatic data exchange with all the actors involved. We started doing this in July 2016. You also understand that we are now in transition. People involved, including general practitioners, need to get used to it. There is a need for a lead time, but in the long term this will certainly save time and be more efficient. Am I satisfied with the telephone service? No. Are we working hard on that? Yes. I take this to heart. Ten people were recruited in January. I have sat with the top people of the FPS Social Security and DG Han and we are looking for both structural solutions and a better technical organisation. I want an extension of the very limited number of hours of accessibility. Moreover, I want a better internal staff organisation. We do have a problem there, but we certainly want to solve it and we are working on it. And as far as state secretariats are concerned, I will be the first to say that anything can be done with less, including in terms of state secretariats.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u66	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. This has been going on for a very long time, but your answer is simply insufficient in line with your policy so far. You come up with a few concrete solutions. This has been going on for a long time, and I think this is because your government is not giving you enough. Nor is it the only thing that has happened to this legislature, as far as people with disabilities are concerned. You just forget about these people. In April 2016, the living wage was raised by 2%, but people with disabilities were forgotten. This summer you want to solve that during the budget negotiations in 2017. That is not possible and you will then send a letter to the social partners asking them to think about it when they hand out the welfare envelope. Eventually, they did last week. The social partners are doing what this government apparently cannot do. You just leave people with disabilities in the cold. We discussed this in committee. When you were confronted in committee with the story of those ten thousand unrequited calls, you say that they are not unique callers, that they are not ten thousand people and that they will eventually get in. Services in 2017, a disgrace. I have another quote. A civilized society can be recognized by how it deals with its weakest citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u67	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, for months in committee, we have urged you to appoint the members of the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat to allow for an on-site mission. You were even forced to do so by an order of the court of first instance. Today, more than a month later, 38 days later, we are still waiting and without knowing the reasons. There would have been statements during the Christmas holidays. Through the intermediary of your Chief of Staff, you would have said that there would be no appointment of the members of the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat. I would like to know whether this information is correct. Madam Secretary of State, you are in charge of scientific policy and, therefore, you have an obligation of result in terms of scientific research. Note that in 2016, €3 million was spent without sending any researcher to the site. Time passes. The deadlines are here. We have to go. The last flight is for February 9, 2017. So there's an emergency. You said, during the discussion of the policy note, that you were still considering a mission this year, but we do not see anything coming. Worse, the glaciologist at the ULB, Mr Pattyn, presented the day before yesterday in the journal Science Magazine, which the Belgian government expressly prohibited any Belgian scientist from going to the station. I'd like to know if that's right. BELSPO also expressly ordered Belgian scientists involved in research projects to refuse contact with anyone at the station. BELSPO also orders – it's huge! – researchers should not accept the transmission of data from the station. We therefore prohibit further research. This is obviously the opposite of our country's scientific policy. Madam Secretary of State, I find this particularly bizarre and I believe that negotiations worthy of this name must begin. I conclude that you are not looking for a solution, especially for scientists. Madam Secretary of State, would you like to clarify the government's intentions on this matter and appoint the members of the Strategic Council? How do you justify this ban on researchers? Will you send Belgian scientists this year? What are you going to do with the Polar Station in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u68	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, it was written that we were going to meet on this issue of the polar station. In December, in committee, you did not answer all the questions you were asked. It also appears that irregularities or even illegalities have been updated by the Council of State. These irregularities would even be "legions of eskimos". It seems that you have no more or less circumvented the law, including by appointing five experts from BELSPO. However, the law of 24 July 2009 is quite clear: only the Polar Secretariat is responsible for the financial and material management of the scientific station. In reading the missions of these experts it is interesting to see the similarity of the tasks and the confusion between those of BELSPO and that of the Polar Secretariat. Madam Secretary of State, when you arrived at your post, you had two obligations: to send scientists to Antarctica and to respect the law. It must be noted that you have failed on both levels. I can understand that you do not agree with the legislation, but then come with proposals that allow it to evolve. Until proven otherwise, this is not the case. And until proven otherwise, too, we are in a rule of law and you are not above the law. I would like to invite you, moreover, to make your own Kant's maxim that "the duty is to carry out an action out of respect for the law". The action that I invite you to do, Madam Secretary of State, is to appoint the members of the Strategic Council, whose absence prevents the State from carrying out its missions in Antarctica. Belgium refers a deplorable image to its international partners. This scientific mission is becoming truly urgent. How do you explain the similarities between the missions of the five BELSPO experts and the missions of the Polar Secretariat? Who now manages the Polar Station? When are you going to appoint the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat? These are our questions, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u69	Mr de Lamotte, Mr Senesael, let me first remind you of the provisions of the government agreement concerning the Polar Secretariat and the management of the polar base: "The Polar Secretariat will adopt the structure of an AISBL within which the States Parties maintain a majority interest in management." The management of the polar base, of which the Belgian State owns 999 thousandths and which the International Polar Foundation has kept a thousandth symbolic, has become very complicated and no longer works productively and efficiently. The decision of the Council of State in September 2016 on the suspension of the 2015 Royal Order, which provided for a renewed Strategic Council, shows that the limits of the current model are being reached. The renewal of the Strategic Council therefore makes no sense. Framework action and composition have shown that the current model does not work. I can inform you that I am working today on a sustainable future model of ownership and management of the Belgian polar base. This model will ensure the future of the polar base and scientific research and will put an end to legal proceedings. It is these procedures that today prevent any rational management of our polar station. Through a bill, an AISBL will be founded. The International Polar Foundation will have the opportunity to participate in this AISBL, like other equivalent and unprivileged private partners, as well as interested countries. In this way, a sustainable future model of ownership and management of the Belgian polar base will be implemented. Until this model is in place, the Belgian State is not in a position to organize a scientific mission during this season in Antarctica. However, an inspection mission will be organised this season. During its last meeting, the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting (ACTM) took the decision to organize an inspection mission on the airstrip in Romnoes near the Princess Elizabeth polar station. This mission is the result of a great concern about the commercial and tourism activities that have been developed without any authorization or environmental impact analysis. Many see it as a worrying precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u70	Madam Secretary of State, your stubbornness has something shocking in the light of a situation that scientists who are anxious to work are experiencing. It is therefore scientific policy that is at issue. In your policy note, you announced that scientists would be sent again this year. February 12 is the date of the last flight. It is unacceptable not to continue the process. Whatever you decide in the future, since you are announcing new projects, we will have to negotiate with the International Polar Station. There's no other way. Madam Secretary of State, when you are in an emergency, you take several days if necessary, but you have to put your work back on the job. We can't stagnate. You must now rise above conflicts instead of feeding them. It's not a solution. Take your responsibilities and truly allow researchers to work! Keep collecting the data from there! You didn't answer me. BELSPO has given instructions to prohibit the use of scientific data. I find this, at the very least, regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u71	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Of course, you can tell us everything you like. However, your model of a sustainable future, as you wish, is still not validated. Whatever you say, the procedures prevent the polar station from functioning. But you are the instigator of this by failing to comply with the legislation. Your decisions run counter to the scientific interest. We can only regret it. Madam Secretary of State, please, don't be the fosterr of super-fetational conflicts! Work positively for the scientific interest of our country! That's all we're asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u72	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in a confidential report from Frontex that was sent to the British Financial Times, the border agency accuses the NGOs operating in and around the Mediterranean Sea of working with smugglers to transfer people to the European mainland. Frontex explicitly repeated these serious accusations in a new report, which was distributed to officials and diplomats in the European Union. The report states, among other things, that the smugglers give very concrete guidelines, before their crummy boats leave, on the specific course to be taken to get to the NGOs as quickly as possible. In that report there is even a specific case in which the criminal organisations brought the refugees directly to the NGO boat. If Frontex's information is correct, it means that these NGOs facilitate the transfer of illegal migration to Europe. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware of those reports? Can you tell us which NGOs are active in the transfer operations in and around the Mediterranean? Which of these are specifically involved in the practices that Frontex accuses them of? Do you think it is the task of these subsidised NGOs to facilitate illegal migration to Europe through these transfers? If Frontex's information is correct, are you prepared to stop subsidising the NGOs involved? In practice, they are working with smugglers to facilitate illegal migration, and that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u73	Ms Pas, several NGOs are active in the Mediterranean and are conducting search and rescue operations to rescue drones trying to reach Europe. The most famous organization is Doctors Without Borders. The NGOs are not part of the official European delegations or European operations in the Mediterranean, in which Belgium has also participated several times. We regularly receive non-public analyses from Frontex. Indeed, in autumn 2016, Frontex reported that since June 2016 there has been a sharp increase in the number of rescue operations involving NGOs. Previously, it was only 5% of all rescues. After June 2016, the percentage suddenly increased to 40%. So four out of ten rescues are done by NGOs ships. Several possible explanations were given: the number of NGOs has doubled; the ships are often very close to Libyan territorial waters or even in Libyan territorial waters; their positions are indeed also known to migrants and smugglers. I'm confirming that. Although it is undoubtedly motivated by good intentions, this practice of rescue operations on the outskirts of, or even in, Libyan territorial waters has the perverse effect of increasing numbers of migrants crossing the border and, more importantly, leaving more and more refugees to die. So it has a reverse and very perverse effect: almost 5 000 deaths in Libyan waters in the past year, as you have read. In 2016, we counted no less than 180,000 migrants who tried to cross by boat to Italy and no less than 4 500 drowning deaths on that route. It is precisely for that that Frontex warns. In this context, it is good to know that in similar situations last year the Greek authorities brought an action for human trafficking against various NGOs activists. It is up to the Italian authorities to consider possible action against NGOs who drop off picked migrants in Italian ports. A fundamental solution to this problem in the Mediterranean can only be achieved if the European Union succeeds in reaching a deal for the whole of the Mediterranean, just like the EU-Turkey deal. That is the great challenge, so that migrants who buy a ticket on a rickety smuggler no longer have free access to the European continent. That's the essence. Only in this way can we break the business model of smugglers and combat the disgrace of the thousands of drownings. I've been arguing for that for a long time. The Prime Minister of Malta presented his vision for the Maltese Presidency yesterday. He's on that line, too. Jan Jambon and I are going to Malta next week. That point will be the subject of discussion in the next six months. I hope that by the summer of 2017, we will have a solution, as we have devised with Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u74	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Collaborations, in any way, between NGOs and criminal smugglers of human beings must be stopped. You rightly referred to the effect that the smugglers are responding to the spectacular increase in the number of NGOs' rescue efforts. In this way, even more refugees will cross the border, with all the disastrous consequences. You pointed out that the number of NGO rescues is multiplied by factor 8. It is remarkable that in the same period, since June, the number of distress signals that have been sent from boats with illegal migrants has fallen spectacularly, by as much as 56%. In short, things are getting in the way of each other. Mr. Secretary, you made the comparison with the deal with Turkey. I hope we're not going down that road. I hope that you will indeed be knocking on the table with the European Union and that you will not stand behind the European Union. I hope that something will be done about the NGOs involved which are responsible for this perverse effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u75	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u76	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2016, a fourth call for candidates for the mandates of alternate non-notary member of the Notary Appointment Committees in the "Lecturer or Professor of Law" category has been published in the Belgian Official Journal of 28 November 2016. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2016, a fourth call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 28 November 2016 for the terms of non-notary alternate members to the Notariat Appointment Commissions, in the category "charged with courses or professor of law". The Dutch-speaking and French-speaking nomination committees for the notaries are each composed of eight working and eight alternate members, each with four notaries and four non-notaries. The appointment commissions for the French- and Dutch-language notariat are each composed of eight effective members and eight alternate members, each of whom consists of four notaries and four non-notaries. Members of notaries are appointed by the National Chamber of Notaries. Notary members are appointed by the National Chamber of Notaries. The alternate non-notaries shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives with a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, from the following three categories: - one magistrate, - one lecturer or professor of law; - two external members with professional experience relevant to the contract. Non-notary alternate members shall be appointed by the House of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, from among the following three categories: - a magistrate; - a lecturer or a professor of law; - two external members with professional experience useful for the mission. In accordance with Article 38 (7) of the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI of the Notarial Office, as amended by Article 2 of the Law of 27 April 2016, the members of the Appointment Committees for the Notarial Office are appointed for a period of four years, renewing every two years the mandates of half of the working and alternate members. In accordance with Article 38 § 7 of the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat, as amended by Article 2 of the Law of 27 April 2016, the members of the Appointment Commissions for the notariat are appointed for a term of four years; the terms of half of the actual and alternate members are renewed every two years. As a transitional provision, Article 2 of the Law of 20 May 2016 amending the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI in the notarial office provided that, at the first re-conciliation after the entry into force of this Law, half of the members are appointed for a period of two years. As a transitional measure, it is stipulated - in Article 2 of the Law of 20 May 2016 amending the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat - that at the first composition after the entry into force of this Law, half of the members will be appointed for a term of two years. Following the four calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal and the appointment of the working members at the plenary session of 22 December 2016, the following applications were submitted for the mandates of alternate members: Dutch-speaking candidates: 1. As magistrate: Ms Ria Mortier, Advocate General at the Court of Cassation 2. As a lecturer or professor: Mr Nicolas Carette, Professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Antwerp 3. As an external member: Mr Etienne Allaert, Deputy Auditor at the Dutch-speaking Appointment and Appointment Commission of the Supreme Court of Justice Ms Isabelle Dupré, strategic advisor at the College of Courts and Courts Ms Ria Mortier, Advocate General at the Court of Cassation Mr Antoine Van Eeckhout, lawyer at the Bar in Kortrijk. French-speaking candidates: 1. As magistrate: Ms Ludivine Kerzmann, Judge at the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels 2. As a lecturer or professor: Ms Nathalie Dandoy, lecturer at the Faculty of Law of the "Université catholique de Louvain" 3. As an external member: Mr Guy Cremer, company supervisor Mr François Dubois, candidate bailiff Ms Stéphanie Mees, translator at the Supreme Court of Justice Mr Christophe Philippe, Head of the Peace Courts and the Police Court of the Arrondissement of Luxembourg. Following the four calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor and the appointment of the actual members during the plenary session of 22 December 2016, the following nominations were submitted for the terms of alternate members: Dutch-speaking applicants: 1. As a magistrate: Ms Ria Mortier, Advocate General of the Court of Cassation 2. As a lecturer or teacher: Mr. Nicolas Carette, Senior Lecturer at the Faculty of Law at the University of Antwerp 3. As an external member: Mr Etienne Allaert, Deputy Auditor of the Dutch Language Appointment and Designation Committee of the Supreme Council of Justice Isabelle Dupré, Strategic Advisor to the College of Courts and Courts Ms Ria Mortier, Advocate General of the Court of Cassation Mr. Antoine Van Eeckhout, lawyer at the Courtrai Bar. Francophone applicants: 1. As a magistrate: Ms Ludivine Kerzmann, judge at the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels 2. As a lecturer or teacher: Ms. Nathalie Dandoy, lecturer at the Faculty of Law of the Catholic University of Leuven 3. As an external member: Mr Guy Cremer, Business Reviewer Mr François Dubois, candidate bailiff Ms. Stephanie Mees, translator at the Supreme Council of Justice Mr Christophe Philippe, Chief Registrar of the Justices of the Peace and the Police Court of the borough of Luxembourg. By letter of 10 January 2017, Ms Nathalie Dandoy announced that she would withdraw her candidacy. By letter dated January 10, 2017, Nathalie Dandoy announced that she was withdrawing her application. Since she was the only candidate for the French-speaking Appointments Committee in the category "teacher or professor," there are currently insufficient applications for this category. Since she was the only candidate for the Commission de nomination francophone in the category "charged with courses or professor", there are currently too few applications for this category. On the other hand, there are sufficient applications for the mandates of alternate members of the Dutch-speaking Appointment Commission and for the mandates of alternate members in the categories "magistraat" and "external members" of the French-speaking Appointment Commission. On the other hand, there are sufficient nominations for the terms of alternate members of the Dutch-language Appointment Commission and for the terms of alternate members in the "magistrate" and "external members" categories of the French-language Appointment Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 January 2017, I propose that you publish a new appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of alternate member of the French-speaking Appointments Commission for the notary in the "teacher or professor' category, to deliver the CVs of candidates in the other categories to the political groups and to appoint these candidates on Thursday 26 January 2017. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 January 2017, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of alternate member of the Commission de nomination pour le notariat de langue française in the category "charged with courses or professor", to transmit the curriculum vitae of candidates in the other categories to the political groups and to proceed with the appointment of these candidates on Thursday 26 January 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u77	As a result of the resignation of Ms Camille Dieu, a third call for candidates for a mandate of female French-speaking member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 November 2016, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2016. Following the resignation of Ms Camille Dieu, a third call for candidates for a French-speaking female member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate" appeared in the Moniteur belge of 23 November 2016, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2016. No application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 Janvier 2017, I propose that you publish a fourth call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 January 2017, I propose that you publish a fourth call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u78	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 January 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Rita Gantois and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Luk Van Biesen) amending Royal Decree No. 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services at those rates as regards the VAT rate for the supply of plants and flowers in the case of gardening and maintenance, No. 2261/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u79	- the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Mrs Evita Willaert c.s.) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No. 2271/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u80	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 January 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms Rita Gantois and MM. Benoît Piedboeuf and Luk Van Biesen) amending Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and determining the distribution of goods and services according to those rates as regards the VAT rate applicable to the supply of plants and flowers for the development and maintenance of gardens, No 2261/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u81	- the draft law (Ms. Muriel Gerkens, Evita Willaert et al.) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No. 2271/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u82	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u83	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law introducing a deduction for innovation revenue, No. 2235/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill introducing an innovation income deduction, No. 2235/1, was introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u84	Mr President, the current draft law is motivated by the urgency of referring to the legal uncertainty that threatens to arise for companies that made investments in 2016 and for whom the patent was recognised after 1 July 2016. Those companies should report urgently and the annual accounts should be drawn up, with legal certainty as to the correct presentation of the data essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u85	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u86	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 11 January 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 11 January 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 190/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 190/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u87	Mr President, it is a well-known problem that the mayor of St Lambrechts-Woluwe has been working on language legislation for several years. This has already been the subject of regular debate in the Brussels Parliament and the problem has not only been denounced by Flemish Interesters. They were followed by the N-VA, Open Vld and CD&V, which rightly point to the need to end this. However, the competent authority, the Brussels Government, does not go beyond writing a note without any effect. She refuses to take any further action against it. Vervoort calls disciplinary measures ridiculous, despite the fact that the N-VA is also asking for disciplinary proceedings with us. That is why I asked the Minister responsible for language legislation to at least raise the issue with the Consultation Committee. That's entirely his jurisdiction. If, therefore, the fellow Members of the N-VA, Open Vld and CD&V in the Brussels Parliament are serious about the comments they make there, then I am counting on them to support this motion of recommendation to the Minister for the Interior, responsible for language legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u88	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 79 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-19-54-plenair-ip153x.u89	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 26 January 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 26 January 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 26 January 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 26 January 2017, at 2.15 p.m.
