ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I took the initiative on Monday to give our committee the opportunity to be briefed on the 2017 budget control during an exchange of views. There are also two additional questions from Mr Gilkinet and Mrs Smaers, who will be able to be discussed in the course of the discussion. I propose that Minister Wilmès and Minister Van Overtveldt give a brief explanation of the decisions of budgetary control. A table has also been distributed, explaining a number of budget lines. Following the presentation by the Ministers, I propose that each group should be given the opportunity to intervene. I do not put a lot of time on it, but most of the time is five to seven minutes. Then there will be a reply from the government, after which everyone will have the opportunity to make a number of comments. However, it was agreed at the Conference of Presidents this morning that the discussion here does not rule out the possibility of asking questions on this subject in plenary. Certain groups raised the question of whether we were going to commission this case. No, if there are any further questions after this discussion, they can also be put in plenary. Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u2	In the meantime, we have received the table with the figures. Today, however, we read in the newspaper that the Planning Bureau now has new forecasts and estimates that an effort of EUR 6.5 billion will have to be made for the 2018 budget. In order to have an exchange of views with the full information available, because, of course, budgetary control is linked to the broader budgetary perspective................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You will not be surprised that this information will appear in this debate. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to receive the full figures, without having to deduce them from newspapers or without having to look for them myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u3	Ministers are free to explain themselves. What the Planning Bureau said today, of course, does not bind the government to anything. I've seen those tables. They can also be used in the debate and, of course, questions can be asked about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u4	Mr. Chairman, if this report exists and if the minister, the minister, is in possession of this report, can we have it in place? I imagine that it should not be too complicated to make some photocopies, so that we can have the figures from the Planning Office, so that we can approach this exchange of views with full knowledge of the facts. My question is therefore very clear and very explicit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u5	I'm not sure, but I think the Planning Bureau belongs to the Prime Minister. I will ask for the report this afternoon. Apparently it was electronically available. I also read an article about this in De Tijd. I'll get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u6	The Planning Bureau belongs to Minister Peeters, responsible for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u7	We'll ask Minister Peeters. It might be harder for me to... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u8	I am sorry to interrupt such a humorous moment with something serious. Let us not play it formally now. I really don't give a shit who's the guardian minister of the Planning Bureau right now. This weekend, the government organized a budgetary whore show: everything is fine, we are doing well. Then we cannot start this exchange of views before the Planbureau's analysis for 2018 is shared with us. Mr Van de Velde seems to think that is funny.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u9	Yeah, I think that's funny.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u10	At least there is already the strength of change in this area, because if there had been a gap of 6.5 billion in the previous legislature, the N-VA would have been on the tables. Mr President, I repeat my question formally. I wish that both ministers would share that report with us. I can't imagine that they don't have that report, which would be entirely a problem. I would like both ministers to talk to us about the prospects of the Planning Office which we can read today and which shows that there is still a huge amount of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u11	I read that article in the paper, too. I'll ask Minister Peeters for that report from the Planning Bureau. I can tell you, moreover, that the figures of the Planning Bureau do not take account of the budgetary control measures. They don't take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u12	Then we'll have to add another 500 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u13	Let us be a little serious. I have had the courage to say that I have had the courage, because I have been criticised this afternoon at the Conference of Presidents to say that Parliament would have this discussion first in the Finance and Budget Committee. That is what a parliament is for. We're gonna start now. The ministers are here. I asked them to come here. They're prepared. Anyone can intervene and express their reservations. I'll ask Minister Peeters to get the study from the Planning Bureau. Probably at everyone's disposal, since the newspapers reported it. Let us first listen to what the government has decided, in what context. Then one can possibly replicate. I will try to make this study available to you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u14	Mr President, we can still ask the ministers if they are in possession of this report and, if they are in possession of this report, to transmit it to us. Why necessarily have to ask the Minister of Economy? We can do this pro forma, but if the report is already at their disposal, we may have it, which may allow us to feed our discussions. I don't see why we're going to be burdened with a procedure...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u15	We'll wait for the ministers' response first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u16	Can they tell us if they have the report or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u17	They will give an explanation on budgetary control. They will answer your questions but wait for the government first and then you have the opportunity to intervene, to ask questions... Personally, I undertake to ask this report from the Planning Office, which has made forecasts on the basis of measures not yet taken into account in budgetary control. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u18	Dank u mijnheer from voorzitter. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, indeed, we come here with pleasure to explain to you the outline of the political agreement reached on Saturday evening in the context of budgetary control. It marks the end of a multi-day discussion process. It is true, as I do, that this work is not finished. We still need to work on budget notifications, which will formalize the framework for decisions that have been taken. These budget notifications are still in the final stages, and will have to be approved by the Council of Ministers. So you will have understood that this is not yet the case and it makes sense because we have not had enough time to do so. After that, it will be up to the Strategy and Support FPS, on the basis of the data provided by the various departments, to prepare the budget documents that will be tabled in the Chamber for discussion and vote. It is these documents that make law and no other. I have no doubt that we will have an opportunity to discuss this at length, broadly, throughout and in detail, during the discussions that will be planned for budgetary adjustment at the appropriate time. This does not prevent us from already addressing the way the government has worked within the framework of this conclave. Indeed, in February, there were a series of technical bilateral meetings held between my firm and the administration and all departments to analyse their budget proposals. The aim is to update requirements, taking into account the volume effects and new technical parameters. These data were then transmitted to the Monitoring Committee and taking into account this update and the new macroeconomic forecasts, the Monitoring Committee prepared its report and released it on 10 March 2017. As you also know, it has set the structural effort to be made at EUR 313 million, in the context of the budgetary adjustment which serves only to redirect the "budget boat" in the path we have set ourselves. As a reminder, when drawing up the initial 2017 budget, the government had set the objective of achieving an improvement in the structural balance of 1.2 % between 2015 and 2017. As a cautious measure, the government has decided to maintain a buffer or a safety margin of EUR 558,8 million, mainly in order to protect itself against possible deviations in the achievement of fiscal revenue and thus to ensure that our budget path objective is met. This brings the effort to EUR 871.8 million. As always, the detailed analysis of the Monitoring Committee's report in the Working Group has led to several technical corrections and adjustments in order to reflect the decisions taken by the Government since the initial 2017 budget of EUR 932 million. As a result, a budget margin of EUR 60 million has been released for Justice, the police, the non-profit sector and the energy transition fund. In parallel, the government has provided additional resources to deal with the asylum crisis, 232 million in total, and the fight against terrorism, 6.2 million euros in total, which may be excluded from the budgetary effort by the flexibility clause. This fiscal year demonstrates that the measures taken by the government also bear fruit in terms of the budget. Thus, compared to the initial forecast, growth for 2017 was revised upwards from 1.2 per cent to 1.4 per cent. In addition, the number of jobs has been adjusted. The Federal Office of the Plan, in June 2015, focused on the creation of 59,000 jobs in 2015 and 2016. The same Planning Office noted in its February economic budget that 100,000 jobs were eventually created over the period, or 40,000 more jobs. We can only rejoice. But I've heard of triumphalism before. We're not there at all! This is a good exercise to put the initial 2017 budget back on track. It is not about 2018, nor about 2019. There is no question of new measures or policies to be put in place. This is an adjustment and I would like you to understand what that means. The adjustment is to put the sliders back in place from what had been planned. We can indeed be pleased that we have been able to put the financial year in its budgetary path. But the initial forecast was still for Belgium's overall structural deficit at –1.11% at the end of 2017, which is still just under 5 billion to be achieved by 2018 for Belgium as a whole. These amounts remain valid. These amounts have not disappeared. Far from the idea of saying that fiscal balance is being achieved this year. That is not the purpose of the exercise! I told you about the figures for Belgium. For entity 1, i.e. the main items that we occupy, at the initial 2017 the structural deficit was 0.84%. You remember, since you have read and, for some of you, voted on the budget. If the budget remains in the nails of the trajectory we set ourselves, you will have understood that the path to balance remains ambitious. With this in mind, we must continue to carry out serious monitoring to ensure that the budget actually remains in the path we have decided on. It is important to respect these commitments, among others to the European Commission, which, as you know, observes and evaluates us. I imagine that the Minister of Finance will also make an introductory statement. For the rest, I would be delighted to answer your first questions, knowing that we will still have an opportunity to debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, the necessary adjustments have been much smaller this year than in recent years, for two essential reasons: firstly, the improvement of the economic parameters and, secondly, the buffer which, as you know, was created on my initiative. On the one hand, as a result of the structural reforms that the government has implemented and will continue to implement in several areas, we have a higher rate of economic growth and, above all, a higher rate of job creation than was expected when the budget was initially presented. I refer, among other things, to the IMF's report at the end of last week, which clearly highlighted a number of issues in this area. On the other hand, the effort, as calculated by the Monitoring Committee, remained limited to EUR 313 million, as you know, partly thanks to the 749 million buffer contained in the initial budget. Although this buffer was initially mainly designed to absorb possibly lower tax revenue, it was also partly used to absorb higher expenditure. This buffer was filled in when the budget was drawn up with concrete structural measures. The results were taken directly into account in the Monitoring Committee's calculations. Tax revenue was 253 million lower than the initial budget in globo, but if we charge the tax payments and only look at the part of the tax revenue destined for the federal government, there is a negative adjustment of 146 million, which represents 0.13% of the total revenue. We now see the usefulness of this buffer and the caution we have shown. During the conclave, the government therefore decided, and Sophie Wilmès has already pointed out, to re-enter a buffer, mainly allocated to tax revenues, up to an amount of 558.8 million, a little over nine twelfths of the initial buffer, which is quite reasonable given that we are almost at the end of March. As a result, we will respect the fiscal path set for the structural deficit objective. This is the first objective of budgetary control, namely to ensure that the budget remains on track and that the target set when the budget is drawn up is achieved, no more or less. Before giving you an explanation of the technical corrections made, allow me to say a few more words about the general framework in which we find ourselves. At the end of last year, some members of this commission had described the 2016 budget as "unhappy", because it was flirting, allegedly, with the dangerous threshold of 3% of GDP. We note that the final figure will be around 2.6 to 2.7 per cent of GDP, thanks, among other things, to the more favourable than expected tax revenues that we should earn at the end of the year. The ICN (Institute of National Accounts) will determine the final figure in the coming weeks. In 2016, we managed to stay below the dangerous limit of 3%. In 2017, the switchover is to be definitively started. The nominal balance must, in 2017, definitely leave the troubled waters. Questions were asked about the technical corrections used to make the adjustment. The main one is in the context of income, in particular the notional interest in proportion to 325 million and the effects of the abolition of excess profit rulings in proportion to 100 million. I shall begin with the reduction in the reference rate of the notional interest deduction. For the 2017 revenue year, this goes down by almost a full percentage point. Not the government decides that, it's legal. Of course, the evolution of interest rates plays an important role in this. This rate goes from 1.13 % last year to 0.237 % this year. So that means that the rate is literally divided by five. By definition, this can only have a huge impact on the notional income deduction that can be charged under corporate tax. If we were simply to apply this huge reduction in the basic rate or the rate of deduction in the context of the notional interest linearly to the data we have on this subject, that would mean no less than EUR 1,35 billion in terms of notional interest deduction less in corporate tax. From the past, however, we know once again that even smaller developments in the rate of the notional interest deduction are observed, that other movements are beginning to occur. Companies will try to partially absorb this evolution of less notional income deduction by moving to other deductions. I repeat that the gross linear cost could potentially be 1.35 billion, but on the basis of the observations, the government has decided to estimate that net at 325 million. Furthermore, the excess profit ruling system disappears. This means an increase in the taxable base and thus an increase in corporation tax, estimated, again, for an amount of 100 million. Furthermore, the budgetary proceeds of the reform of the regime of the real estate vehicles are revised upwards. The report submitted by the Monitoring Committee no longer took into account a budgetary return on these real estate vehicles, initially envisaged for 2016. However, the planned reform of these vehicles will soon be fully implemented. At the end of last year, on 18 November, the Royal Decree was published on the new regime of the specialized real estate investment funds, the so-called GVF-FIIS, which focuses on the institutional investor. This will give rise to more new real estate projects under these vehicles. The reform of the regime of regulated real estate companies, the GVV-SIR, which was recently approved at the Council of Ministers on 17 March, is also in the same direction. This bill is now before the Council of State for its opinion. It extends the scope and relaxation of the regime. Both should lead to more institutional and private capital being raised for investment and, more particularly, for public infrastructure investment. On the basis of these developments, a budgetary return estimated at EUR 100 million for 2017 for GVV and GVV together can be taken into account. The return on tax regularization has also been revised upwards. This revision is also based on recent developments. Federal legislation has been fully operational since August 2016 and the first cases have already been dealt with, quite massively, in December 2016. New data: following the federal tax regularization, the various regions have also undertaken the necessary actions. In Flanders, tax regularization has been possible since 6 March 2017. Brussels and Wallonia will also be operational by the summer. In addition, the federal authorities have concluded cooperation agreements with Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, where the legislative process is under way. Within this framework, clear agreements are reached on the impact of revenues from tax regularization that relate to both federal and regional taxes. As soon as these agreements are operational, this will boost tax regularization. Therefore, an increase in the number of cases can be expected. As a result, estimates of revenue related to tax regularization on behalf of the federal authorities were increased by EUR 50 million compared to the Monitoring Committee's estimate. With regard to the proceeds relating to the special liquidation reserve, I would like to clarify this. The FPS Finance Administration correctly estimated the tax revenue from a return from the special liquidation reserve of EUR 90 million in 2016. There is therefore no correction of the estimate of tax revenue, not for 2016 and not for 2017. However, in the report of the Monitoring Committee, an error occurred in Table 55 on page 86. That table gives an overview of the one-off measures to be taken to move from the nominal balance to the structural balance. Wrong figures were included for 2016 and 2017. The adjustment of that table concerns a purely technical correction. I think that we have gone over the main points. We can see that the government's seizure and the tax burden are being further reduced. The degree of debt finally shows a nod too, but there is no doubt that this has already been clearly stated by Mr Wilmès O'Brien that we will still have to make very important additional efforts for 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u20	Thank you, Minister, Madam Minister, for the explanations. We can now proceed to an exchange of views. Each group has the floor. You do not need, as usual, to use your speaking time of five to eight minutes. I'll take the order according to the strength of the group, unless the largest opposition party wants to speak first?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u21	Mr President, I did not necessarily intend to speak first. I would like to thank Mrs and Mr. Ministers for their explanations. I would like, as an introductory request, to hear the Court of Auditors when the adjustment has been tabled. We do this automatically for the initial, but it seems to me wise to be able to also know his opinion on the adjustment and, therefore, to have an exchange of views with her on this basis. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have not obtained very precise information on the evolution of the budgetary path and the structural deficit. It would have been useful for the ministers to tell us how the adjustment will affect the budget path. Are we left with what was planned at the initial? So, are we maintaining a base that should lead us in 2018 to 2.2% structural deficit? From this point of view, we should know how high the effort should be in 2018 to reach balance – if this is still a political option. Moreover, and I ask you the question explicitly, does the government still intend, in accordance with its commitments, to achieve balance on that date? This is the most important question because the answer to it will depend on the measures which, in the words of the Minister, "will still have to be delivered" and which will inevitably require either new measures of savings or new revenue. That is why it would be wise for us to know the government's official position today. Will you maintain, yes or no, the balance goal in 2018? Then, whether you want it or not, you're going to take it from the buffer you put in place. In other words, you're going to draw some to solve your problem at the time of adjustment. This means that you are spending something that was to be used to deal with the possible negative evolution of one or the other parameter, which could put you in trouble during the fiscal year – when we are in March. In other words, after three months, you already choose to pick up a part in the buffer, which you had set, according to your figures, to 739 million. A controversy with the Court of Auditors, however, had erupted, since the Court of Auditors estimated that the buffer had increased to 482 million. The minister replied by saying that the Court of Auditors had erred. By admitting that your buffer actually amounted to 739 million, you will, from now on, look for a part on that buffer. You thus drill the mattress that would allow you to have a safety throughout the exercise and you do it after three months. What will happen in three months? What will happen in six months? You are acting recklessly, which once again translates your general policy of deferring efforts to future years. Another element, in my view, must be addressed. I am referring to the question of the new measures to be reported, which had not yet been adopted at the time of the initial stage. I am thinking in particular of the revaluation of the cost of notional interest. You explain that there is a decrease in the deduction rate from 1.31% to 0.23% between 2016 and 2017. What are the reasons why you did not have these elements when making the initial? A few weeks finally separate us from the end of the 2017 fiscal year. What are the reasons why you suddenly discover the existence of a rather dramatic drop in the OLO reference rate and therefore in the notional interest rate? We would like to have the details of the calculations and the references, from which you determine this least tax expenditure or this new form of economy. Another point I think is quite challenging. These are the 100 million you're going to look for on the excess profit ruling. It is clear that the evaluation was done with the big ladle. You say that from the moment the system is no longer operational, the corporate tax gain will be EUR 100 million. What are the material and factual elements that allow you to retain this figure? It's not nothing. It seems to me that here too, we are faced with a new hypothesis, one more. It's a little symptomatic of how you manage the budget. This is another hypothesis that is clearly not supported by anything except the fact that the system will no longer gradually be operational. Tax regularization. You explain to us that because of the cooperation agreements which still need to be finalized and implemented in each of the regions, there will be an air call which will bring additional dossiers. Assumption! Assumption! What makes it possible to estimate this at 100 million euros overall, i.e. 50 million for the federal government and 50 million for the regions? There will be a release of files and an influx of files that could generate additional revenue. Similarly, for the new real estate investment vehicle, you're adding a 50 million recipe. You do not explain to us whether, in your opinion, it will be a structural recipe or not. We know what the Court of Auditors and Europe have pointed out about these revenues linked to new measures, saying that there was a doubt about their amount. I'm talking about the initial budgets. Here, obviously, you're going in the opposite direction and you're setting 50 million euros. Here too, you will allow us to doubt what you are doing. I didn't quite understand what the cross-border project was all about. We can still ask questions in order to have a little more elements. In concrete terms, what is it? If this is reorganisation on the expenditure side and if these are savings, concretely, where are you going to look for them? How do you get to that figure? It seems to me that there is also a need for clarification. You also apply for the flexibility of the "terrorism" positions. Is that to say that you anticipate the fact that Europe will agree to consider that for terrorist expenditure, you can argue the flexibility clause that will allow you to remove this expenditure from the calculation of the perimeter, the calculation of the structural deficit, from the structural balance? Immigration, too. What allows you, once again, to be so sure? Are you sure the commission will go your way? Do you have a mail exchange? We'll remember that when we passed, we asked you to provide us with mail exchanges. And finally, where you were telling us that things were going to happen in a certain way, we were actually finding that the Commission had not yet given back a formal agreement. This had been the subject of controversy. We remember that. Another aspect that I think is important is that you are satisfied that your fiscal and economic policy is beginning to bear fruit. Let me doubt it: I do not see that the rate of public debt is being reduced dramatically; I do not find, in the explanations you provide us, a multi-year vision to clean up public finances without economic damage or social damage. For the rest, I am not a fetishist of these macroeconomic parameters, but although there may be a slight increase in the growth rate, we are still well below the euro area average. Since your government took office, you've been collecting failures. You collect deficits, debt increases, as well as a whole set of negative parameters, such as a stabilization of the employment rate. You relate to creating jobs like a buoy. Can you tell us, about the number of jobs you claim to create, what is the share of full-time jobs? And what is the share of flexi-jobs, part-time jobs, ad interim jobs? Can you provide us with a qualitative approach? I could also ask the Minister for Employment, but the fact is that you are the one who uses this argument of job creation to mask your negative budgetary balance. You justify the fact that you do not really clean up the situation at the rate at which you committed yourself by saying that it is not serious because you create jobs. We have already said that there is certainly a need to reduce the number of jobs created, but what about the quality of the jobs? These are the few questions I wanted to ask you. I ask you not to lose sight of my request for the Court of Auditors. For the rest, my colleague Mr Crusnière will certainly come back to other aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u22	As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, the tradition of the committee and the Parliament's Rules of Procedure state that we must first have a bill on budgetary control. This bill is then forwarded to the Court of Auditors. The bill will be ready within a few weeks. We do not work on the basis of tables provided in press conferences, but we need a real bill. You will have the Court of Auditors in a few weeks, without discussion, but first we need a bill. Mr Klaps has the floor for the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the relatively easy budgetary control is the result of the attracting economy, and, more importantly, it also shows that the government's economic policy is working effectively. The best proof of this was provided at the beginning of this committee meeting. Mr Laaouej's first point was about 2018, it was no longer about 2017. Instead of detail criticism on 2017 the focus is already being shifted to 2018. That is proof that we are very well on course for 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's policy is working. The first year we took courageous and necessary measures. We have made the economy competitive again. We have begun to save on public spending. We have reduced the tax burden on labour. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, according to the opposition, we were saving far too much and that we were doing inhumane and anti-social work. The same fellow Members are now saying that we will have to make considerable efforts next year and that we are not moving fast enough. Maybe you can decide what it really is. Do you perhaps want more taxes, as in any discussion about the budget, while the level of taxation in this country is still very high? We are finally beginning to reap the benefits of the policy. Indeed, growth is still relatively limited, but we have created a record number of jobs. Unemployment is falling. The employment rate is rising. The number of starters is growing. The number of bankruptcies is falling. The number of stoppages is dropping. Confidence in the economy is positive. Public debt is falling, slowly but surely, and disposable income, ladies and gentlemen, is increasing. I would like to comment on a number of points raised by Mr Laaouej. He now blames us for using a piece of the 2017 buffer in the current budgetary control. Ladies and gentlemen, if a buffer is set up for 12 months and a quarter of that buffer is used to correct after three months, then I do not think the buffer is used. I think that the buffer will be maintained; for the next nine months it will be exactly the same as for the whole year. I also hear comments about the theoretical-intelligence deduction. I think that's only natural. It is always said that the preliminary calculations should be made as correct as possible. Well, if the rate is reduced, it will have consequences in the budget. That is what happened with Prime Minister Di Rupo and now again. I think that makes sense. We must therefore continue with the policy pursued. That is the most obvious point. We must, in particular, maintain our position, ladies and gentlemen, because in the future there will be a number of risks. It is possible that interest rates may rise, which also increases interest charges. Inflation is also higher in our country than in our neighbouring countries; that is a fact. Fortunately, as a result of the revision of the 1996 law, we have ensured that it does not jeopardise competitiveness. We simply need to ensure that the agreements reached are not undermined. Moreover, the population is getting older and older. We have already taken many steps in this respect, but we must remain very vigilant in creating possible new wells. From the moment things get a little better, we need to reduce the gap so that the economy starts to spin even better. We cannot then give in to the call that will then be heard everywhere, to make additional expenditure, thus increasing the problem again. So, ladies and gentlemen, we must clean up the budget as quickly as possible by saving on public expenditure. In this way, we can reduce the level of debt and ensure that ageing costs and possibly rising interest rates remain under control. We also need to go further in the process of modernising and flexibilising the labour market, so that our employment rate, which is rising, increases even further and so that our companies remain competitive and continue to invest in infrastructure. This will ensure economic growth in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u24	Mr President, I would first like to thank the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Budget for this exchange of views. We can rejoice in that. The debate will take place in greater depth when the adjustment has been tabled, you referred to it, and with the hearing of the Court of Auditors. That is something to be stressed. I am surprised by some of the opposition's reactions. We are in the context of a budgetary adjustment and not a budget. I was able to read some statements in the press. The reforms were implemented through the 2017 budget. The next reforms will obviously come with the initial 2018 budget. Interest rates have collapsed. Notional interests are cheaper for the State. The Monitoring Committee did not take this into account. I note, however, that the government has gone further by providing for additional margins. Margins have been created for police, justice, the non-market sector, the public service and renewable energy. Unlike Mr Laaouej, I believe that budgetary prudence should be noted, since the buffer has been maintained and, for growth, you have taken a conservative basis of 1.4%, while several international bodies, not least, were down to 1.6%. I think we can all acknowledge, if we are in good faith, that this budgetary adjustment does not provide for new taxes or new savings. It's important. On the other hand, the context of growth and job creation made it possible to conclude the exercise with fewer difficulties than the previous ones. This does, however, allow some to show that this government's socio-economic choices are good. It's not just the MR group and the majority who say it, but it's independent organizations you like to mention, you too – for example, the NBB and the Federal Office of the Plan. I don't think we'll question their analysis. Moreover, we can benefit from the results of the structural reforms put in place by this government, even in budgetary terms. We therefore come to an effort limited to 313 million, which reflects the positive economic dynamics that this government has put in place, even if the effect on the budget is only gradually felt. My colleague Klaps has already referred to some positive elements: job creation, entrepreneurial dynamics, the number of bankruptcies currently at the lowest, which implies a reduction in the unemployment rate. Private consumption is improving. These are things that we can rejoice at. It is natural that the impact on the budget will be gradually felt, because, as I said, the labour market and the creation of businesses began to consolidate from 2016. The impact of all these improvements on revenues is obviously only felt with some lag. I must not, especially on this symbolic date, recall the exceptional nature of 2016, which was particularly marked by the attacks, which had an effect on the growth and confidence of households. They resulted in exceptional costs that could not have been anticipated in the preparation of the 2016 budget. Finally, the effort made here is limited but attests to the monitoring procedures that have been put in place by this government. It was decided to monitor the main items of the budget, which made it possible to monitor both revenue and expenditure. It was also decided, at the start of 2017, to put in place a buffer of 0.17%, mainly for tax revenues, as you mentioned. In this adjustment, the government is still cautious, with a buffer of about 558 million, i.e., after three months, a quarter less buffer. There will therefore be three quarters of the initial buffer, in proportion to the previous year. I would also like to highlight one element. While we can rejoice at these few encouraging elements, 2017 will not end without continuing to make efforts to keep this budget under control and to continue this fiscal consolidation, to enable us to maintain our social security system and to fulfil our European obligations. We must continue these efforts to continue to reform, to create employment, to support SMEs and to finance the social security system. As I said, these reforms, especially those aimed at reforming corporate taxes, must not stop. This is an essential task for the economic competitiveness of our companies, which we will have the opportunity to discuss again, but also to give additional impetus to our economic activity through major infrastructure works, particularly in the field of mobility. I come quickly to my two questions, because you did not have the opportunity to explain these matters in your introductory statement. The amounts of expenditure eligible under the flexibility clause amount to EUR 423.2 million. These are 232 million in asylum and 191 million in terrorism. There is always a risk that the European Commission will not take the full amount of the structural balance as provided for. Does this risk call into question the achievement of the structural balance improvement target of 1.2% in 2017? Will this improvement be guaranteed even if we finally have to take account of these expenditure on asylum and terrorism? Have you had any contacts at this stage with the European Commission on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u25	Mrs Smaers of CD&V has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u26	Mr President, thank you for this exchange of views and I thank both ministers for their clarification. There were two questions on the agenda today, but it is good to have a wider exchange of views after the announcement of the budgetary control efforts. As Minister Wilmès said, it is a matter of budgetary control. It is not a budget, it is not a big overall work for the coming year, it is a control of the figures on the basis of the path set out in the draft budget for 2017. We note that budgetary control has become an increasingly important moment in recent years to maintain the budgetary path. We see that this time too there is a deviation from the initial budget. Very positive is the confirmation that the policy is paying off on the higher number of jobs. Full commitment to employment was one of the objectives of this government. This objective is also achieved; we create more jobs than initially hoped and planned, which is good. The positive effects of the proposed policy are evident in this respect. The report of the Monitoring Committee, which is the basis and start of the government's efforts and control in the budgetary work, showed that an effort of EUR 313 million would have to be made to improve the structural balance by 1.2 % compared to 2015, i.e. over the two years 2016 and 2017. We are learning and you have also explained today that the total effort made by the government following this audit involves measures amounting to EUR 932 million, both total measures and technical corrections. On the basis of the figures released and given that a buffer of EUR 559 million is maintained, about EUR 180 million has thus been reduced from the initial buffer. So a buffer is still being maintained, which I respect and also find positive. So I think that is another positive element in this budgetary control. However, we note that the efforts, measures and technical corrections amount to more than EUR 600 million, for a large part of the technical corrections to revenue, to a lesser extent to expenditure. However, I have to make it clear that there is an important difference between the adoption of the Monitoring Committee report and the government's efforts. I'm worried about that. I'm stuck with that. I haven't heard a satisfactory answer to that. How does the government intend to deal with this in the future? The appropriate work done by the members of the Monitoring Committee at the outset should be the right basis for the start of the budgetary work. What is your view of that difference? How do you intend to deal with that in the future? Will any other instructions be given to the members of that Monitoring Committee? I also have a thought about the reduced rate for the theoretical-intelligence deduction. You have just explained this, Minister. This is a difference of more than EUR 300 million, by applying the reduced rate of the notional interest deduction. Was that a difference, as this is a consequence of a rule that was fixed, not to be foreseen in 2016? Was the total effect of the reduced rates for the notional interest deduction not to be foreseen in 2017? In addition to the good effects on employment, I would also like to nuance what Mr Klaps said about our debt. We know that our debt is always a difficult element in the budgetary negotiations. That debt does not fall fundamentally, it remains fairly stable, Mr Klaps, and flirts with the limit of 106 to 107 %. In the coming months and next year, in the next effort that will have to be made, can we not make further efforts to reduce debt? We will carry it along in the years to come. For future generations and with a view to a sustainable policy, we should be able to reduce some of that debt. It is a pity that this budgetary control can no longer be done for the deleveraging of debt. I understand that, but how do you see the further trajectory of debt disposal? I would also like to point out that, in my view, extra expenditure on Asylum and Migration needs to be monitored, once again using the flexibility clause that the European Commission also allows for such expenditure. Although the European Commission allows this, we must be vigilant and ensure that this expenditure can continue to be effectively accepted by the Commission. In my view, this will require strict control so that these expenditures are also effectively causative in relation to the necessary expenditure and the pressure on these expenditures as a result of the refugee crisis. So my question is whether the additional expenditure now included in budgetary control is indeed related to the refugee crisis, as the European Commission states in its conditions. Finally, what scope is provided for future investment, which is still needed? I also note that there has been no mention in the audit, perhaps not necessarily in the light of the work of budgetary control. My question, which I have already asked Minister Wilmès, is how do you see the release of space and capacity for the necessary investments for the coming years in relation to the investment plan? So far, my additional questions. On the one hand, I would like to congratulate you on the work you are doing to stay on course in relation to the structural improvement of our balance. On the other hand, I would ask you to be vigilant. I also have critical questions about deleveraging and the difference between the technical corrections to revenue and the efforts made in the Monitoring Committee report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u27	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing us to have this discussion here today. After all, it is important to be able to discuss a number of technical elements before, perhaps tomorrow, discussing budgetary control with the Prime Minister in plenary. You know that I, along with you, was afraid of the 2017 budget. However, the Monitoring Committee has clearly stated that the efforts of the various governments have been rewarded. If there is a deficit in the budget, it is a consequence of the policies of the various governments. If there is a better situation now, it is thanks to all the governments in this country, not only the federal but also the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels. That can also be said in this House. The switch within the government, in which the budget was entrusted to a lady, is also a positive thing. I advised Minister Wilmès to be a difficult aunt and to try to put everyone on trial. It is not easy to manage the federal budget, but the choice at the time proved to be a good thing. We shall therefore proceed to the budgetary analysis with some reassurance. I have a number of specific questions and comments. Firstly, on the money sought. There is talk of a good 932 million, of which the largest share comes from the companies. The adjustment of the notional interest deduction includes 325 million, the excess profit rulings concern 100 million, and the liquidation bonuses on withholding tax include 90 million, together with 515 million. Actually, that's an increased income from corporation tax. I have a general question about this. As far as the notional interest deduction is concerned, you propose a change in the rate from 1.13 to 0.23. I propose that the 0.50 increase for SMEs be maintained. So it's about 0.23 and 0.73. Your calculation of 325 million additional income for the company tax has thus been done by both the SME debt holders and the large companies. I suppose you've calculated which part is paid by which group? Is the additional effort of 320 million requested from large companies or from SMEs? How's the division between the two? I'd like to be clear about that. My second question concerns a missed opportunity. It was written in the stars that, due to the coupling of the notional interest deduction and the interest rate, there would eventually be a decrease. During the discussions on the reform of corporate taxation, which unfortunately is still on the table, I always thought that a general reduction in the rate would compensate for less notional interest deduction for our SMEs. Now the 325 million increase is only borne by the companies, and this is not compensated by a reduced corporate tax rate for SMEs, for which everyone in the hemisphere is, however, a requesting party. The major challenge for a change in corporate tax is to achieve more among large companies and less among SMEs, so that the already long-standing imbalance in which SMEs pay more taxes than large companies could be eliminated. However, with this budgetary control, you are giving away one of the most important instruments. With the fundamental reduction in the notional income deduction, you are now giving away one of the most important possibilities for a tax shift in the area of corporate taxation. You allow that to be included in the general budget. That is why I would like to ask you whether this 0.5 is retained for SMEs and how this measure relates specifically to large or small enterprises. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to hear from you how much is not in the budget. That's what I'm talking about. What share should not be reported to Europe? What is the total amount of budgetary control? How much for Asylum, how much for Home Affairs and how much for Defence is not included in reporting for Europe? I think it is important to know the overall amount of this. In the beginning, you said that the Planning Office does not take account of this budgetary control. However, you have taken into account the figures for the 2018 budget. To what extent will the changes you are proposing today have a structural impact on the balance of the 2018 budget? In other words, which of the measures now proposed can be called structural and will contribute to closing the gap in 2018? Finally, together with the various governments in our country, the government has announced that it will be an investment government. Many discussions have already taken place between the Prime Minister and the Prime Ministers of the region. To what extent does the current budgetary control take into account future large and necessary investments in different departments in several areas? What remains of the Investment Pact? What is the financial translation of the investment pact into the proposed figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u28	Minister, Minister, thank you for the explanation you have given us. I would particularly like to say to Mr Klaps, but also to the other speakers from the majority, that our fundamental criticism of the budget naturally remains valid, including for 2017, Mr Klaps. Don't worry. The criticism is, of course, that both the initial budget and the current budgetary control remain fundamentally unfair. What is more, while the world economy is attracting, the current government has no credit for this, nor does the previous government find blame for the then slackening world economy, and the better figures are not used to correct the injustice in the previous budgets. All the efforts that must be made will be made by the sick and the workers. By the way, Mr Klapt, you yourself refer to it by knocking on your chest in connection with the amendments to the 1996 law, but who is the biggest victim, Mr Klaps? Indeed, those are the people who work. That criticism therefore also remains valid in the context of the budgetary control we are discussing. Mr Klaps, you said that we should continue to save on public spending in order to reduce debt. Perhaps you should say that to your N-VA ministers as well. After all, which ministers requested the most? These are Mr Francken, Mr Vandeput and Mr Jambon. If you say that the government needs to cut down, then perhaps you should tell your own ministers first. By the way, you are right, like the two ministers, that the country is now doing much better with higher growth. However, I would like to reiterate that we are still below the average compared to Europe, despite the fact that the economy is attracting. So the government didn't do that well either. I now come to my comments on the calculation model. You will remember, Minister, that you said in September last year that you had had enough. The deficits in tax revenue were not your fault, but it was the administration that systematically miscalculates and overestimates things. There would be a new calculation model. A buffer was therefore included for the 2017 budget; I will come back to that later. In the meantime, we are almost half a year later, and you still do not think it appropriate to tell us what the new method of estimation is. Mr President, you have already asked for it and we have not been able to have it because the Minister did not think it was appropriate. So, Minister, where are we on the new method of estimation? At the same time, we have to note that even without the new method of estimation, it was still not as bad as tax revenue for 2017. You let me know that we're only 200 million behind schedule. Of course, we can also say that income is disappointing, while forecasted economic growth has been revised upwards since the initial budget was drawn up; you forgot to mention that. But of course that's not something to be proud of. In fact, one might expect the opposite. With an upward adjustment of the growth rate of 0.2 %, it could be expected that the income will be a windfall rather than a setback. Let us look at budgetary control itself. It's almost a hocus pocus. Without one measure, you've won about $600 million out of your hat. It is true that a part of the buffer has been addressed for this purpose. One can say that one has been predictable. I can understand that. A buffer has been realized. However, it is significant that a large part of this buffer has to be used after two months. I wouldn't be so proud of that after all. If we look at how this budgetary control is made, it is all technical corrections, but it is almost all technical corrections that result from the overrule of an estimate of the administration. We know from the past that something like this has to be corrected every time. So we already know what the future will bring us. We'll go over the point by point. Colleagues have already referred to the tariff reduction for the notional interest. It's gonna make 325 million now. Mr Minister, it is really not clear to me why this was not provided for in the initial budget. At that time they knew that, they already knew that there would be a tariff reduction. I am therefore completely unclear as to why we are suddenly registering 325 million and have not done so in the initial budget. The same applies to the excess profit rulings. It was clear since the beginning of last year that they were stopped. This too was not fully included in the initial budget. Now they're making 100 million. I would like some explanation as to why this was not included in the initial budget. I come to the return on tax regularization. The administration estimates that this 100 million will pay less for the federal government. The reason for this was that some of them obviously have to go to the regions as a result of the cooperation agreements. But I thought this was something people knew in advance. Secondly, here you are making a downward correction. The administration's talking about $100 million, you say it's only gonna be $50 million. Can you explain on the basis of what calculation this happened? With the real estate funds, we see the same story. Here too, you are putting 50 million on top of the revenue that the administration had set aside. I would have liked some more details on this too. There is also the one-off revenue in the withholding tax of 99 million, whereas the administration had not given any surplus there at all. I'd like to have a little more explanation on that. Then I'd like to talk about social fraud. It was also initially in a number of newspaper reports and in a table I found. I haven't found an effective return, but maybe I've looked over it. Perhaps you could explain how much the proceeds will be and how they will be realised. Is the fact that you keep asylum and terror out of the budget already discussed with the European Union? Is it absolutely certain that this is possible outside the budget? If I am not mistaken, this should be about unforeseen and one-off expenditure. It is difficult to say that what has happened so far in terms of terrorism is unforeseen and one-off. Almost the same applies to asylum and migration. I do not know how Europe will react to this. If you have an agreement, I would have liked to know. In the table we also see the crossborder project. The initial budget included 22.8 million. Now, two months after the start-up, it would pay half more, plus 44 million. Could you give us a little more explanation about that, too? Finally, are we still going for the balance in 2018? I suppose you're going to say "yes," as this government has been doing so all along. There's the difference, Mr. Klaps. Of course we're worried about that. If we want to achieve this and if we do not put things in order, either in the initial budget or in control, while there is a slight economic growth, and if we do not take any action, we know that these measures will come. The question to the Minister is, if the government goes for that balance, how much will the government have to save in the future. We are now talking about around 6 billion, but probably it will be even more. Was that billed? The first question is whether the government is in favour of balance. I suppose you'll still say "yes" to that. The second question is how on earth will this be achieved if we do not use any control and the initial budget to achieve that balance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u29	Mr President, much has already been said. In terms of toeneur, I am perhaps very much in favour of Mr Smaers, who has a sober, critical view of the matter, which contrasts with the euphoria of last weekend and the debate sheet by Mr Klaps. Of course, the fact that people say it's not that bad has a lot to do with what's behind us. We have come to the point that the effort that has to be made now is not so bad, but that has, of course, to do with the power of habit that wears in and the budgetary controls of recent years, which have been even more robust. Moreover, it is difficult, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, to make it clear that your recipe is working, if you know that an effort of 6.5 billion will still have to be made for the almost final year of the legislature, and that our country scores below the European average on a number of important socio-economic parameters. So that good news show isn't good for anything and is even a tad strange in the world. For many countrymen working daily, who have made a great deal of effort, the invoices of these and other governments are then returned to the high inflation rates............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Maybe I will start with the first thing that happened after the press conference, the dispute about incapacity for work and whether or not sanctions should be applied. For tomorrow's debate, it may be a good thing that you have some clarity on that point. Secondly, the buffer and the expenditure/revenue. You said that the part of the buffer you need has to do not only with revenue, but also with higher expenditure. I'd like you to think a little bit more about that. I had the feeling that Mrs Smaers was also looking forward to it. Thirdly, Mr President, I am once again inspired by a leading Christian Democrat, in particular Wouter Beke, who, over the past weekend or the weekend before, said the following about the estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u30	You are so kind to the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u31	Mr President, I think you deserve that, if you keep it up in this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u32	Now that they've taken over the ACW...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u33	In the Netherlands Jesse Klaver also wants to go with the CDA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u34	No, actually, I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u35	Green Left tends a bit towards the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u36	In the Netherlands, the greens are more sympathetic. That's my appreciation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u37	The Flemish Jesse Klaver has the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u38	I thank the Belgian Bernie. [[Laughter]] I come to my fourth question. Mr Van Overtveldt, you were invited by the committee to give an update on the work on estimates. A while ago, things were planned, but nothing seems to move. I would therefore like to give you the opportunity today to explain this. Fifthly, I would like to talk about a number of fiscal measures and additional revenue in the tax sphere. First of all, just now, when you were talking about real estate companies, it seemed like you were talking about the first EUR 100 million that these measures will bring. Is that right? That would mean the following. I have looked up the figures from the 2016 budget adjustment. This included more than 265 million euros for 2017. Does this mean that it will reduce significantly and that it will or will not be the first EUR 100 million? With regard to the notional interest deduction and the excess profit rulings, I agree with the other speakers who asked why it was not known before. Why isn't that picked up by the Monitoring Committee? That's kind of weird. As far as flexibility is concerned, I understand Mr Van Biesen's question, which asked how many flexibility clauses we are now dealing with. I have just made the exercise for the current budgetary adjustment, and it concerns EUR 422 million of measures that are pushed under the flexibility clause. That's not very small. That's even a lot. The criteria have been mentioned by Mrs Temmerman: exceptional, one-off. I think this is very difficult to make for the anti-terrorist measures. Moreover, regarding Asylum and Migration, we have a Secretary of State who honks day after day that everything is under control, which closes shelters, but in contrast, you now add a large portion of Asylum and Migration under the flexibility clause. I don't understand that very well. On the one hand, it is said to be completely under control, and on the other hand it is said to be one-off, unpredictable additional expenditure. Those are two things for me that are hard to rhyme. The question is what Europe is going to say about that. Do you have any formal confirmation on that? It is then to be hoped, for these and other reasons, that the European Commission will not follow Theo Francken's Twitter, because it is difficult for me to reconcile these two issues. There are a number of things that aren't in it. I will talk to the Prime Minister about the tax reform tomorrow. You mentioned earlier that I should not ask you any more questions, Mr Van Overtveldt, because that is entirely with the Prime Minister. It goes without saying that we are still hungry there. I agree with Mr Van Biesen on this point. I need to speak to Voka Mechelen tonight pending your arrival. I suspect there will be a lot of support for a corporate tax reform there. That is not going to happen, as is the fair contribution of the greatest capabilities. Tomorrow, I will question the Prime Minister about his commitment to this matter. Two aspects which do not appear and which I would like to discuss with you today are as follows. Firstly, the investment pact. Our group has itself taken the initiative to set up a path in this area, BE.invest. I invite everyone to participate. I was always told that the investment pact announced by the Prime Minister was about a relatively short term with a long-term perspective. Then where are these euro debt instruments in this budgetary adjustment? In October, we promised to do something about this, which was not achieved in the initial budget and which was not taken into account in the budgetary adjustment, which I find very strange and very regrettable. Then, and finally, once again, to my Christian Democratic colleague, Mr Robles Piquer, where did ARCO go in the table? In this respect, the Prime Minister said in the State of the Union that 2017 will be the year of ARCO. During the period of the State of the Union, a link was not mistakenly suggested between dropping the added value tax and the solution for ARCO. Only, whatever the solution around ARCO, there will be some impact on the state finances. I don't find that here. Mrs Wilmès, Mr Van Overtveldt, quid ARCO, such as quid investment pact, matters which I expected to be included in the budget adjustment but which I have not yet found. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for your presence. I will not blame you for holding a triumphalist speech full of self-satisfaction. I listened to you very well. I heard an extremely cautious speech, with caution from Sioux. I heard an owl! as if you had escaped the worst. Finally, we're getting away with less harm. The effort was less important than feared and one manages to cash it without causing too much harm to each other. Let me tell you that I do not fully share your of! [[relief.]] Indeed, I have the feeling that you don't lose anything to wait. I would like to mention a number of things that cause me real concern. I must admit that I am not reassured after what I heard this afternoon, and I would like to list the points that justify this concern. First of all, I think your communication is really minimalist. You're trying to get between the drops so we can talk as little as possible about the issue. This Sunday's press conference boils down to the phrase "no new taxes, no new savings". With this one is already relatively relieved. Having said that, the chairman of the committee had to do a bit of forcing so that a debate could take place in this committee and it was a little counter-heart that the majority agreed to come back tomorrow in plenary on the subject. This method of sweetening or minimizing communication does not reassure me, especially since you were extremely laconic at the time of your presentation. I am thinking in particular of you, the Minister of Budget, who has distributed a table on a page A4 that sums up budgetary control. I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for commenting on the five lines that concern him and for providing some explanation. But for the rest, not a word has been said. I therefore invite you, the Minister of Budget, to elaborate on what is behind each line. In particular, a number of corrections have been found to be negative since the expected performance of certain measures taken previously is not verified or because new elements are involved (e-commerce, gauge, accountability, harmonisation, credit-time, career interruption, performance of the waiting period, material error on the asbestos fund, volume effect, social integration, masterplan). All of these points would deserve a word of introduction. What do we find behind all this? Can you tell us more and go beyond the wording of this line and the number in the column? In order for this exchange to be useful for something, it would be interesting for us to receive an explanation of these points from you. I am thinking in particular of posts which have been positively corrected. Some colleagues spoke of the "Crossborder" project. What is the 45 million? What about the repayment of SNCB's overpayment of $39 million? All of these positions should be detailed. With regard to SNCB, for example, we do not have the impression that it lives above the strict minimum. I would like you to be more explicit on these different aspects. A second thing I am not reassured about is the use you make of macroeconomic parameters. In essence, you suggest that employment and growth figures are ultimately better than expected. You write this improvement to your credit, by imputing it to the structural reforms decided by the government. I have to confess that the truth appears to me quite different. Indeed, we are witnessing an improvement in growth prospects throughout the euro area, which also benefits our economy - but less than elsewhere. I'd like to insist on that. Madam Minister, you have indicated that growth rates are better than expected, but they are still below the euro area average. The increase in the employment rate is also lower in Belgium. Without wishing to open up a controversy, we know well that studies show that the purchasing power in our country has diminished and that we are perhaps the only country in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u40	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u41	I am well aware that a discussion is under way in this regard. Still, we cannot succeed better than our neighbours. That is why, with regard to macroeconomic parameters, I call on you to be more cautious, especially since the geopolitical issues we are going to face are serious threats to the future. In the case of Brexit, we are now going to get into the heart of the subject. It won't be without consequences. The election of the new President of the United States and its somewhat surprising positions on world trade are also cause for concern. I would like to ask you to be cautious before I welcome the elements that are improving, if only because they are improving to a lesser extent than in other European countries. Third element of dissatisfaction, you say that there will be no new taxes, no new savings. Do you really hope that the population will forget everything that has been decided in the past? I would have liked to see some corrective measures in the past. In the initial budget, you have focused on social security and in the health sector, with strong measures, which have been added to previous measures such as the increase in VAT on electricity, the rapid entry into force of the increase in excise duties aimed at financing the tax shift. However, there are no measures to correct the effect of all previous negative measures. It is therefore not to be believed that the population will make leaps of joy by learning the absence of new taxes. It has paid enough so as not to welcome this minimal budgetary adjustment today. Fourthly, I note in the table that you provide us with a number of ad hoc measures. You recognize him, by the way. Yet you count them, unless I'm mistaken, in the calculation of the structural balance. For example, the 24.5 million concerning the possibility of buying back periods of study for the calculation of the pension, the 50 million linked to the tax regularisation, the 90 million linked to the exceptional liquidation reserve relating to the household discount, are all one shot measures. I would like to stress this because it complicates the prospects for the recovery of the structural balance in the long term. Fifth, the CDH has always supported the need for the precautionary measure of buffer. Previous exercises show that bad surprises are common and must be addressed. However, this buffer is melting like snow in the sun. We're now at 558 million euros, if I'm not mistaken. Less than a year ago, in July 2016, the Monitoring Committee pleaded for a buffer of more than one billion euros. And so, starting with a proposal, with a suggestion of more than one billion euros, we went to the initial 2017 to 739 million. We now have 558 million euros. Your argument that "we'd have on the nine twelfths" is not very convincing as there is no update of tax revenues. We know that's where there's a problem. I think that you are optimistic about the prospects ahead and that by reducing the buffer, you may complicate future fiscal years, all the more so – and that is my sixth element – because there is nothing about tax revenue. The Minister of Finance has confirmed this. There are no updates. However, you explained how aware you were of the difficulties, errors or impasses in estimating tax revenues, to the point that you set up a working group. To be honest, it is not reassuring to see that you are still unable to deliver the results of this working group, if they are provisional, since you have refused, Mr. Minister, to come here to the committee for an exchange of the first conclusions of the working group. I very much regret that. Of course, the discussion can always be enriched and other forums will have to give their recommendations. However, this real need to update tax revenues and validate calculation methods is somewhat delayed. Finally, it seems that there is only one measure that has entered into force. This is what you called for from your wishes, from a consolidation of Budget and Finance services. This afternoon, we have the impression that the Minister of Finance clearly took the hand, took the ascendant, and that the budget presentation is really reduced to the congruent portion. I say this a little bit in the end, but at least I really regret that at the end of March 2017, we do not have a state of affairs on the part of the government on this important work, which is fundamental to the reflection and updating of the estimation methods used by the FPS Finance. The seventh element, which, in my view, removes much credibility from your budget adjustment, is new initiatives, new spending. There are four parties in the majority and, as a coincidence, in the new spending, there are four lines, each of fifteen million. There is a little for everyone: 15 million for the police, 15 million for the judiciary, 15 million for Mrs De Block and the non-market, 15 million for the energy transition. Each party received its small positive reinforcement. This removes any credibility from the work that has been done. You found a small margin of 60 million and distributed it fairly among the parties of the majority. This does not give the impression that you have taken real needs into account and responded objectively. This is a purely political approach. If you deny this, I invite you to explain what these amounts correspond to in the areas of police, justice, non-trade and energy. What will you be able to do with these fifteen million? The eighth element, because of which I am not reassured by your budgetary adjustment, is what is not there. There is nothing about corporate tax and this expected and necessary reform. Some agree on this. You will tell me that it is not in a budgetary adjustment that such an important reform can be implemented. I agree with that view. But, given the passage of time, the reform cannot be implemented in 2017. Perhaps she will be able to do so at a later stage. In the meantime you have already eaten all the potential sources of financing of this reform: you have decided to increase the household discount from 27 to 30 % in the initial budget and, here, you are eating almost completely the gain due to the decrease in notional interest. As you explained: with the reduction of the reference rate from 1.31 to 0.23%, you are saving. And so the notional interests, which might have been thought to be an important item to finance corporate tax reform, are swallowed up in the efforts being made to keep the budget afloat. You are depriving yourself of opportunities to finance corporate tax reform. Perhaps that is why you said that this reform would probably not be fiscally neutral. It's not reassuring, because you'll let your successors manage the impact. Indeed, if the reform is implemented, at best in 2018, you will not have to bear the consequences of its budgetary impact. This is a major source of concern and regret that we have for this reform, which is necessary and expected. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the cdH group has tabled proposals on the table and that you can take them up. This delay may ultimately complicate the control of the budgetary impact of this reform. Ninth element of dissatisfaction, which other colleagues have also pointed out: the total absence, unless I am mistaken, of mention of public investment. We were told of a plan to mobilise investment capacities at all levels of the Belgian state. Major investments were announced in the areas of mobility, energy, security and the digital agenda. The government had announced several billion euros, and still nothing! When will this happen? What is the deadline? When will you be able to switch from ad effects to the announcement of facts? Last element: the trajectory. We agree on the 2017 adjustment, but it is difficult to ignore the deadline for returning to fiscal balance. What will happen in 2018 and beyond? How much do you estimate the effort to be made beyond the 2017 fiscal year to achieve fiscal balance in 2018? This is an important question, which allows me to link up with what has been said about the announcements made by the Planning Office. Are we at 3.6 billion or are we far beyond? Are we at 0.8 or 1.5%? This is still a very important issue. I would like to hear from the government on the costing of the effort to be made, as it stands, beyond this adjustment, in the run-up to Budget 2018. It is not to be expected that the question will be asked; it is to be part of a form of multi-annual coherence, of which one cannot, of course, depart. On this point, I would like to have the figures in order to be reassured (or not) about the government's ability to achieve its own goals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u42	Minister, Minister, I first have a question of understanding the buffer. I understood that a buffer was used to reduce effort and not to increase it. But here, you use the buffer to increase the effort to be made. I'm trying to figure it out. Either it had not been budgeted, or you have already used it entirely after three months and you have to rebuild it. Could you enlighten me on this? On the other hand, there are two possible readings of this budgetary adjustment. Pessimistic reading and optimistic reading. The pessimistic reading is to say that your adjustment is rather imprudent, that the figures are not really well founded. It is true that a billion corrections to what the Monitoring Committee has given as figures are still a lot. One wonders if they should not give their C4 to the members of the Monitoring Committee or the minister. We wonder who deserves his C4. A billion correction, it's still huge. There is also an optimistic reading: we have a favourable situation; I am of course talking about the international situation; this is not going to be attributed to government reforms, which are rather counterproductive in my view. Therefore, this good international situation makes it possible to create margins. What should they be used for? To loosen the stranglehold of austerity that you have put on the Belgian population, especially on social security, with the incredible cuts that you have made. It would be an opportunity to loosen that vice. Obviously, you decide not to. You are looking forward to this fiscal adjustment, and you are taking this opportunity to tell us that employment is good, that this government's bulletin would be excellent. On the contrary, I find that this bulletin is not good at all! The international situation is favourable! I see Mrs Wilmès is collapsed but don't cry! As far as the deficit is concerned, you tell us that you are keeping the course for 2017. In any case, I observe that the recent estimates of the National Bank, the European Union or the OECD are more pessimistic than your forecasts. And I'm only talking about this year, because as far as 2018 is concerned, you're not going to cry anymore, Mrs Wilmès, but perhaps consider suicide. As for the debt, it does not decrease. For social security, the situation is catastrophic. Not only have you decided on budgetary restrictions, but also, the tax shift has definanced the ECU item to the tune of EUR 4 billion. The reform of the security that you are about to undertake also undermines the foundations of its financing. The employment rate is not increasing. Looking at ONSS figures for the last two years, out of six jobs created, only one is full-time - the others are precarious jobs. That's a huge problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u43	Precarious budget, precarious jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u44	Indeed! Only 12,000 full-time jobs have been created in two years. I come to a question about the financing of social security to conclude your bad newsletter. In the 2017 budget, you have implemented the reform of social security, which has not yet been voted on. This provision fixes alternative financing on the basis of a fixed rate of revenue in terms of VAT and personal income. As I understand that these tax revenues are falling, I ask you whether the financing of the security is still assured. This is not clear from your explanations. For all those who care about the balance of social security - this may not be the case with the government... - this issue is of paramount importance. So you're telling us about the structural that "thanks to our adjustment, we're staying on target of -1.11%". What about the nominal? I think you set the nominal target at 1.70 at the end of 2017. Are you staying there too on 1.70 or is that a different number you're arriving at? Finally, a few questions about your corrections. Variance, $50 million in accountability. Can you tell us what this is about? Asbestos fund, material error. It's true that I've been looking a little bit at the asbestos fund. What happened at the asbestos fund level and what is happening now is not clear. I also note that there is a material error. So if you could explain that. Compared to terrorism expenditures, 165 million and 58.3 million. Is this included in the nominal, in the structural? How do you do it? How are these corrections taken into account? On notional interests, I have two questions. First, a question about the rate. You tell us that the rate has risen from 1.35 to 0.325. When I read the Income Tax Code, section 205ter, I read that: "the applicable rate is equal to the average of the benchmark indices J for ten-year linear bonds in July, August, September, therefore in the third quarter, of the penultimate year preceding the year in which the year refers to the tax year". It's legal, but that means, Mr.Minister of Finance - I'm trying to follow the path of your rate drop - that in 2017, corporations are paying their advance payments. That's what you rely on, the advance payments companies pay in 2017. They will take into account the notional interest rate. These notional interests are those that will be determined in fiscal year 2018 for the penultimate year, that is 2016. So it is the third quarter 2016 that serves as the reference for advance payments paid in 2017? That's what we're interested in. Or it is even notional interests before if we count fiscal regularizations. My question is this. The third quarter 2016 OLO rates, I assume, have been known for a long time. If this is not the case, we have to explain why. Is my reasoning correct? How is it that it is only now that we learn that this rate would fall? My second question on notional interest concerns the switch from crude to net. You estimate a net return of $1.35 billion gross but net, it's only $325 million. How do you get from one to the other? As far as the excess profit rules are concerned, I think we were more than 900 million to repay by the 30 or so multinationals concerned. You've already tapped into this reserve to find revenue for the budget. How do you suddenly take 100 million? What's left? What is your reasoning? Will you continue to draw a little each year? What are you relying on? As far as tax regularization is concerned, do we already know how much money went into the caisses in 2017? Finally, Minister of Finance, how do you judge the decision of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office to dispose of the 36 billion laundered capital in the garbage, following the disclosure to the Public Prosecutor's Office of 61,000 cases by the ISI in Ghent? There was still a potential €36 billion worth of money that could have been used. We could've really found some recipes. In terms of your 50 million, it's much higher.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u45	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their explanation. I would also like to thank you for having organised this meeting, which seems to be a bit in spite of the Conference of Presidents, as you have said. Mr President, at the same time I am a little disappointed in you. Just a little bit. As long as I was a majority member, you always helped the opposition a little on your blog. Mr Calvo always made use of it. Now that I'm a member of the opposition, you've stopped. I hope I don't have to take this personally. I thought it was a bit odd that nothing about budgetary control appeared on your blog.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u46	It's coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u47	It's coming? At least I'm looking forward to it. I've scrambled back a little bit, and I've seen that between December 1st and December 15th you were in a particularly fertile period. You then wrote four pieces entitled 'a high-risk budget'. The original sins contained in the December 2016 budget are still in the 2017 budget. It is still about the additional revenue that has been sought: the stock exchange tax, the fuel cards and, above all, the withholding tax, which has been dramatically increased from 15% to 30% over five or six years. These are all taxes that are largely paid by the Flemings. This is certainly the case with the withholding tax. It appears that the regional indicators are not taken into account. I also note that the budgetary targets are always lower and that people always say: 'Look how well we have jumped over it'. Two years ago it was said that there could be a deficit of 1% in 2017. The deficit is now structurally fixed at 1.3 % and nominally at 1.7 %. According to some sources, that percentage will even be higher in reality. The bar is lowered from along, to say: 'Look how well we have jumped over it.' In fact, it is a great luck that we did not entrust the government with the organisation of the Tour of Flanders in 2014 when the Michel government was formed. Otherwise, in 2014 it was 290 kilometers, in 2015 it was 150 kilometers, in 2016 it was 100 kilometers, and in 2017 it was 50 kilometers. Then one would say: "Look, all Belgians can ride out of the Tour of Flanders." That is a bit of what we are doing with the bar of the budget. There is also a lot of magic with numbers and concepts. I would, of course, like to know whether that balance is still on the agenda in 2018 or is that something that will be lowered? I would also like to know what is going on with the Monitoring Committee, which is being overruled and rebuked. This is a bit peculiar for a committee that is supposed to be made up of specialists, isn't it? Of course, the flexibility clause is also widely used. I would like to know how much is left out of the budget. A number of technical corrections have been made, but this does not prevent the difficult dossiers from still existing. There are the famous triplets: the activation of savings, the reform of corporate tax and the added value tax. The Prime Minister has drawn all this to him. He also drew Zaventem's noise standards towards him. It is understandable that the Prime Minister makes statements in the media that there are too many ministers. He may be able to do it all himself if he removes such important files from the Minister of Finance. There is also the mobility budget and the retirement trap. These are all things that are being pushed out for themselves. The response of the long-term sick immediately led to an argument. That seems to have been patched up. There would be light at the end of the tunnel. I would like to know if there is any effective light at the end of the tunnel. The majority talk a lot about job creation. That's right, but I'd like to hear about what kind of jobs this is about. Some fellow Members say it is about very precarious jobs. How many of those jobs are effective full-time? How many jobs are interim status? How many are part-time? The government has started with the slogan "Change" "Change." It would all be different. The PS wasn't in the government and so on. However, the government debt is still significant and you will understand that word well above 100 % and the government debt is still significantly above 50 %. I believe that I have used the word'significant' in the correct sense here. It is not by chance that we read immediately that, according to Europe, this budgetary control will be the minimum minimum. I come to my final point. What's going on with the Planning Bureau anyway? There are problems with the Monitoring Committee, which is being overruled. What's going on with the Planning Bureau? Today's De Tijd says that €6.5 billion would be needed for 2018. Budgetary control finally teaches us two things. Firstly, all my fellow Members, including myself, have asked the question, as you know, professors often ask questions to which they already know the answers, whether the balance will be reached in 2018. I know the answer to that question. Most of my fellow Members also know the answer. It will be "no" because it has become a virtually impossible task. Secondly, I am very pleased to say that I am even very grateful to the government for this. You've really proven that now. You always said you could. You would put the accounts in order and then, in 2019, put other items on the agenda. I hope that it is beginning to dawn, that you are beginning to see that, if you really want to get the accounts in order, you will have to do so in a large, global movement, with a state reform. At that time we will be able to save money on the institutions, in an area or a domain in which people are not hurt and no one feels it. On the contrary, we will be able to ensure greater efficiency and transparency, because now a cat will no longer find its young in these institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u48	Dear Ministers, I would like to ask two questions myself, which have been raised by various groups. A first question is about the deficit. The nominal deficit last year was 2.6 % to 2.8 %, depending on the source. Let me keep it at 2.7 %. It is intended to bring this to 1.7 % in 2017. Those percentages on the nominal deficit are given in the general explanatory notes. On the structural deficit, I read from the Minister for the Budget who just confirmed that the government wants to achieve a structural deficit of 0.8 % in 2017. The structural deficit would therefore be below 1%. In 2016, the structural deficit was 2%. 1.2 % goes off, bringing it to 0.8 %. That is at least the structural ambition for the 2017 budget. The Planning Bureau states, according to what I read in the press, that the structural deficit for 2017 would be 1.3 % and 1.5 % in 2018. The discussion has been going on for a long time. The nominal deficit would be increased from 2.7 % to 1.7 %. Is that the government's ambition with the current budget control? The structural deficit would be increased from 2% to 0.8 %, a decrease of 1.2 %, whatever Europe has asked us to do. The press conference talked about a sustainable structural deficit below 1% of GDP and the figure is in the documents: 0.8 %. However, the Planning Bureau says that the structural deficit will reach 1.3 %, and the European Commission is even talking about an even higher figure in its latest calculations. I would like to know from the government what ambition it has for the nominal and structural deficit in 2017. The debate on balance does not need to be held today, but it is, of course, linked to this. If one has to go from 0.8 % in 2017 to 0 in 2018... That effort is of course much greater if one has a structural deficit of 1.5 %. That explains the figure of the Planning Bureau, which speaks of 6.5 billion, but I do not want to comment on that. It is also good for the committee to know that it is being looked at from different angles. A second matter concerns the committee for some time, namely the evolution of revenue. A study by the Ministry of Finance has shown that there is nothing wrong with the estimation method. It's good, but there are two other problems. Firstly, the macroeconomic assumptions. Of this, the Ministry of Finance says that it is not responsible for this, because it is the Planning Bureau and the Government that say in what direction the economy will evolve. Secondly, there may be a problem with the proceeds of the new measures that have been taken. Is the government actually based on higher revenue for 2017? Is the reasoning that thanks to the notional interest, the real estate or the withholding tax, it will do the EUR 600 million better than the Monitoring Committee has proposed? So we can actually expect more revenue, while last year the whole discussion was about the lack of revenue. For 2016 we can see that it has been all well. The Monitoring Committee report states that the results for 2016 are relatively good, as there are a lot more revenue from corporate tax. For this year, too, the Monitoring Committee sees that the company's stores will raise 814 million more and that there will be 129 million more and 364 million more respectively. These two issues are linked to the economic situation and to macroeconomic developments and not to the method of estimation as such. We see less revenue for excise duties, VAT and withholding tax. This may be linked to the new taxes collected, the result of which is not always predictable. My question, Minister, is what progress has been made with this new method of estimation. There was a meeting with the National Bank, the Planning Bureau and the FPS Finance. It could therefore be expected that the new method of estimation will give us different types of prospects for the large items, namely corporation tax and corporate withholding tax. However, that is absolutely not the case. What is the outcome, after budgetary control, where we can actually expect relatively more revenue, unlike last year, when it was 2 billion less? What's the conclusion of that story? Is the interpretation I'm giving you wrong? These questions were raised by the various groups. The government's banks have been asked to take a five-minute technical break. I suggest that we proceed with the answers afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we leave the government to speak for the answers. The Minister for the Budget has the floor for the answers. Then the Minister of Finance will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u50	Mr President, I will do my best to respond in the right order. I've taken notes. Firstly, I would like to point out, in the work that has been done, in relation to the tables you have received and the work done during the conclave, that the figures you see are to be taken on the basis of the report of the Monitoring Committee. These are not corrections to the original budget. So you have a diaper in between. This is important because the reasoning is not the same as if it were corrections to the original budget. So to read this table well - and you will have time before the budget debate - we have to take the Monitoring Committee, read it in its analysis and then, on the basis of the Monitoring Committee report - since the table is based on 313 million - we take the Monitoring Committee, we are working on the corrections made by the Monitoring Committee. So you will have understood that sometimes these are corrections. Either corrections are made to what has not been corrected or corrections are made. So when you read this table, you have to understand that principle well, otherwise you may be wrong. Of course, in order to make its report, this Monitoring Committee has based itself on changes in the totality of revenue and expenditure, therefore on an update of revenue, because I have heard that "revenues have not been updated". But if they have been updated, that is the very objective of the budgetary adjustment. The full amount of revenue and expenditure has been updated, also on the basis of the report of the Federal Planning Office. In February, the Commission updated macroeconomic data. Whether you like it or not, you can find answers in the sense you want, but the report of the Federal Office of the Plan shows that growth over expected growth is increasing, and that the number of jobs created is also increasing compared to the number of additional jobs created. That's objective data. As regards the result of this work in terms of the budgetary trajectory. First of all, I would like to make an important incise. We are talking today to frame the whole, but what will be legal is the budget documents that will be tabled. It's very important because the budget is like a toothpaste job. It is a very large work and all small variations up and down play. When we talk about nominal or structural deficits, we talk about GDP as a percentage: 0,xxx%, it can change the situation. So, for 2017, I can tell you in broad terms that we should stay in the 0.8%. The objective of control was to remain within the government's target of 1.2 per cent. I will not quote you today a more precise percentage because the job of the SPF is precisely to put everything on paper, to put everything on music. It is therefore interesting to have a debate when the documents are tabled and not before, because at least we are talking about certain figures. Of course, the figures we are discussing today take into account the updating of the thresholds. "What was 2016?" They also outline the re-evaluation of income and expenditure. Much reference has been made to other institutions. I am thinking in particular of the leak in the press on the report of the Federal Planning Office. It must be noted that the press receives the latter before me. This is part of the joyous work of the minister. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u51	I received it today, while the article was published this morning. In any case, you often refer to other institutions, which is not uninteresting. However, while many communications were made on the deficits planned by the National Bank, the European Commission, much less information was circulated when it turned out that the projected deficits were not accurate. I'll explain. In December 2016, for example, the National Bank estimated that the nominal deficit for 2016 would be 3%. However, it is 2.6%. A difference of 0.4% is a big difference! We're close to the excessive deficit or we're not. In February 2017, the European Commission informed us that at the end of 2016 – so retroactively – Belgium's deficit would be 2.9%. Far from criticizing the process, I just want to take this opportunity to show the relevance and accuracy of the figures because they are only assessments made by outside agencies at various times. So, by definition, they will not take the same macroeconomic or other assessments, but also because they have different models. We know, for example, that in its projections of what the balances will be, the Federal Office of the Plan has so far been more pessimistic than we are. I'm not talking about his macroeconomic assessments. It is also known, by definition, that the Federal Office of the Plan does not take all measures. It is also known that the Federal Office of the Plan, when speaking, does so on behalf of Belgium, thus entity 1 and entity 2. I understand, and I guess it's not voluntary, that there's a way to get confused in the numbers. But the figures we're talking about here are entity 1 figures. It is our figures in relation to budgets that are tabled by the administration. The figures we have just heard are the figures of the Federal Bureau of the Plan with its model for Belgium and not for entity 1. There! As far as this famous report is concerned, contacts have been made to see what the status of this report is. It's a provisional report. I am told that the request can be made to Minister Peeters without difficulty. I still insist on putting things in perspective because we shout a lot to the wolf and then, when we look at things a little bit, we realize that the reality is probably a little different from what we're trying to make believe. I also understand the issues related to 2018, but I recall that the fiscal year is for the 2017 adjustment. This is not a new multi-annual exercise. Has the government changed its point of view with regard to the 2018 balance? No. If that had been the case, I think he would have announced it. Does he think that the objective is very ambitious? Yes, and the Prime Minister confirmed it. For my part, and I speak in my personal capacity, do I think that balance in 2018 is an absolute fetish? I don't think so. What matters, and we are working on it, is to resolutely follow the path of fiscal consolidation, which must also take account of the reality and therefore of 2016. It also means avoiding measures that could collide with economic development – and we have not taken them. As you know, a budgetary balance is fundamental. We would not like to place on the shoulders of our children any decisions that are currently being taken. On the contrary, we want to offer them positive reforms. On the other hand, if you have a budgetary balance, but without growth or employment, this balance will not be maintained for long, so that counterproductive measures will have to be continued. It's a personal point of view. In short, the government remains in the perspective of a fiscal balance in 2018. He has not changed his mind in this area. The goal for 2017 is still to reach -0.8. That's what we worked on. But, as I told you, it is too early to give you the figures to the decimal point. The buffer is not a mattress. It's not the housework that puts money aside for the sad days. This is not a buffer: These were additional measures taken at the time, to ensure that we would do well 1.2%. The approach has not changed. It remains cautious, since we continue to take a buffer when we have re-evaluated tax revenues on the basis of a reality that is closer today, since we are in the course of the year, than the one that took six months before the initial was achieved. Indeed, you know that we are working from July, August and September to make the 2017 initial. I'm going to flexibilization. I will remind you of the principles. At the time, when expenditure had been made more flexible for the first time, in the fight against terrorism and radicalism, contacts had been made with the Commission. We have very frequent contacts with the Commission, which is normal since we are trying to work constructively with this institution, as with others. At the time, we had encouraging signals to flexibilize the terro amounts. It was only later that we received a letter confirming that we could make them more flexible. In the case of asylum, we are doing exactly the same thing. We have had encouraging contacts. I sincerely believe that we have extremely convincing arguments, especially since these amounts are provided. These are not amounts that are placed directly in the basic allowances and could therefore be considered as ongoing business. We're not in there at all. This is a provision that will be released as needed on the ground. When comparing the amounts dedicated to reception and asylum with the pre-crisis of asylum, there is no photo. There's really something to relax about. I will send a formal request to the European Commission to do so. As far as guarantees are concerned, it is not because a letter from the European Commission is received that there are guarantees on the terro or asylum. These are ex post expenditure analyses. They must meet a number of criteria. I think that we are meeting these criteria, because by taking the case of asylum, not all the expenditure related to this area is flexibilised. It is the upward movements, exceptional in nature, that are. It's the same for the terro, we don't make the entire spending in the interior, in the police, in the courts. Only expenditure on the crisis is made more flexible. In addition, only expenditures that are not recurrent are flexibilised. At several levels, we have processes of prudence, which correspond to the demands of the European Commission. There was a question about the cross-border. These are lines that match the differential between the Monitoring Committee table and us. There has been a decline in the entry into force of the cross-border project, which the Monitoring Committee had not taken into account. In the table, the line of 44.9 corrects the Monitoring Committee. These are expenses that we will do less because we have half of the expenses less in operating expenses if we start on July 1. In terms of tax revenue, this was a correction that the Monitoring Committee had not taken. How much is not included in the budget compared to the commissions? You understand that all expenditure is included in the budget, even if it is flexible. All expenditure and revenue shall be entered in the budget. The difference is that flexibilisation helps us to get the effort of 1.2 %. The bottomline, however, is that they are included in the budget. I remember very well that we had that discussion last time. It's exactly the same principle. It was a question of Mr. Van Hees, who's gone, about the two lines. The 165 million terro flexibilisation are the amounts that we are making more flexible, but not the whole of the terrorism envelope because, as I explained to you, we only take into account the non-recurring expenditure that we are making more flexible the whole of the terro envelope. The $58.3 million is a correction to the table, i.e. we have multiannual forecasts of the expenditure we are going to make in terro. This table changes according to calls for tender, the accuracy of expenditure upwards or downwards, and also timing. What is shown in this table for the terro provision in relation to the initial? A decrease of $58 million, because these projects are postponed in 2018 and 2019. Not that we don't want to do them, but because technically, they won't be done in 2017. To those who misunderstood that, in total, money was being removed from the terro, I can assure you that this is completely incorrect, because the update of the terro table at the multi-annual level gives us an increase of 6 million. The entire project remains on the table. With regard to the financing of the ECU, balance allocation is well included in the calculations of the Monitoring Committee, there is no need for concern. For the Asbestos Fund, this is indeed a material error. Mr. Dispa, you talked about one shot. They are all named in the budget and we use the definition of the European Commission every time. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u52	First of all, I would like to repeat two things which are very important. I'll do two important rehearsals of what Sophie Wilmès just said. The first is that it is very important to say that the figures that are now falling or are being discussed are always deviations from monitoring. The Monitoring Committee has developed figures, and all the technical adaptations discussed today are incremental adaptations with the Monitoring Committee. Secondly, we are completely orthodox from the budgetary point of view with regard to the buffer. Indeed, we keep it for nine twelfths of the original amount of 749 million. We are at the end of March and I think we can say that we are completely orthodox in the treatment of the buffer. The amount of 559 million that remains in this buffer is the result of a very conservative and orthodox way of dealing with it. I will now answer a number of specific points which have been raised in the various questions and then come back to a number of more general points. As regards the notional interest deduction, the reference interest rate could indeed be fixed during the second half of last year. For the sake of clarity, Mr Van Biesen, this has indeed been completed for large companies from 1.13 to 0.24 and for SMEs from 1.63 to 0.74. About one third of the total is borne by SMEs. The rest is for the larger companies. Why did that adjustment happen now? Because we know from the past that the amount that ultimately comes out of the bus when adjusting the notional income deduction gives rise to a number of shifts that are very difficult to trace individually. A company that receives a rather large notional interest deduction, but previously did not use any other subtraction or hardly any other subtraction, can, for example, use other subtractions, which are also available to that company, when the notional interest deduction falls. That analysis, which we have now been able to make much more refined, has led us to the conclusion that where we are purely linear... Linearly speaking, we are talking about an amount of $1.35 billion. Of this gross, linear amount, the government has decided to keep 325 million for notional interest. In relation to the excess profit rulings, the excess profit rulings were created at the time, before this government, to confer a tax advantage on a number of companies. That is why the European Commission has finally come up against this system. This system is now disappearing and therefore these companies will be subject to corporate tax without being able to rely on the modalities of an excess profit ruling as previously, which gives rise to an adjustment in the figures compared to the Monitoring Committee of 100 million. I'd like to come back to the theoretical-intelligence deduction. I've read in the last few days that this is a tax increase. That is, of course, completely wrong. The notional interest deduction evolves as a function of the taxable base, being the set of own funds taken into account and the evolution of interest rates. Of course, the notional interest deduction would be a tax reduction if, in the event of an increase in interest rates, the deduction possibilities would increase. So this is really an argument that is not correct, that people like to spread, but which I do formally oppose. Then there was a specific question on tax regularisation. The Monitoring Committee says that the proposed 250 million is actually 150 million federal and 100 million regional entities. I would like to remind you that there are three parts to tax regularization. It consists of three parts: a federal part, for all matters relating to federal taxation; a regional part, for all matters relating to regional taxation; and a kind of black box, for amounts whose source is uncertain. In this case, the agreements with the Regions provide for a half-half division. This was discussed in the negotiations with the regions which led to these cooperation agreements. What has changed in relation to the time when the budget was drawn up is that the cooperation agreements have also been concluded effectively. It became very clear that the lack of cooperation agreements prevented the tendency to make declarations. What are we doing in practice? Where did the 50 million come from? The Monitoring Committee speaks of 150 million federal, 100 million regional. We are adding 50 million to the 150 million federal, in the light of the arguments I have just given. A similar reasoning can be found with the real estate vehicles, for which the Monitoring Committee had set the financial returns of the entire operation to 0. At the end of last year and last week, we made a number of changes in the legal framework, which I explained earlier in my introduction. This makes us strong that we can still achieve 100 million revenues. The 100 million is, as I said, the delta compared to what the Monitoring Committee had estimated, namely 0. The operationality of the real estate vehicles will help us to realise a number of investment projects in the sphere of infrastructure, among others. In this sense, the measure fits perfectly with the ideas of a large investment plan, which we do need in this country. I would also like to mention a number of general comments. The Monitoring Committee shall deliver a report. I have never seen a budgetary control system where no technical adjustments are made. There always are. That is part of the definition of budgetary control. We are going to look at the areas where the monitoring committee's data may need to be adjusted for all kinds of reasons. With regard to the issue of debt, it is clear that a debt of 106 or even 107 per cent is too much. We must therefore do everything possible to try to reduce this ratio, not because Europe demands it, but simply because it is too high. We need to think about future generations. This debt ratio can be reduced directly and indirectly. It can be reduced directly by the realization of the State's assets, i.e. by privatisation. The amount obtained in this way is sold and used directly for debt reduction. But a more structural and effective solution is to reduce the deficit itself; that is what we are doing. It is for this reason that the objective of achieving budgetary balance is very important. The most structural way to bring the debt ratio down is to ensure that one does not accumulate deficits annually and thus increase the debt mountain. Then there were comments on the task force regarding the method of estimation. The analyses clearly showed that there was a lack of nutrition on the method of estimation, the hypothesis of the evolution of the macroeconomic environment. It is certainly also true that the estimation method itself can be significantly improved. As the President rightly pointed out, this year we are getting less in terms of withholding tax and VAT, while we are getting significantly more in terms of company tax and corporation tax. It would be nice, of course, if the realizations were closer to the projections, even about the large categories. A careful analysis of the method of estimation can certainly lead to improvements in this respect. What has happened so far in this area? The FPS Finance, the Finance Office, the Planning Bureau and the National Bank are all involved in various discussions on the fundamental work in this area, which are already behind us. It is not a question of certain principles, such as a correction of systematic deviations or more reliable forecasts. No, it is a very in-depth, complex statistical work, but not just static work, which we want to do very well. So we don't want to go over a night of ice when it comes to that exercise. We're working on that. As soon as this exercise takes shape, we will not hesitate to come to committee with it. Finally, does the government's program work or not? As far as I'm concerned, the answer is yes. Growth is seen to increase, and what is particularly important here is that growth is widely supported in all components. Investment is rising, exports are rising and consumption is rising. That is the definition of a structural improvement in growth. If one tries to dance on one or two legs, the story is very quickly knocked down. As far as the employment rate is concerned, I've heard it say it's not progressing. It's progressing. When I look at last month's National Bank forecasts, the employment rate is now around 67 percent and 69 percent is projected for 2019. In this way, we are getting very close to the target of 70%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u53	Mr. Secretary, you asked me to be able to finish around 18:00 at the latest. I believe that questions will also be asked in plenary tomorrow. Maybe there's still time for a very brief reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u54	Mr President, first of all, and the Minister of Finance has just recalled, there is still uncertainty about the methodologies for determining tax revenues. This means that the minister admits that there may still be adjustments to the level of tax revenues based on the result of the working group that has been set up and whose conclusions are not yet known. In fact, we asked for a debate, an exchange of views with the minister on this matter. We were denied that. So I want to remind him. This makes all of the government's budget work hypothetical. You have to remember that. Secondly, Mrs Wilmès, when you tell us that the National Bank is holding back 2.6% of the deficit while the European Commission is keeping 2.9% of the deficit and it is changing, they are not doing the same job! The European Commission is doing a job of screening by post, and in particular, we must remember, on the performance of the new measures. She pointed that out precisely to indicate that you were in the antechamber of the excessive deficit procedure. Where the National Bank develops a macroeconomic and macro-budgetary approach, the European Commission goes in detail. This is why the work carried out by the European Commission is a work that needs to be considered in another way, i.e. it refines the approach taken by the institutions of the National Bank or the Planning Office. Thirdly, I read through the lines and what I understand from your speech, Mrs Wilmès, is that when you say "for me, balance in 2018 is not fetishism", I understand that you are no longer aiming for balance in 2018. This clearly means that you are not going to respect the commitment you made yourself because we were never fetishists. We do not want to cut public services, social security and a whole range of other things to achieve fiscal balance by applying austerity. Today, I understand from your speech that you are no longer aiming for balance in 2018. In other words, when you say you don't have fetishism, you open the door to the lack of balance in 2018. We asked for information on the quality of the job created. We did not receive an answer to our questions. We will probably have to ask the question elsewhere or find the information for ourselves. In the jobs that are created, we want to know the share of full-time and precarious jobs. Another point, on which the Minister of Finance is not widely understood, is inflation, which is 3%. Inflation will most certainly reopen the debate on automatic indexing and we know what danger we are running in this case. Minister of Finance, what are your intentions to curb inflation? Do you not consider that, to a large extent, inflation is due to your policy of increasing taxes on consumption, which directly or indirectly intervenes in the cost of the products that are manufactured or services that are rendered and which, therefore, support or boost inflation? It also has a heritage impact on household savings. As much as it will allow you to improve your situation on the field of public debt, as much, because of your policy, there is a gradual nibbling of the capital of savers. On interest charges, you use savings from a relative drop in interest rates to fill your gaps, or even to finance one or the other current expenditure. Interest-burden savings should be charged against the government's debt relief and should not be used to make savings or to reach your path and gradually reduce the structural deficit. Why do I say that? Because tomorrow, rates can go up! It is not to be imagined that the rates are declining ad vitam aeternam. No, you're not immune to a raise in rates! In case of lower rates, it may be more appropriate to use them for other things than to finance your own deficits. Another point, Mrs Wilmès: I must admit that what you are doing with terrorism spending, the famous 58.3 million, is not very clear. You tell us that in the end, we're not going to spend them in 2017, but in 2018. Shouldn't you then provide them? Shouldn't you, in one way or another, book them? Obviously, you say: "since this is an expenditure that will not take place, it allows us to fill the budget gap." On the contrary, I think that it would have been necessary to use this amount to increase your provisions and to sanctify them to improve your fiscal trajectory, rather than to postpone the problems to 2018, as has been the case since the beginning of this government's budget work. These are some complementary elements, Mr President! I understand that the budgetary difficulties of the Belgian house are also due to the federated entities. I would point out that these account for only 0.2% of the deficit. Their responsibility should not therefore be overstated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u55	Mr President, I don't know if you think you've got a lot of answers to your questions. I have the feeling that you have not received much clarification. It's, at least, the frustration I feel. I understand that we are not starting a political debate at this time, since we do not yet have all the elements. That said, we could at least try to clarify these points on a technical level. However, no clarification was provided. For 2016, Madam Minister, you are telling us that the deficit is 2.6%, while there were fears that it would be 2.9% or 3%. We welcome this, but you do not provide any explanation or analysis. How did this unexpected improvement occur? There is no technical basis for understanding why the figures are better than expected. With regard to 2017, except for the cross-border, you did not provide any technical information about the budget lines contained in the document that was distributed to us. It was agreed that the corrections made by the Monitoring Committee should be corrected. However, I thought we could have obtained some information on e-commerce, accountability, credit-time, waiting period. Nothing. Of which act. We have not received any clarification regarding the corrective measures that are being taken. Similarly, there is no clarification as to what new expenditures are being announced. For example, what do the four times fifteen million cover? Nothing. All this is really very blurry. For 2018, it's really the pompon. Finally, it's not a surprise. You're telling us you don't want any fetishism. From this point of view, you are relatively consistent. Indeed, as soon as you took office, you had suggested that all the options were on the table, such as the return to balance. So, you stay in that coherence. The answer to the question of balance in 2018, we may have it in 2019, when retrospectively we can see the figures for fiscal year 2018. I really stay on my hunger because for the past, for the present and for the future, we only have weak answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u56	It is indeed clear that the table shows how this relates to the assessment of the Monitoring Committee. Mr President, I am looking at you now. It would therefore be interesting if we knew what the Monitoring Committee's assessment would be for each measure. We now know only the correction made by the government in connection with budgetary control. The report does not contain any measure per measure which it has included in its analysis. Mr Minister, for the real estate companies, you have now indicated that there is actually EUR 100 million to be added, while the Monitoring Committee had proposed 0 revenue. However, this is not clear for every measure. I would therefore like to see a column added to the table. That's not much work. You don't have to do that in Excel. It can also be done in Word. So, Minister, I would like to invite you to make the information in question available. That can only feed the debate tomorrow and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u57	Mr Calvo, I think we should wait for the draft budget control which will be submitted to the committee in a few weeks' time. There we will be able to look at the measures on a regular basis. We will therefore be able to consult the tables and see if it is in fact 0.8 %, compared to the original 2% or to another percentage. I believe that the draft will bring clarity. I thank everyone for the good meeting. Everyone is free to ask questions about this in plenary tomorrow. In the coming weeks, we will be discussing the draft budget in detail in our committee. I would also like to thank the government for the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic627x.u58	If you wish, you can convert the other questions into written questions. Otherwise, they will be postponed until Tuesday afternoon next week. At 2:00 p.m. there will be another meeting of the Finance Committee with questions.
