ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, burn out is a well-known evil today. The boron out, i.e. boredom at work, is, for its part, much less known. However, already in 2007, ten years ago, Peter Werder and Philippe Rothlin put a word on this syndrome of occupational exhaustion by boredom. It seems that this is common in the Walloon Region's administrations! The consequences would be the same as for burn out: suffering, until severe depression. The causes of this phenomenon are multiple: voluntary exclusion or "placardization" of people who cannot be fired or/and who disturb, posts not removed but emptied of their content, fragmentation of tasks to the extreme, reduction of the workload for a prolonged period, poor management of staff resources, too slow and complex procedures, etc. The difference between bore out and burn out is shame and guilt. Too much work is a fashion trend that is valued. He who is not active is shameful; he has the feeling of stealing his wages. He's even getting guilty. Failing or too zealous, grieving or inadequate, an employee suffering from boredom is often suspected of not wanting to enter the mould. That's why this disease remains taboo. Yet this suffering can cause mental and physical pathologies. This is, in any case, reflected in an article published in the Oxford International Journal of Epidemiology under the title "Bored to death" according to which people who are bored at work are two to three times more likely to have cardiovascular accidents than those whose employment is stimulating. Indeed, behind idleness in the office is a real lack of intellectual stimulation, very devalorizing and paradoxically very stressful. It is a pain that can go beyond the physical setting, often leading the person to palliative habits such as snacking, more frequent cigarette breaks or the use of alcohol or drugs. This shameful disease of a West where there is no longer enough work would affect up to 30% of employees. In 2009, a Belgian StepStone study of nearly 12,000 employees found that between 21% and 39% of them did not have enough work to complete their days. Madam Minister, what exactly do we know about this disease at Belgian level? Are there any other figures? Is there an estimate of the cost of this in terms of health care? If not, is a study being considered to determine it? What is the degree of recognition of this disease in Belgium? Are any measures in preparation to combat this trend? In Belgium, what are the remedies available to an employee who finds himself stuck in a situation of boredom at work? Can he prove that this has a negative impact on his health? Do you think that this disease is taken seriously enough and that the consequences are well understood? Are you aware of the means put in place in the public and private sectors, in Belgium but also in Europe and the world, to prevent employees from getting bored at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u2	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, this is just as serious a syndrome as a burn out. The symptoms of a boron out are very similar: irritation, exhaustion, apathy, cynicism, irritability, loss of self-confidence. On the other hand, the cause of a boron out is very different from the cause of a burn out. Burn out is characterized by an overload of work and an abundance of impulses over a long period of time. The worker was pushed too long. For its part, boron out is characterized by a lack of challenges. We don't have enough incentive to push our limits. We can't thrive and, finally, the work is no longer interesting and gives no satisfaction, which is really not the case with us. The causes of boron out are multiple. However, some people are at greater risk of a boron out, for example, people who are super smart or need a lot of stimulation. Certain characteristics of the work also play a role, for example, too low a workload, poorly distributed tasks among colleagues, too repetitive tasks, etc. In Belgium, mental disorders are the first cause of disability (incapacity to work for more than one year) and account for more than one third of cases of disability. That's 70 percent more than ten years ago. The same phenomenon is observed in the public sector. The statistics available today do not make it possible to differentiate the figures for the different types of mental disorders. The government is aware of the need to address psychosocial risks and, more specifically, to focus on prevention. The idea is to test various preventive measures and build an integrated prevention chain between the three institutions: the Employment, Labour and Social Concertation FPS, the INAMI and the Occupational Diseases Fund. In particular, the aim will be to propose preventive measures to accompany and support workers who are still at work but are threatened with burn out, boron out or other psychosocial problems related to work, or to define one or more rehabilitation routes suitable for people who are on extended work stoppages as a result of burn out, boron out or other psychosocial problems related to work. It is still early to move forward on the results of the pilot projects, which can be expected by the end of 2017. I pass the answers to Mr Blanchart's questions, who is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u3	Minister, my question was also about whether the disease was taken seriously enough. I realize, by your answer, that this is the case – in any case in your head. I believe that it will indeed be necessary to inform us about this. I am making a proposal, which may not be adequate. This problem also arises in the regions. You may be able to raise awareness of this issue among your colleagues in the Communities and Regions. It would also be interesting to do so vis-à-vis local authorities, where the problem was equally clear. Thank you for the deadlines that you have given us, including the deadline for the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, can I allow Mrs Cassart-Mailleux to ask her question first? She's got a death in the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, I think you are currently working on a definition of dependency in the context of thinking about close caregivers. At the Walloon level, your healthcare counterpart, Maxime Prévot, works on self-sufficiency insurance and must also define this notion of dependency. Minister, can you tell me if the definition of dependency is already settled? If so, what is it? Do you have any contact or collaboration with regional ministers in this regard? To what extent will your definitions be common?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, the law of 12 May 2014, published in the Belgian Moniteur on 6 June 2014, gives a real legal status to those people who dedicate themselves to accompany one of their relatives in loss of physical or mental autonomy, partial or total, and to give a project of life to those who have been bruised by existence. If the assessment of the application of the law is not foreseen within a period of two years, a number of implementing orders still need to be made (specific categories of assisted persons and conditions of residence; types and modalities of support and assistance, as well as modalities of calculating the investment in time required; pathologies; target group "near helper" and maximum number of persons who can be recognized as close helper per assisted person). Mutualities also have an important role to play in the process, since it is with them that close caregivers must apply for recognition, with the consent of the assisted person. Minister, close caregivers deserve effective recognition, not only for human and social reasons but also for their contribution to health policies. A recent study carried out by UCL at the request of the King Baudouin Foundation entitled "Friendly Caregivers: Key Links for Older and Fragile People" highlighted the importance of the role of close caregivers in health care policy. They reduce the risk of hospitalization and, if hospitalization is necessary, they reduce the duration of hospitalization from five to fifteen days on average. According to this study, their informal assistance can thus amount to €267 to €1,194 per month. Their effective recognition therefore deserves our full attention. Minister, what is the current situation with regard to the preparation of the various royal decrees mentioned above? Within what reasonable time can the full effectiveness of the law be expected? What are the current arbitrations or difficulties potentially encountered upstream? Has there been any consultation with mutual organizations to ensure that the project is fully operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u7	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and Mrs Caprasse, thank you for your questions. Given the growing demand for care, people with reduced autonomy need to be helped so that they can stay as long as possible in their familiar environment. The aim is not to put pressure on close caregivers now, because their rights must be safeguarded. Indeed, their role is essential. In addition, 75 per cent of older people wish to be treated for as long as possible at home, even in the event of illness or weakening. It is important to examine, in collaboration with the Regions and the municipalities, which initiatives best correspond to the needs of close caregivers. To do this, we have worked in the following way. The first step is the recognition of close caregivers. This is a group of people who have a role in informal care. I had already convened a working group to discuss a first proposal within the government. Secondly, several civil society organizations and advisory councils were heard on the implementation of the law on the recognition of the caregiver close to a person in a situation of great dependence. There are still points of discussion concerning the implementation of the Royal Enforcement Order. We've already consulted the mutualities. A note from the National Intermutualist College emerged. These opinions and consultations have enabled me to identify the problem very precisely. We are still receiving opinions for further consideration. For example, we received a note from the Observatoire des maladies chronicles on informal care last October. The decisions under discussion relate to the maximum number of close caregivers per person, the registration procedures, the number of hours devoted to care by a close caregiver, the conditions relating to the place of residence and the degree of dependency. Many factors are important. It is necessary to take into account all possible situations on the spot, to issue a royal decree which could be implemented in the different regions, and which would take into account all the particularities. A framework should really be created. We already know that when there is a close caregiver who is very fragile, we are dealing with someone who will quickly become too tired. However, we do not need ten people in all. We will try to find the maximum number of people. It is up to the patient to identify who they trust, and to determine who they want to help. There must be sufficient independence for the people concerned. It is normal to need many opinions from the field, but also, as you have said, in the opinion of mutualities, who are also very close to the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u8	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. Concertations with the Regions are of paramount importance. A little transversality is necessary, and as you said, we need to take the most important case, which requires concerted action. It's not a political issue, it's a matter that affects the well-being of families. We've got to get to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u9	Minister, I hear that the issue is still evolving. We will come back with other questions so that we can give the right information to those who question us regularly. Thank you already for your remarks today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u10	Madam Minister, an important tool in the fight against poverty is the automatic granting of rights. Very often people do not know what they are entitled to, so they cannot improve their income situation. However, they have certain rights, and if they take them up, poverty could fall a lot. In recent years, a number of fine policy initiatives have been taken to counter the non-take-up of rights. For example, for a number of years the National Pensions Office has granted the right to a guarantee of income for the elderly automatically, if the 65-pluser has a low income. Another initiative is the Handiflux web service. This service is offered by the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and public and private organisations can thus obtain the rights to benefits from the DG Persons with Disabilities. As far as health care is concerned, the proactive flux was introduced in 2015 for the automatic granting of the right to increased compensation. This system is very labour-intensive: sickness funds received from the Crossroads Bank of Social Security lists containing all certificates on the basis of which rights may be granted. These certificates are sometimes purely indicative. The sickness fund will then have to carry out an additional income check. However, in the context of an increased subsidy, such an investigation of income will soon take 25 minutes. Many health insurance funds have more than 100 000 customers that they have to contact in this way, so this takes a lot of time. An additional initiative by sickness funds is to instruct their contact staff to examine, where appropriate, the right to the increased allowance. Madam Minister, is there any way to simplify the investigation into the right to the increased allowance, inspired by the initiative on the income guarantee for older people and on the Handiflux web service? After all, we are still receiving reports, Madam Minister, that a number of persons entitled to the increased allowance will not receive an increased allowance. This may have to do with the fact that it takes a long time before the sickness funds have completed all the investigations and enquiries. It would therefore depend on the slowness or speed of the sickness funds whether or not a person is entitled to the increased allowance and thus possibly misses an increased allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u11	Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your question. There is a partial automation for the granting of the increased allowance, in particular where the entitlement to the increased allowance is granted as a derived right for beneficiaries of a living wage, for whom an income guarantee for the elderly or for whom one of the allowances is granted for persons with disabilities. The extension of the right was also automated through a system of automatic annual control, based on a computerised exchange of data between the sickness funds, the RIZIV and the FPS Finances. Indeed, some social benefits are now granted more easily than by means of the income survey for the increased benefit. Therefore, Article 11 of the Administrative Agreement, concluded with the RIZIV, includes a number of commitments which should lead to a further simplified and more automated allocation of the increased concession in the relatively short term. Part 1 of Article 11 states that, within the framework of the increased concession, automation provides for the following administrative commitments: an evaluation of the results of proactive detection of the increased concession, the implementation by the administration of a comparative study on the degree of automation of a number of social benefits, so that the best practices emerging from the study may also be implemented, including when granting the increased concession. That study will be completed this year. The administrative agreements were concluded by the end of 2015. That study was then ordered and delivered this year. Finally, there is also the study of the Centre of Knowledge, which is to formulate proposals on automation. In this way, a substantiated revision of the increased concession with attention to a non-take-up will be possible. The necessary supporting studies were requested at the time and we expect them to be delivered this year. In the meantime, this has been included in the administrative agreement by the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u12	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I note that it is also a concern for you to continue to do so. That is why you have asked for studies. For the time being, therefore, we cannot say in concrete terms when the process will be completely automatic. I expect that you will first look at what the studies propose and then continue to be automated. Or do you see the possibility of making maximum use of a solution for the fact that beneficiaries do not recognise rights? I read that it was intended that the sickness funds would have two years, starting in 2016, to do all the necessary research. So they were allowed to be spread over two years. If one calculates from 2014, that period should in principle end at the end of 2016. Is this true, or are we still lagging behind, and have the sickness funds not done everything and not already contacted all those concerned on the basis of the information they receive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u13	I should check that out myself. I don't know. At the level of the administrations, it was incorporated into the administrative agreements. Supportive studies were requested. I don't know how the workflow at the sickness funds is arranged. I don't have access to that. I should ask them myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u14	I'm just asking. If the policy demands that anyone who may be entitled to contact them by a given date, then that would help, but you do not know if that is the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u15	I have no demands on the health insurance funds. I can only give orders to my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u16	I realize that, but is there a contract? It is a question of whether a certain period of time was laid down in the legislation. That was my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u17	That is what I have to ask, but even if it is, I cannot yet impose or enforce it from the sickness funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u18	If we've agreed to it in the law, then there's got to be some way to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u19	The health insurance funds are not under my jurisdiction. I work with the sickness funds, but I'm not the big boss there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u20	If you do not know, I hope that I will have an answer to the question of what has been agreed and what has been laid down by law on the time limit within which this has to be done. I also note that there will be two more investigations, one of the KCE and another, which will be completed this year. Then there will be proposals to improve automation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u21	Yes, and since it is a work of the administrations, it is also included in the administrative agreement we have made with them for the following years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u22	I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u23	Mr President, Minister, my apologies for having to take you back in time, my question dates back to 1 June 2016. For the record, it has not been my choice to put this on the agenda until today. Figures from Medex, the public administration responsible for the control of disease among the government staff, show that more than a quarter of the prison guards' sick leave during the Whitsun weekend, i.e. the Pentecost weekend 2016, can be considered suspicious. Medex performed 47 additional audit orders. It turned out 31 staff members were indeed ill. However, at 26% of the checks carried out, absenteeism was found to be suspicious. Was there social fraud in these cases? In five cases work had to be resumed early, in three cases an incorrect address was given and in four cases the call was not addressed. What action has been taken on this? Were sanctions imposed? Finally, are you planning additional measures to prevent possible fraudulent absenteeism?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u24	Mr President, Mr Raskin, in accordance with the law of 13 June 1999 on control medicine, an auditor can only examine the following. First of all, he checks whether the worker is actually unfit for work. Secondly, he checks whether the likely duration of incapacity for work is correct. Thirdly, he shall, where appropriate, check the other medical records, in so far as they are necessary for the application of the provisions of this Act. All other findings remain subject to professional secrecy and are therefore not communicated. It is the employer, in this case the FPS Justice, who is competent to give an appropriate follow-up to the findings of the audit doctors. In other words, if you are asking whether this is social fraud, it is up to the employer, being the FPS Justice, to go further into those cases, with people who gave false addresses or were not actually sick. I also, it was an extended weekend and there was a guard strike, asked Medex to put in extra doctors to check on all those people. The way in which the controls are organised by Medex has already been reformed. In the past, an employer could only apply for 10% of the possible checks. We raised that to 30%. An employer can now apply for 30% of the possible checks. So the percentage has tripled. This allows a larger sample to be taken. In order to follow up on the findings of Medex, I must refer you to the Minister responsible, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u25	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That's obvious. When one finds that since the start of these strikes the absenteeism almost tripled, with peak moments of 1 300 people per day, while the normal average is 500 people, that raises questions. It is clear that the answer to my question must be sought elsewhere, so thank you for the referral.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u26	This question dates from before the summer, but it is still burning. The reason is the deficit forecast in the social security management committee at the time. There was talk of a deficit of EUR 748 million. The press releases today mention a deficit of EUR 749 million. There are therefore rather good windows, better than some ministers. Some refer to sickness benefits when it comes to the causes. In the meantime, we read that it also has to do with disappointing revenues. Today we are referring to withholding tax, VAT and so on. This includes the Social Security Finance Act, which poses a challenge for the government, if the amount mentioned were to be effective. I have some questions about that. First of all, in the summer there was mainly talk about the technicality of the calculations that this would have to do with. Is that the case or are there other matters involved? What do you think are the reasons why there would be such a rising deficit? Secondly, the long-term sick. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that I really do not agree with the discourse that is constantly being stepped up, namely that much larger expenditure would mean a shift from unemployment to health insurance. I absolutely disagree with that. Reports by the RIZIV itself and other studies show that this is mainly due to a number of factors, including the increase in the number of active persons. If there are more people on the labour market, it is logical that, at the same rate, the group is larger in absurd figures, which means that there are more expenditures. That's the logic of things. There is also the feminisation of the labour market, which also has to do with the increase in the number of active people. There is the ageing of the population, or the older one gets, the greater the risk of getting sick. We also do not forget that the sickness benefits are rising. All these factors lead to more expenditure, but in my view this does not cause landslides compared to the past. Relatively, there is an increase, but it is much less serious than what the absolute figures would suggest. What are your reasons for the increase in the number of long-term sick? Thirdly, what percentage of the working population is in disability? What was that percentage five and ten years ago? In this way, we may be able to estimate things in relative terms better than in absolute terms. Fourthly, this was still conditional in the summer, but today the measures relating to reintegration apply. Can you give us the first results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u27	In the employee scheme and the self-employed scheme, the benefit insurance budget for the 2015 service year does not show any deficits. I'll give you the numbers. For employees, the cumulative estimated expenditure for 2015 is EUR 7.91 billion. The expenditure realised amounted to EUR 7.38 billion. The difference in real figures is 53 million euros. Thus, EUR 53 million less has been achieved than the estimated cumulative expenditure. For the self-employed, this difference was 1.6 million euros. Of course, there's a lot less of them. EUR 412 million has been estimated and EUR 411 million has been spent. No budget overrun is expected for 2016. Overall, for the first months of 2016, there is an under-spending of the estimated budget. For employees, this is EUR 45.4 million. For the self-employed, this is EUR 396 000. The increase in expenditure is diverse. In the study of the RIZIV to which you refer, the main causes of the increase in the number of disabled persons are listed. There is indeed an ageing population. That means more people live longer. There is also the feminisation of the labour market. This means that the women who used to stay at home and do the household are less numerous. More women have become active. They also run the risk of obtaining invalidity or incapacity for work, whereas mother on the fireplace was not previously entitled to it. The measures taken, including the extension of the retirement age and the reduction of SWT, also lead to an increase in the number of disabled persons. What's the matter with these people? These are mental diseases and musculoskeletal disorders which are becoming increasingly prominent as a cause of long-term incapacity for work. All these factors whose influence cannot be determined separately explain the increase in the number of long-term incapacityes, an increase which has indeed been taking place for years. I have here a table showing the degree of disability, as you ask. The degree of invalidity is calculated by dividing the disabled by the beneficiaries, less the bridge pensioners. This figure indicates the probability that a beneficiary is an invalid. For 2006, the disability rate was 5.66 %. We are seeing a step-by-step increase, ending at 8.43% in 2015. That is a significant increase, if you ask me. Over the last ten years, the risk of disability has increased every year, with no exception. As regards the measures taken in the context of the reintegration of long-term sick people, I can tell you that a number of measures have already been taken which will have their first positive effects in the field. For example, the number of reintegration pathways launched, inter alia in cooperation with regional employment services, has increased considerably. The number of cases involved in vocational guidance and/or training in 2015 is 2 889 cases, while in 2014 it covered 1 473 people. Other measures to promote the chances of successful socio-professional integration are now in the process of being implemented. For example, according to Norwegian model, two scientifically validated questionnaires will be developed, namely one during the second month and one during the seventh month of incapacity for work. These questionnaires will also provide an insight into the possibilities for a successful reintegration plan for the social security provider. In addition, in assessing incapacity for work, the consultant should always take into account the optimal professional reintegration of the disabled insured person. For the first time after three months of incapacity for work, the counsellor systematically examines the possibility of re-integration of the person concerned in the future. The exchange of data between doctors is encouraged through the creation of a medical infflux. We hope that the measures will slow down the increase in the number of long-term sick. I would like to add one more point. You say older people get sick more often, but that's not true. Older people do not become ill more often, but if they become ill, they are absent for longer periods. As a result, older people are more prominently represented in our long-term absence figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u28	Madam Minister, at least you confirm that social security is mainly about disappointing income. Since you are talking about under-utilisation of budgets, it will be mainly on the revenue side. Secondly, I also hear confirmation that there are many more factors than simply the shift from unemployment to disease. The positive effects of reintegration once again suggest that we should give reintegration a chance on a voluntary basis and that a system of sanctions should not be introduced now. You yourself say that a scientific questionnaire needs to be developed and put into use. It is only natural that we should give reintegration a chance before we work on a new system of sanctions, especially since you say that the system, as it is now, already has positive effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u29	Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you a question about paying ecocheques online. You probably know the story of the ecocheques by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u30	(no micro)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u31	He told you that in smells and colors. Apparently, a thousand traders will soon accept online payment with electronic ecocheques. That was communicated by the issuing company Edenred. In itself, that could be a positive evolution. However, it is also an example of how needlessly complex the system remains because in addition to paper ecocheques, there have been electronic cheques since 2016. Apart from the discussion we are having here in Parliament, you know what our committee's plans are. I have a few questions. Is Edenred the only issuing company that provides the possibility to pay online with the electronic ecocheques? Do the other two issuing companies have plans in that direction? How many traders already offer this option? Do you have a view of the commissions they have to pay to Edenred for the use of these ecocheques? Are these commissions lower or higher than those used for paper ecocheques? Finally, what are the implications of online purchases by electronic ecocheques for the possibility of checking the ecological nature of the products concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u32	Mr President, this is indeed an initiative of commercial services and not a public activity. So I cannot really say anything about the objectives or the details. I believe that there can be an effective problem with the legally correct use of electronic ecocheques. Mr Vercamer has also mentioned that there is not always a view on its use. Today, 8 788 employers signed a convention with an ecocheques publisher. 245 800 workers receive electronic ecocheques. 8 300 companies accept ecocheques. These ecocheques allow workers to purchase the products and services of an ecological nature listed in the collective agreement No. 98, closed in the National Labour Council. It is the Minister of Economy who, pursuant to Article 7 of the Royal Decree of 12 October 20120 laying down the conditions for recognition and the recognition procedure for publishers of meal cheques in electronic form implementing Article 183 to 185 of the Law of 30 December 2009 laying down various provisions, is competent to detect infringements. You ask whether these ecocheques are always used for products of an ecological nature. The Minister for Economic Affairs may make observations on the ecological nature of the goods which can be purchased by ecocheques. For parts of your question, I must also refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Employment. Apart from the fact that I am involved in this because this has been agreed in the National Labour Council, I myself do not have much opportunity to intervene if problems arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u34	Madam Minister, a person X lives in Belgium and has worked in Belgium for several years. Afterwards he developed an almost complete career in the Netherlands as a frontier worker. He is dismissed at a later age and is unemployed, or, in this case more relevant, he becomes ill. His entitlement to a Belgian unemployment benefit or sickness benefit will cease when he becomes 65 years old, which is still the statutory retirement age. He is only entitled to his Dutch pension from 67 years old. So that's two years later. In theory, he can call for assistance, but in terms of social security rights he finds himself in a vacuum. This vacuum has been created by the reform of the pension complement for border and seasonal workers by the Michel government, in force since early 2015, subject to transitional arrangements. A problem arises when frontier workers are dismissed or sick after their 65th. At that age they have already reached the Belgian retirement age, but not yet the foreign retirement age, for example, which is 67 years old in the Netherlands. Once the statutory retirement age in Belgium has been reached, one is entitled to a domestic pension but no longer to an unemployment benefit or, in this case, a sickness benefit. This domestic pension can be very low for a long foreign career and a short domestic career. There is no more addition, because it has been abolished. The right to a foreign pension can only be taken up if the pensionable age is reached there too. For a solution for those who become unemployed, I must be with your colleague, Minister Peeters. I have already asked him that question, but he is referring me to Minister Bacquelaine. Minister Peeters didn't exactly give me an answer. For the sickness benefits, the key lies with you. Instead of working through pensions, we could extend the right to a Belgian sickness benefit for that group until they are entitled to a pension abroad and therefore have a full pension income. The problem is certainly not unknown to you, Madam Secretary. Are you working on a solution? Are you prepared to fill the gap in legislation? The question was also put by Mr De Vriendt to Minister Bacquelaine. The Minister refers to the IGO and his fellow Minister Peeters. In this way, of course, we are turning around in a circle, with little message for those involved. I therefore assume that you will give me a more far-reaching answer than the answer I received from Minister Peeters and the answer Mr De Vriendt received from Minister Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u35	Madam Minister, at the beginning of 2015, the new legislation on pension complement came into force. The result of the previous scheme was that, if one of our neighbouring countries tightened its pension regulations, the bill would then be for Belgium. This has happened in the Netherlands, for example, in recent years. The Netherlands has tightened its rules and the result is that Belgium had to pay more supplements. It could be that if there was no Dutch pension at the time, the supplement was very high. In fact, it was a full pension, so de facto Belgium paid a pension to employees who had paid social contributions not in Belgium but in the Netherlands. Such a system was not only financially unsustainable. It also went against European rules which stipulate that a person is not allowed to receive a pension from two countries for the same period of employment. This does not, of course, mean that we must be blind to the concrete consequences in certain situations, hence two questions. Firstly, does the reform of pension complement effectively lead to situations as described in Mrs Willaert's question? Do the persons concerned, in such situations, indeed not have the right to a Dutch sickness benefit? Secondly, if there is an effective problem, will you, if necessary in consultation with your Dutch colleague, consider providing a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u36	In fact, invalidity benefits borne by Belgian benefit insurance are refused from the first day of the month following the month in which the invalid beneficiary reaches the statutory retirement age of 65 years. Today the statutory retirement age in Belgium is still different from that of the Netherlands. From 2030 onwards, the statutory retirement age will also be 67 years in Belgium. The scheme was amended in May 2010. I shall first outline the current situation and then the situation before the change. There is no problem for either category of entitled person. For the social insurers with a mixed career recognised as invalid from 1 May 2010, the different statutory retirement age between Belgium and the Netherlands does not cause any gap. In addition to the Belgian pro-rata benefit which they receive under the European Regulation No 881 of 29 April 2004, they are also entitled to a pro-rata benefit granted by the Netherlands on the basis of their Dutch career. As soon as they reach the age of 65, they will receive the Belgian retirement pension, which they can indeed combine with the Dutch pro-rata invalidity allowance, until they reach their statutory Dutch retirement age of 67 years. The social insurers who were recognised as invalid before 1 May 2010 and who were subject to Belgian social security at the start of their incapacity for work are, in principle, only reimbursed by Belgium. Belgium and the Netherlands fall within the scope of the previous European Regulation No. 1408 of 14 June 1971 in countries of type A. As soon as they are no longer entitled to an invalidity benefit from 65 years of age onwards, European legislation provides that the entitlement to a possible pro-rata benefit must be examined by the competent body in the other Member State, such as the UWV in the Netherlands, for the period from the conversion of the invalidity benefit to the retirement pension in Belgium to the retirement pension in that other Member State, which is at the age of 67 years in the Netherlands. At European level, therefore, a scheme has already been drawn up which grants this group of social insurers a pro rata disability benefit. It is therefore not necessary to take a special initiative, which would allow a special derogation from the general principle in Belgian legislation, since the question is already governed by the general principle for that group of insured persons. Should a person concerned, for example, not be entitled to such a pro-rata benefit from the Netherlands because he or she does not meet the conditions of incapacity for work in accordance with Dutch legislation, he or she may claim a guarantee of income for the elderly if he or she has insufficient means of subsistence and resides in Belgium, or a similar supplement, as provided for in the legislation of the Member State in which he or she resides.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u37	Madam Minister, if I understand correctly, there is not so much a problem for people with sickness benefits. There is, of course, the last, small, category to fall back on the IGO, with reservations. There is a resource test and it is apparently expected that those concerned will have to live off their savings for 2 years. I'm assuming it's a small category. Of course, there is still a problem with unemployment benefits, but of course we should not be with you for that. Maybe it's worth the effort for that last category of...................................................................................................................................................................................................... I believe that the issue should be dealt with primarily at European level, but could you possibly find a solution bilaterally, with your Dutch fellow Members, for that small group of people? It's best to do that as soon as possible. Do not wait until Belgium itself raises the retirement age. In general, it reassures me that there is not so much a problem, especially for people with sickness benefits, as Europe provides for an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u38	Madam Minister, my question dates back to September 2016. At that time we were able to read in the newspaper about your plans for stepping up checks in the long-term sick. But we also read that you are working on simplifying the calculation method for the benefit of these people. Certain premiums linked to seniority, bonuses and certain overtime hours would no longer be included in the calculation. You responded to this and said that it could also mean an increase in the benefit for some people, but that might be based on other parameters that were not mentioned. Can you tell us what this reform means in concrete terms, what will and will not be included in the calculation? What will be the practical consequences for those involved? How many people will see their benefits fall with your proposal, by what amount on average? How many people will see their benefits increase with your proposal, by what amount on average? How much savings do you expect from the plan? As I said, in what case will someone see their benefit just rise instead of fall?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u39	Mrs Willaert, it is true that the purpose of the change in the method of calculating the disability benefit for long-term illness is to simplify it. But not only that, the reform must also make the determination of benefits more resilient to the potential of social fraud. Finally, it is also intended to avoid different interpretations of regulation in practice in the future. Let me give you a simplified overview of what it was like in the past and what it's like now. It is about employees in private, not about civil servants, who have a different statute, and the unemployed. Previously, the following was the case. The employer accidentally passed on wage elements to the sickness fund, which were eligible for the calculation of the benefit. Some examples: a mentor's premium, a seniority premium, a July premium, a sintering class premium. There are many other premiums. The contributions not linked to benefits shall not be taken into account. The purpose of the sickness benefit is to compensate for the real loss of earnings. How was it before? Overtime worked was included in the calculation, in so far as it was carried out regularly. Some employers coded overtime as taking into account the wage, others did not, which led to a different interpretation of one or the other and arbitrariness. How does it happen now? For sickness insurance we exclude it, provided it is not more than 10% of the total wage. Here again the same basic idea applies: health insurance aims to cover the normal loss of earnings. It doesn't cover overtime. However, for certain workers these allowances are an essential part of their pay. Hence the limit of 10 %. How was it before? The benefits were determined on the income on the day before the day someone became ill. That was fraud-prone. The current calculation basis shall be the last day of the second quarter preceding that in which the risk occurs, T 2 to the extent that employment has remained stable. If not, there will be more specific rules. That's the decision in a nutshell. It's easier. It confronts the employer's declaration of pay with what is already in the RSZ system and with well-known wage data in the social security flows. I said in the discussions of that programme law that it could also be to the benefit of the employee, especially if he has been paid a lower wage during the last few months before the benefit and, for example, because he has tried to continue working part-time or in lighter and less paid jobs. Those cases are not imaginary. They occur. Thus, if someone has done less work, less heavy work and less paid work in the last few months, this is now calculated on the T2R, i.e. actually at the level when he was still in full activity and better paid. The current system uses the latest part-time pay data, including activity. In the new system, such unfair cases are corrected by taking back the reference wage of two quarters in time. The proceeds are mainly generated by excluding some contributions from the benefit base, as well as by reducing the possibility of social fraud. It is not possible to predict exactly how much benefits are paid in practice. However, a simulation based on the mass of wages has been made. However, it is and remains a simulation. This simulation shows that the savings at cruising speed would be EUR 25 million on an annual basis. I would remind you that we spend a multitude of that amount on raising benefits through the welfare envelope. I don't have any other attached figures yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u40	Madam Minister, you are right to describe a number of cases which could be simplified or which are partly susceptible to fraud. On the other hand, your last words are also very important. No matter how they turn or turn, a number of people will see their benefits go down. In fact, we are going to come back to raising the benefits. After all, as we all know, sick people often cost a lot of money. So it is our main concern to take good care of the people in our society who are unlucky to get sick. We are therefore in favour, on the one hand, of rationalization, equalization of certain matters and as clearly as possible of matters which can be interpreted. On the other hand, there is the wealth envelope for raising benefits, but I think that there is still room for improvement. There is nothing so bad in life but to end up in poverty because people have had the bad luck of getting sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 13653 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 13765 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u42	Madam Minister, until a time ago, prisoners in effective detention were still entitled to disability benefits, while our institutions provided for the maintenance and health care of the prisoners. Luckily, you've already dealt with that situation. The disability and occupational diseases allowance for prisoners in effective detention was suspended from 1 January 2016 by the Royal Decree of 19 January 2016. An exception was made for interned people who were placed in prison: under the new regulations they still receive half of their sickness benefit. The sickness funds competent for the payment of this benefit were instructed to suspend these benefits. They do so on the basis of data provided to them through the FPS Justice Department. The KB included that this exchange of information would initially be carried out by means of a paper certificate. In the long term, this would be digitised. Firstly, are there any prisoners still in effective custody who are still receiving sickness benefits? If so, for what reason have they not been suspended? Secondly, will the suspension be applied to new detainees from the first day of their stay in prison? Thirdly, and this is perhaps the most important, is the exchange of information between the FPS Justice and the sickness funds already digitised or is a paper version still being used? If so, where do you stand with the plans to work on digitisation? Finally, do you have an insight into whether all sickness funds are effectively participating and implementing what is in the Royal Decree on the suspension of sickness benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u43	Mr Spooren, my administration has clarified the application of the Royal Decree of 19 January 2016 amending the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996 implementing the Law on compulsory health insurance for medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, by means of a special circular concerning the various sickness funds. As soon as the sickness fund is aware that an invalid insured person resides in a penitentiary institution, the grant of the benefit should be suspended temporarily. On the basis of information obtained from the FPS Justice and from the social security fund itself, the sickness fund ultimately decides to maintain the suspension in the event of an actual stay in the penitentiary institution in execution of a criminal conviction and to regularise the situation through an additional payment in the case of a pre-trial detention or internment, where the person concerned resides in the establishment under the status of a placement. If the actual stay in the penitentiary institution is the result of a criminal conviction, the award of the invalidity allowance should be suspended from the first day of that stay. At present, the exchange of information is not yet carried out by electronic means. It is still a working method with paper certificates, which means a heavy administrative procedure for all actors. My administration, together with the National Intermutualist College, participates in a working group within the Crossroads Bank of Social Security to enable an electronic data exchange between the FPS Justice and the various sickness funds. Several other public social security institutions, such as the RVA and the federal pension services, are also involved in this working group as they are also taken into account. In addition to the technical development of this flow of data, there should also be a sufficient legal framework to ensure the electronic processing and exchange of such personal data. That is what this working group is working on. In this context, I would like to quote the bill recently submitted by your colleagues Becq, Terwingen, Foret and Goffin, in particular the draft law on the processing of personal data by the FPS Justice in connection with the execution of custodial sentences and measures of liberty and the management of the establishments in which such execution takes place. That is the document No. 2194. On this bill, the Council of State and the Commission for the Protection of the Personal Life have recently issued their opinions. That's what's being taken into account. Which health insurance funds are involved in this? All sickness funds are obliged to apply the ZIV regulations. They must therefore suspend the award of invalidity benefits in the event of an actual stay in a penitentiary institution in the execution of a criminal conviction. I hope that the working party will continue to work well and will be able to reformulate it as soon as possible, because that is an annoying and unnecessarily long administrative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u44	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that a working party is working on this and, above all, that you are involving the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. After all, it has a lot of experience in the digitisation of all kinds of social security schemes. I hope this progresses quickly. I agree with you that this is not only a heavy administrative burden, but I also think that there can be many errors in the system. Their application cannot be 100 % effective as long as there is no digitisation. I asked which health insurance companies are involved. Of course they're all in, but I didn't hear any numbers. Maybe you don't either. I was wondering if there have been cases that slip through the loopholes of the network, precisely because there is no digitalisation yet. If it is possible, you should also look at the effective implementation in due course, even if you are still working with paper versions, to know whether the KB and the circular letter are being properly applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u45	Once again, I am not the competent minister when it comes to health insurance. I work with the sickness funds, but I have to get the data just like you. This is about internal operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u46	Madam Minister, if my question dates back to October - and the situation has changed since - it is nevertheless necessary for my understanding. A provision laid down in the pact of the future, discussed with the national unions, provided for a reduction in recognitions according to the number of members. This has led to the disappearance of mutual societies with their head offices in the province of Luxembourg, thus creating an important problem for Luxembourgers. Indeed, only Christian Mutuality could survive these new criteria. The Luxembourg citizen would therefore only have the right to join this mutuality or to seek a greater mutuality, but outside the province of Luxembourg. However, the province of Luxembourg, given the size of its population, will never be able to form large mutualist entities, which respect both their needs of proximity and their philosophical aspirations in complete freedom. It is therefore not a political problem but a democratic one. A provincial exception is essential, as the legislator had understood so far, since the current provisions require at least one mutuality per province in each national union. There is, moreover, no explicit argument justifying the death of small mutualities. Moreover, both liberal mutuality and socialist mutuality in Luxembourg are financially sound. Could you, Madam Minister, tell me what is happening to the negotiations under way? What solutions do you intend to put in place to ensure that each national union is represented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u47	Mr Piedboeuf, your question was actually asked before the signing of this pact at the end of November 2016. Of course, the answer has been updated. All the parties concerned signed this pact on 28 November and rationalising the operation and financial resources is not only an initiative by the authorities. There was also a request from the sector itself, i.e. insurers. There is no link between the number of members measure and the number of establishments. Insurers are free to continue to determine the number and location of establishments. However, the goal is to generate economies of scale at the level of governance. To do so, a minimum number of members is set by mutuality. This proposal was discussed in negotiations on the compact with insurers. Several arguments were made. Last year, savings in administrative costs were imposed by the government. In addition, the need for rational use of available resources is growing. It has been concluded that this action/commitment will undoubtedly contribute to the implementation of the above measures. A threshold of 75,000 licensees was proposed while providing for a transitional period. This threshold was established following negotiations with all the parties concerned and on the basis of data provided by the Office for the Control of Mutualities. The figures underlying the discussions include insured persons residing abroad who work in Belgium because they are entitled to Belgian health care. On the other hand, Belgians who work abroad are not included as they depend on the health insurance of the foreign country. In addition, each insurer organization will retain the possibility of having a mutuality by language region, regardless of the number of members, but provided that it has the explicit agreement of the Board of Management of the National Union. In addition, each insurer may have a mutual fund which does not meet the criteria of 75 000 members, also with the explicit agreement of the above-mentioned Council. This was agreed in Action Commitment No. 37 of the Covenant. The above rule does not necessarily have to have a negative impact. The physical proximity between mutuality and its members must not change. This depends on the choices of the mutualities involved. Today, there are still large differences between mutualities. Accessibility (windows, front office) does not necessarily have to be impacted by the back office scale effect. With regard to the provision of services, these are decisions which are the responsibility of members of mutual societies who can be heard through general councils. In view of these factors, this measure does not necessarily imply consequences for the supply of insurers. Several institutions may remain active at the front office, depending on their own choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u48	Minister, of course I fully share your vision. Simply, until then, the legislator was in a way the guarantor of small mutualities, in places where the population does not allow to have more important ones. So you refer the responsibility to national agencies that don't care at times about what is happening in the provinces. I fully understand the logic of the legislation, but it still has the effect that I denounced because, indeed, the national unions preserve their interests without necessarily having the same attention that the legislator had at the level of a province.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u49	Madam Minister, in the past, your colleague responsible for civil service has always referred to the discussions you have had with him since the beginning of last year on the sickness pension with the Communities, the Regions and the local authorities. In the meantime, we're a year away. In the government agreement it was agreed that you would examine how to replace the retirement pension for physical incapacity, better known as the sickness pension for civil servants, with an invalidity pension, such as that provided for in the sickness and invalidity scheme for workers, which falls within your competence. We are not in favour of the sickness pension, as it is understood today. The calculation method is the same as for the ordinary retirement pension in the public sector. Those who are already in the system at an early age will in many cases receive a very low monthly amount and are mostly doomed to remain in the system. How are negotiations with the Communities, regions and local authorities going? Have there been any contacts with each of them? What are the most difficult issues? What's the further timing? What scenarios are on the table? What is the outcome of the negotiations? Has a specific timeline been set in relation to the transition? What impact will there be for civil servants who are already receiving a sickness pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u50	Mr President, it does not happen every day, but Mr Vercamer literally takes the words out of my mouth. My question is literally the same. I believe that the question is certainly relevant and I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u51	Mr Vercamer and Mr Spoorten, the negotiations with the other levels of government on the reform of sickness pensions and disability in the public sector have not yet taken place. According to the planned calendar from the budget notification of 9 April 2016, the Minister of Civil Service, the Minister of Pensions and the Minister of Social Affairs were instructed to do so. A proposal was therefore submitted to the Council of Ministers during the budget conclave of October 2016. A sui generis scenario was chosen, which would be proposed and negotiated with the other levels of government. The negotiations will have to take place in the course of March 2017 and will lead to results that will also be submitted to the Council of Ministers. Depending on the outcome of these consultations with the Länder and local authorities, the Council of Ministers will then decide whether or not to abolish the sickness pension system for physical incapacity for work and the transfer of federal statutory officials including special categories of staff to the RIZIV employee system. For those who are already receiving a sickness pension, I would nevertheless like to say that, even if the current procedure has not been adapted, it is permitted, at least if it is physically possible, to seek employment and to start work both in the private sector and in the public sector. The statute in itself is not a restriction; there is only no guidance to resume work. Those concerned must therefore seek a job, either part-time or full-time, on their own initiative. That number is, of course, very, very low. If you do not offer any guidance, you will not be looking for work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u52	Madam Minister, it is a great deal that there is a proposal, but I would like to encourage you to make that clear in 2017. I will help you to do so by returning to this regularly in the coming months. You say that the Council of Ministers will decide whether or not to decide, for my part, whether or not to abolish the system and transform it into a new system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u53	I am always careful, because it was Gaston Eyskens, who once said that when one takes a camel to the Council of Ministers, one comes out with a dromedary. I am always cautious about this and say that the Council of Ministers will decide whether or not to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u54	This is the advantage of those who are on our side of the table: we may be able to express ourselves a little stronger than you are as a minister. I would like to add one more thing about looking for work on my own. Perhaps it is an idea, now that the re-integrating pathways are being started, to include those involved. It seems to me quite obvious that, if the employee asks, he will be included in the reintegration paths, as we are now setting them up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u55	It's gonna happen soon. Now, however, we are talking about a pension where this is not possible. The rules must be drawn up in such a way as to enable them to work. If, instead of receiving a pension, they receive a sickness benefit, the possibilities are open to them to make use of the reintegration paths.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u56	I agree with the wish that a decision on this matter should be taken quickly. It is one of the few cases in Social Affairs where there is little controversy. I think everyone agrees that the current system is out of date. First and foremost, it is bad for those involved, who are always on the verge of poverty and end up in some sort of forgetful pit. It is also not good for budgetary reasons, but that is less important in this case than the disadvantage that the people concerned themselves suffer from. This also fits seamlessly in the context of the general harmonisation of systems we implement. Since there are so few objections, I really hope that the regulation will be there soon. The scheme will, of course, apply immediately to those who arrive from the entry into force of the relevant measures. But we also need to look at who is already receiving a sickness pension. Perhaps they too can make use of the reintegration plan. They must be given the necessary guidance and help to get back into the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u57	Mr President, Minister, this question dates back to 19 October, and I am going to try to update it a little. The government has decided to remove a quarter of the planned welfare adjustment from the lowest benefits. This means, for example, that long-term sick and disabled people still have to lose purchasing power. The CM announced that one out of two long-term sick people will not live with the benefit. More than half of those families with long-term ill and financial problems say they do not care. A third of families with disabilities postpone medical expenses for financial reasons. Four out of ten disabled people with a disability live below the poverty line. If extra costs such as special transport and medical costs are charged, nearly eight disabled people out of ten live in poverty. However, the government agreement states that the minimum social security benefits and social assistance benefits will be increased to the level of the European poverty threshold. This government is putting this rarely positive measure on its feet in the coalition agreement and is doing the opposite. The people with the lowest benefits are reduced by a quarter of the anticipated welfare adjustment. In IPA, a cheque of 75% of the envelope is awarded to the benefits. Why isn't 100 % of the envelope given today? Madam Minister, how do you identify the removal of a quarter of the planned welfare adjustment with the intention in the government agreement to raise the minimum social security benefits and social assistance benefits to the level of the European poverty threshold?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u58	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, in October 2016, the government adapted the financial envelope for the overall welfare adjustment in the three systems to EUR 169.9 million in 2017 and EUR 506.8 million in 2018. These envelopes take into account a reduction of 161 million euros in 2017 and 2018. The government reached that decision because of the persistent adverse relationship between the number of beneficiaries and the active population, a downward adjustment of economic growth for 2017 and in order to ensure a sustainable financial balance of social security. Paragraph 2 of Article 5, 72 and 73a of the Law of 23 December 2005 on the Generation Pact refers to those parameters. Moreover, the various adjustments to welfare benefits have a financial impact, both on those currently receiving income replacement benefits and on future beneficiaries. Those costs shall not be taken into account for two years. In addition, the government has reduced the current amount that may be spent to take account of future costs and to spread the additional structural expenditure for certain welfare adjustment measures across different generations. The government wants to maintain an appropriate social security system, but it also remains financially sustainable. The government asked the social partners and said that the use of the welfare envelope should be directed towards the target group with the highest risk of poverty, without increasing the pitfalls in terms of employment and inactivity. It has been proposed to maintain the envelope for the social assistance system, taking account in particular of income replacement allowances for people with disabilities. A letter to this effect, signed by the Prime Minister, was sent to the Presidents of the National Labour Council and the Central Council for Business on 17 November 2016. On 2 February 2017, government approved the interprofessional agreement 2017-2018, as well as point B thereof, which proposes the use of the available envelope for 2017 and 2018 for the adaptation of social benefits to prosperity. In their proposal, the social partners have ensured that all minimum amounts from the different sectors and the social security system are raised. So everyone's getting better. In addition, emphasis was placed on the oldest pensions and on the benefits of those entitled with a family burden for whom the risk of poverty is indeed greater. The income replacement allowances for people with disabilities will be increased by 2.9 % on 1 September 2017 to restore the link with the living wage. I would also remind you that for 2015-2016 and 2017-2018, the government provided for the welfare adjustment in an envelope of EUR 627.2 million and EUR 506 million respectively. The social partners have responded to the Prime Minister's demand, i.e. the government, to increase the income of the people most at risk of poverty by the highest percentage by adjusting the welfare envelope. I believe that this was a good thing and that we have always taken a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u59	Madam Secretary, speaking of steps, these are rather small steps. I believe that the philosophy of that envelope was to take greater steps so that the people who live on benefit, and especially those with great disabilities, catch up. A certain catch-up on the poverty line would bring people back to life and hang them on to the evolution of well-being. This envelope isn't completely spent, you said. I expected from you, from the minister who had said that nothing would come out of her pockets, that you would wage a fight in principle to maintain those 161 million euros. My question was not who benefits from what is in the envelope, but how many people cannot be helped because they refuse to spend the entire envelope, which should be a government priority today!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u60	Mr Hedebouw, in the former Di Rupo government, I was Secretary of State for Combating Poverty. I have to tell you that the welfare envelope was much smaller at the time. The amount was smaller and only 65% of it was spent. As Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, I would have preferred a larger envelope. At that time, we also ensured that people with the highest risk of poverty could make the most of it. You may find an increase of 2.9 % but peanuts, but I don't know if you know what this means. In any event, these measures have shown that the risk of poverty in our country has remained under control. If you say the steps are too small, that's your opinion. I also say: the more, the merrier. But I believe that this is a realistic envelope and a realistic amount. We need to keep an eye on the whole picture and not just the benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u61	Madam Minister, we have had this debate a few times. The decisions taken under Di Rupo, of course, do not bind my group. It is not because it was supposedly left-wing parties, that I feel bound by those decisions. At the time, I regretted that there was not enough spending. Secondly, remember that your government has taken certain measures in the areas of excise duties, VAT and index jump. That too must be caught up. In this sense, this envelope is a compensation for, among other things, the index jump. That's why I don't think it's happening enough. The third point concerns figures, Mrs De Block. How can we in Belgium ensure that the wealth produced goes a little to those people? That is, of course, a philosophical, budgetary and political debate on which we are unlikely to agree. This doesn't seem so bad to me. I believe that the political struggle in our society continues. I feel an increasingly broad consensus among people who are wondering how in a rich country like Belgium there is not going to be a little of those abilities to the people who need it most. People are wondering why you are not applying the following simple measure. It is simply important that all social benefits in the country be raised above the level of poverty. We almost organize poverty by placing them below that level. That is the problem that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u62	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, as you say, that is a philosophical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u63	Madam Secretary, it's another question that dates back to October 19th, so I'll update them a little bit. In October, it became known that you want to develop a system in which pregnant women in risk jobs stay in work longer, elsewhere in the company. Women who, for example, come into contact with chemical substances may stay home from pregnancy in order not to endanger their child. Social workers who may come into contact with physical violence are also covered by that group. I quote: 'We must first consider whether adapted work is possible', you say. In practice, this benefit is too easy to claim and women are put at home against their wishes. You said that in a press release of October 2016. Do you have any figures on this? On what basis do you base the claim that many women have to stay at home against their will? In order to force the employer to seek a solution, he will have to pay 10% of the benefit if the worker remains effectively at home. The measure should generate €25 million in 2017. That is what is happening now. If the pregnant worker finds adapted work within the holding, she can continue to work. However, the fact that the employer is actually sanctioned if he cannot provide an adapted job will put pressure on the employer to flirt with the limits of protection legislation and thus with the health hazard limits of a pregnant woman and her child. The legislation on the protection of pregnancy at work is not very good in our country. They're short births. It's only gonna get worse. Moreover, the measure threatens to be counter-productive. Women who are allowed to stay home longer are those at risk of infectious diseases such as hepatitis, tuberculosis, cytomegaly, rubella, etc. Those who do not have antibodies against them will be included in the risk group. Other risks include exposure to a number of chemicals and exposure to physical agents such as ionising radiation, mechanical vibration and noise. Sensitive professions include health professionals, nurses, doctors, veterinarians and carers, operating rooms staff and persons working with young or sick children, etc. They are more sensitive to this rule. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Do you recognise that pregnancy protection in our country is generally inadequate and therefore needs to be strengthened rather than broken down? Can you explain exactly what you mean by women who are put home against their will? Are there any figures on that? What are your views on the danger that the dismantling of pregnancy protection in occupational risks could entail additional costs for health care?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u64	Mr Hedebouw, the measure you mentioned has not yet entered into force. The precise implementation procedures of these measures are further examined and developed technically. In addition, we would prefer to make employers more responsible for the removal of pregnant workers in the same way as employers' response to the reintegration of long-term ill workers. The Labour Act of 16 March 1971 imposes on the employer certain obligations which apply if the worker has informed her employer of the pregnancy. These protection measures also apply to breastfeeding workers. If a risk is proposed in the working environment, the employer must, after assessing the risk, take certain measures to avoid the worker's exposure to the risk. There is a step-by-step arrangement whereby the complete suspension of the performance of the contract of employment is only eligible as a last resort. The employer may also adjust the working conditions or working hours of the persons concerned. If such adaptation is not technically or objectively possible or cannot reasonably be required for justified reasons, the employer shall ensure that the person concerned is able to carry out other work which permits his condition. If this other work is not technically or objectively possible, or cannot reasonably be required for justified reasons, the performance of the contract of employment shall be suspended. In addition, the employer must take one of the measures mentioned in respect of certain risks identified in a Royal Decree. If the worker suffers loss of earnings as a result of the adjustment of working conditions or working hours or the performance of other work, she may be entitled to a maternity allowance paid by her sickness fund. The sickness fund also grants maternity benefits if the performance of the contract of employment has been completely suspended. In recent years, a number of new cases of partial and complete removal have occurred with the grant of maternity benefits. In 2013, there were 700 partial removal benefits due to pregnancy. For complete removal there were 22 892. In 2015, there were in the first case, i.e. in part, 711 and in the second case 23 004. Of course, in those cases of complete removal, it is not always an abuse, whereby the worker is forced to suspend the full implementation of the contract of employment. The aim of introducing a response system is to encourage employers to step up their efforts to adapt the working conditions or working hours of the worker or to have other work done. A complete suspension of the performance of the contract of employment and, consequently, the granting of only a replacement income by maternity insurance for employees should be the last solution. It is a question of improving compliance with current legislation. I do not therefore foresee any additional difficulties in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u65	Madam Minister, I remain a little on my hunger, on the one hand, on the question of being able to demonstrate what is at the root of your argument, that is to say that women have taken this maternity leave but that many would like to work at all costs. I feel like you're not answering that question. On the other hand, you are putting forward the figure of 25 million savings. You don't hide the budget targets well. On the other hand, you have not really responded to the danger to these mothers, linked to certain diseases that could worsen the costs for social security. By finally pushing for accountability, you place individual responsibility on employees and employers to decide whether or not to take back work. That's pretty unfortunate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u66	Madam Minister, I asked a question about civil servants' pensions in public hospitals last year, because the issue was topical at that time as a result of the announcement that a number of hospitals in Limburg were very seriously threatened. The merger of public hospitals and private hospitals and the abolition of the permanent appointment of statutory bodies mean that the pension funds of local authorities have to pay more and more pensions, without any new contributions. In Bree and Maaseik the greenhouse will be empty in 2019, in Tongeren and Bilzen there will be a huge problem in ten years and in Hasselt the greenhouse will be empty in 15 years. The same problem also arises in the other provinces. On 24 October 2011, a law was adopted that provided for a systematic increase in the employer's contribution to the wager of statutory appointed employees. In order to prevent local authorities and hospitals from avoiding solidarity by no longer recruiting statutory bodies and thus transferring the invoice to local authorities that are still recruiting civil servants, a response contribution was introduced. Public hospitals have since paid an additional contribution, the amount of which is proportional to the gap between their current contribution and their actual pension costs. In a previous reply, you indicated that the overall amount of the hospital response contribution to be paid will rise from around EUR 26 million per year in 2015 to around EUR 72 million in 2020. The government agreement provides: "The policy of neutralising the increase in the contribution of hospitals affiliated to the Consolidated Pension Fund of the RSZPPO to compensate for pension expenses of statutory staff is continued." That's what the coalition agreement says. That is why you had reserved some of the tax-shift funds in the form of an envelope for hospitals for this purpose. At that time, your cabinet had simulations made on how these resources would be used exactly. In addition, you yourself admitted at the time that these funds would not be enough and that additional accompanying measures would be needed to arrive at a structural solution. Firstly, how many hospitals are involved in the whole of the problem? What is the budgetary size of the total pension contribution for the hospitals concerned for the next five years on average? How much will the net cost for the hospitals, after deduction of the intervention via BFM? I would like to have an overview per hospital that is confronted with this. Secondly, have the simulations on the use of the envelope for the hospitals in the tax shift been completed? I suppose so. Can you give a more detailed picture of how the funds will be used? Finally, what initiatives will you take in the short and medium term in order to find a more structural solution to neutralise the additional costs, especially in the light of a hospital landscape that is in full swing, with hospital networks where a dead weight like that additional cost to the merged and public hospitals can be a difficulty to have good conversations with other hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u67	Mr Vercamer, this is one of the dossiers that passes from minister to minister and is thus a legacy of the past, as many are. We also questioned other ministers on this matter at the time. In 2016, 59 hospitals had pension costs for their statutory staff. The State's intervention amounted to EUR 57.2 million in 2016 for a total of EUR 210.6 million in patronage. In addition, on 1 July 2016, an amount of 10.5 million euros from the tax shift was distributed among the hospitals that had a financial burden of resilience contribution in 2014. That was the last year with the final data. This budget is recurrent and will be increased in the following years as part of the progress of the tax shift. I have estimates of the total pension costs of hospitals and state funding, although not by hospital. We have to ask that ourselves, and I think you should put a written question to that effect. The forecasts for 2016 are as follows: total charges 220 million euros, total funding 67 million euros, difference 152 million euros. In 2017, the difference is 156 million euros, nearly 158 million euros in 2018, 167 million euros in 2019 and 162 million euros in 2020. So it goes up to 2019 and then falls back. The tax shift's budget was distributed in proportion to their additional pension contribution for individual rehabilitation in respect of the penultimate civil year for the year of funding on the total of the charges of the same character of the hospitals concerned. In order to maintain the right to funding, from 2017 onwards, the hospital must prove each year that the average number of full-time equivalent statutory documents or the number of full-time equivalent articles of association made available by a local or provincial government and affiliated to the SIBIS Solidarity Fund does not exceed the average number of full-time equivalent articles of association or statutes made available for the year 2016. If the hospital does not reduce the number of statutory employees compared to 2016, the budget will be recovered and redistributed to the other hospitals. The additional budget of the tax shift is structural. It will be increased every year between 2018 and 2020. In 2016 it was 10.5 million euros In 2018 it will amount to 4.8 million euros, and in 2020 it will amount to 4.8 million euros. The cumulative amount is €23.8 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u68	Madam Minister, I asked for the figures per hospital, because there is an agreement to stop recruiting statutory staff from hospitals and to introduce a statute for staff in private hospitals and public hospitals. If at the end of your reply you were talking about hospital staff at the end of your reply, the comparison might well be uneven. There has been a lot of discussion about this in the past. However, you are now saying that the distribution will be based on an average which should not exceed the previous one, which I believe is a very good additional condition. You're indicating that things are going up. There is no full cost neutrality today. I therefore continue to insist, whatever budget discussion takes place, that sufficient resources are allocated to achieve cost-neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u69	Mr President, I will ask both questions, because I represent the whole of my group. Quality care, well-being and culture are crucial for a society. The employees of the non-profit sector are committed to this every day. Quality cannot be achieved without a decent wage and working conditions. The non-profit workers have every right to demand this and to put solutions to the bottlenecks on the table. Workers from all sectors of the health, welfare and culture sector gave a strong signal to the government in a trade union action on Thursday 24 November 2016. I'm giving a slight update. As you know, on 21 March 2017, a trade union action by the sector will continue on these points. Meanwhile, the federal government announced large-scale savings on the reimbursement of medicines and on district health centres. It also saves on the ADV days of staff in the health sector, which are the famous wrinkle days. Madam Secretary, we are now a few months later. How's the wrinkle day file coming? Is there gonna be a deal coming out of the bus? In which direction will it agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u70	Mr Van Hees has tabled the same question, but it was put by Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u71	Mr President, I am asking the question for the whole of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u72	Mr President, it was exactly the same question. I found it funny that by one minute difference, Mr Hedebouw's question came in at 1:27 p.m. and the other came in at 13:28 p.m., crek got the same question. This is indeed about like-minded spirits. Mr Hedebouw, of course you were one minute, one second faster than your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u73	Madam Minister, it is a technical fact, we are not always sure who can come to the committee and so sometimes we both ask the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u74	Some of these questions have already been addressed in detail and are also included in the report of the committee, of this committee but also of the Health Committee, on the 2017 budget. I repeat part of the answer. The healthcare budget is still increasing by 584 million euros compared to 2016. But it is true that savings were made on the increase in resources so as not to derail the budget. The pharmaceutical industry is making a great effort and accounting for half the savings. As a result, prices are falling. There will be an extension of the patent cliff, a support for biosimulars and the percentage of cheapest prescription will also be increased. The budget of the medical centres has increased by 23% since my arrival. Also this year an additional amount of EUR 5 million is foreseen, an increase of 5% compared to 2016. So what you're saying isn't exactly right. Finally, in connection with the wrinkle days for staff in the federal care sector, I would remind you that these remain as acquired rights. That is what I have always said: the people who have those wrinkle days will keep them, but you will keep talking about taking them away and so on. These are additional leave days for healthcare workers who should provide a better work-life balance from a specific age. I repeat, acquired rights are not affected, as always in social security. Those who have those wrinkle days today will continue to have them in the current system. The planned reform currently being negotiated with the trade unions in the run-up to a possible social agreement with the healthcare sector is one of the issues on the table. There are two main lines of action. Firstly, raising age limits, in line with the evolution of working longer. Now 12 wrinkle days are allowed to the people from 45 years, 24 from 50 years, and 36 from 55 years. That is to say, people from 45 years of age who are perhaps right in the middle of their careers are actually allowed to take an end-of-life measure. For those who have studied longer haven't even been in the middle yet. The second line of action is to build a distinction between people with caring jobs, who should actually be available 7 days out of 7 for early, late and night shifts, and people who have administrative jobs and who work from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., who do the secretariat in a nursing home. What's the difference with another employee's secretariat? This isn't particularly incriminating anymore. They do not do weekends, they do not do nights, they do not do early or late shifts. It was never meant to be so generous for everyone. In future, we want to distinguish between people who have administrative jobs and those who have caring jobs and who are physically burdened more. All these modalities are being negotiated with the social partners. Not only about this, but also about other issues that better regulate the work-life balance for people in the healthcare sector. It's about leave arrangements, and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u75	Madam Secretary, we never said that it would be taking away the days, it's about who's starting now and not working. That's what it's about. It is therefore effective around working conditions in the sector. That's what the union front is about, that's what the union actions are about. In that sense, I believe that there is, of course, a great difference. For people working in the sector, they are often difficult occupations. This was one of the measures to compensate for the very high workload. Those people work with people. One cannot, of course, stop working during the shift. I think people should go first for pennies. In this sense, I hope that the government will now leave a little more openness to the social partners in the negotiations for a different career. At 45 years, people have often been very tired in this sector. It is often carrying people, psychologically and physically. So I really hope that the negotiations will improve this sector. Of course, I support the trade union actions on 21 March. I hope that there will be a lot of people here to make it clear that we cannot go on like this in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u76	Listen, on March 23rd, a meeting is planned to continue working with the unions. If two days before they all like to stand on the street again, then they should. The word must be put around the table by the representatives of the trade unions. It is there that we must achieve a result! 500 or 1 000 people on the doorstep will not facilitate consultation inside. If you feel like taking a walk on March 21st, I won't stop you. Either a negotiating calendar is laid down to produce results or one simply says 'foret' and continues to argue and stand on the street. I've seen you with your megaphone. You arrive there at the beginning of the action, you shout with something and then you are gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u77	No, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u78	When we received the delegation, you were no longer there. Run the big Hedebouw show. Please, but negotiations are being held at a table. Agreeds are made at the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u79	Madam Minister, first of all, it will not be 500 or 1 000 people, there will be many more. You're welcome. Secondly, I will of course remain until the end of the demonstration. I don't want to miss a minute of it. Thirdly, Madam Secretary, it is the other way round. You haven't changed your position since November-December 2016. You state clearly that you will continue and wish to implement a global reduction in wrinkle days. The workers don't agree with that. Madam Secretary, you may find it a democratic problem that you do not have everything to decide. However, this is not how it works in Belgium. That's too bad. However, you must take account of the working population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u80	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, I have never said that I would decide. I have just indicated that it is on the table of the social agreement, along with countless other elements. The trade unions have made proposals. The employers have made proposals. The government has made proposals. I don't have to explain to you how a social dialogue is going. You're pretending to be a naive. However, I do not decide that. It is the social dialogue that decides. I would simply point out that it is a split position to establish a calendar for negotiations and then, when the calendar is completely fixed, to indicate that it will still be on the streets in between. If you like to be there, that is your right. I take it you'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u81	Mr President, Madam Minister, I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u82	You're welcome at my door. I hope you'll bring a can and a brush next time. After all, you always leave a lot of garbage on the sidewalk. That's what's bothering everyone. There are disabled people coming over there to get checked out. There's gonna be a lot of people in that tower. Last time, it was a real disgrace what you left there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u83	Mr President, Madam Minister, you must remain calm and take a philosophical approach. You must understand that a lot of people are against your policy right now. I know you're not used to that and that things are making a difference. I can also understand that the polls make you a little nervous. However, you do feel that in society the breeding ground of people who believe that it cannot go on in this way in the healthcare sector is becoming ever wider. The fact that you are not responding in your capacity as Minister is strange. After all, it is necessary. After all, you do feel that the wrinkle day dossier is a symbolic dossier, in which people say that they are tired and tired. We work with people. We don't just work with objects. We don't work with objects, we work with people. Minister, you need to open the negotiations a little more. If you tell me that you don't decide on your own and that you're going to exercise all your political weight to support the unions by telling the employers that they're exaggerating when they're just thinking of making numbers, that seems interesting to me. But I don't hear that here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u84	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u85	No, that's exactly what I regret. Take sides, Madam Minister. Choose!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u86	In the Netherlands they have promenade. None of those orbits have started for 45 years. End-of-life measures apply at the end of the career and not in the middle or even in the beginning of that career. Secondly, I think a distinction should be made between those who have a care profession and those who have an administrative profession, from 9 to 5, coincidentally in a care institution. Perhaps you will be sold there and considered an acquired right. This is also an acquired right and some expect it to continue to be so in the future, but it is not explained to other people with heavy professions why 12, 24 and 36 days on top of the other leave days are given to people who have an administrative job, coincidentally in a healthcare institution or hospital. People don't get to explain that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u87	I think you're gonna get this easily explained because people can sense exactly what's going on. But we will not agree on this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 15162 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u89	Madam Minister, the artist's statute, the so-called 1bis regime, was amended during the previous legislature. The Programme Act of 26 December 2013 introduced a number of amendments. The aim was threefold: to clarify and adapt one regulation to the evolution of the artistic professions; two, to achieve a greater equality approach between workers in the artistic sector; three, to maintain the specific and more advantageous regime for workers in the artistic sector, without opening the door to abuse. The current federal government wants an update on the artist's statute. The coalition agreement also refers to this. The coalition agreement states literally that the government recognizes the individual status for the artist. The current rules are reviewed, adjusted and optimised to prevent abuse and to counter the unemployment trap. Madam Minister, I have four specific questions. Firstly, the coalition agreement announces that evaluation. Did that evaluation start yet? Secondly, will you continue that evaluation? Thirdly, which actors will be involved in this evaluation? Finally, what timing is envisaged for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u90	Thank you, Mr Raskin, for your question on the evaluation of the artists' statute. Article 1a of the Law of 27 June 1969 on the revision of the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 on the social security of workers was indeed amended during the previous reign by the Programme Act of 26 December 2013 and was amended by the Law of 20 July 2015 on various provisions in social matters. A number of major changes result from this. Firstly, the introduction of an artist's visa designed to subject the following persons to a general social security scheme for workers: those who, because they cannot be bound by a contract of employment, lack one or more essential elements for the existence of the contract within the meaning of the Law of 3 July 1978 on contracts of employment and who, in return for payment of a wage, provide services or produce work of an artistic nature on behalf of a natural person or a legal person. Secondly, the examination of the visa application by the Artists' Committee, whose composition was revised and the powers extended. Thirdly, to evaluate the artistic nature of the services/works in question in relation to a list of sectors and a methodology established by that committee. In order for the committee to be able to carry out its new tasks, the rules had to be adapted. Following the publication of the texts, the Committee was able to start examining the files on 1 January 2016. All these changes result from the opinions formulated by the National Labour Council on the reform of the artist's statute. These are opinions 1744, 1810 and 1931. The National Labour Council has again met several times this year to discuss the social status of artists and to follow up on these opinions, namely on 14 January 2016, 23 June 2016 and 27 October 2016. During the June meeting, the Chairman of the Artists' Committee had provided the social partners with an evaluation paper on the functioning of the committee, which enabled him to discuss with them certain issues concerning the regulation of artists. These discussions are also closely monitored by the Cabinet. These meetings at the National Labour Union where my administration is present are also an opportunity for the social partners to deal with the problems they have in practice. In February 2016, on my initiative, that of the Minister of Work, the Minister of Self-Employees and the Secretary of State for Combating Fraud, an inter-kabinets meeting was held, which included representatives of the policy cells of the trade ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, to evaluate the artist's status for the first time, on the basis, among other things, of the statistics of the Committee on Artists, the National Social Security Service and the National Employment Service. A second interkabinets meeting took place on 31 January this year. A new meeting was scheduled for 6 March. That was yesterday, but I haven't gotten a feedback from it yet. At this last meeting people from the field of activity, including the chairman of the committee, will also be present to explain their experiences. Since the Committee on Artists is housed in the Social Security Office, which is responsible for its secretariat, inter alia because it is present at each meeting, I can also assure you that some problems and proposals to improve regulation have been raised from the administration. The review envisaged in the coalition agreement has therefore been launched for some time, both within the government and at the NAR. We hope to be able to distil a number of improvements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u91	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. It is good to hear that the evaluation is ongoing and that at least an attempt is being made to achieve the stated ambition. You have clearly referred to the work that has already been done within the NAR. There is therefore already an evaluation paper on the table. Several inter-kabinnet working groups have already come together. So it seems clear to me that you are aware of the merits of the question. The interest groups have actually made the same assessment. Maybe you're already in touch with them. An organization like Artists United, not least in the sector, comes to the same conclusion and, together with politics, with the government, is asking the party to take steps on this matter. I understand that some contacts have already taken place behind the scenes in the inter-kabinette working groups. Allow me to make a suggestion in closing my reply. Perhaps it would be interesting to involve broader policy in the sector, to have a thorough debate, so that the views of all stakeholders in that dossier become clear. Mr President, perhaps it would be interesting to hold a hearing on this matter in this committee in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u92	Mr. Raskin, that's a good idea. We shall discuss this in the course of the work. If I remember correctly, Mr Demir has also asked a question to that effect, but Mr Demir is now Secretary of State, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u93	I didn't miss that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dedry's 15494 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u95	Madam Minister, there are several means of lodging complaints against an inspector today, but it is also possible to check preventively whether control doctors are operating correctly. Both employers and employees can engage in a doctor-distinguisher in a dispute with an inspector. Who can decide to perform a new medical examination. In addition, a follow-up committee for control medicine was set up at the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. It is responsible for dealing with complaints relating to the organisation of the control and competence and independence of an auditor or medical examiner. In addition, according to the law of 1999, the Social Inspectorate can act if there are problems with control doctors. So there is a whole set of possibilities. In what ways does the follow-up committee for control medicine act against control doctors whose checks are not sufficiently thorough or insufficiently independent? Does the follow-up committee only check on a preventive basis or also on the basis of complaints? In what ways does the Social Inspectorate act? How often does it need to intervene? Do you also plan further policy initiatives to ensure the in-depth action and independence of auditors? I was a little surprised because the question ended up with you. I had put it to Minister Peeters first, but she was sent to you. So I hope you can give me an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u96	I can give you an answer to a number of questions, but it is indeed, to a large extent, a responsibility of my fellow Minister for Employment, Minister Peeters. The application of the Law of 13 June 1999 on control medicine falls entirely within the competence of Minister Peeters. The Department for Medical Evaluation and Control of the RIZIV is of course my responsibility. He shall have the power of control over the counsellors of the insurance institutions in accordance with Article 147 of the coordinated ZIV Act. Those doctors have the power to decide on the right to benefits in the event of incapacity for work and on reimbursement of health care. Only labour law banks are authorised to deal with disputes concerning the decisions taken by those doctors. In addition, the Committee of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service has disciplinary powers against the medical counsellors under Article 155 of the coordinated ZIV Act. Regarding the regional committees of the Medical Board on Invalidity, composed of a medical inspector and two advisory doctors of the insurance institutions, abolished in 2016, complaints for abnormal behaviour of the doctors of those committees were dealt with by an ombuds doctor of the RIZIV. In the 10 000 annual investigations, the ombudsmen dealt with some 10 complaints per year, i.e. 10 out of 10 000. Disputes of decisions of those committees were also dealt with through the labour court. Finally, there is a discipline of doctors in the Social Inspectorate. These are the medical inspectors from the Medical Evaluation and Control Department. They have the power to check the conformity, reality and opportunity of the reimbursed care benefits in the compulsory health insurance, in accordance with Articles 139 and 146 of the coordinated ZIV Act. For those doctors, the disciplinary power lies with the Executive Board of the RIZIV. The other aspects fall within the competence of Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u97	Madam Minister, it is particularly good to hear that there are very few complaints in relation to a very large number of checks carried out. That is reassuring and the most important thing. For a number of other aspects, I will address your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u98	Madam Minister, I asked you a written question a while ago about recovering costs for medical care for citizens from outside the European Union. Your reply showed that this country concluded bilateral agreements with about ten third countries on social security, including special provisions in the field of medical care. On the basis of these bilateral agreements, citizens who have health insurance in these third countries can have access to our medical care. The costs will then be recovered from the country in question. I had a few more questions. The figures show that nothing has been recovered from Macedonia since 2010. What is the reason for this, Madam Secretary? Was there no refund or any other method of reimbursement agreed? Nothing had to be recovered from Morocco and Kosovo over the last five years. What's the explanation for this? Is it true that Belgium bears all the costs of medical care for people from Morocco and Kosovo? If so, what are the costs incurred by our country since 2010? Is there an evolution here? The bilateral agreement also stipulates that Belgium will bear the costs for Moroccans and Kosovars who work here and who treat them as equals. What exactly are those people who are treated as equals? Do Moroccan and Kosovar unemployed people, who have already worked in their country of origin, have the right to that refund by that country, or should they have worked here too? If so, how many days of work are sufficient to open the right to reimbursement? There is no separate treaty between Belgium and Kosovo today. The old agreement with Yugoslavia still applies. Are there plans to negotiate a new, modern agreement with Kosovo? Some agreements were concluded decades ago. Would it be appropriate to review a number of agreements and review a number of provisions? Is it possible to consider including payment deadlines in the agreements? Are you willing to do this? Is it possible to renegotiate specific provisions without compromising the entire agreement, because that is not the point I want to make? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u99	Mr Raskin, you have already asked me a written question on this. From the figures given in my answer to your question No. 1192 it appears that Belgium has indeed recovered from Macedonia the costs of medical care provided to Macedonian insured persons on Belgian territory. However, we must note that it was recovered, but not yet paid by Macedonia. The services regularly contact their Macedonian colleagues to obtain additional explanations on the absence of refunds. They do this repeatedly and shortly after each other. As far as Kosovo is concerned, no costs will be recovered because the bilateral agreement on social security between Belgium and the former Yugoslavia in relations with Kosovo, at least as regards compulsory health insurance, was suspended. It follows that nothing can be recovered because the Kosovar insured persons do not have access to medical care in Belgium on behalf of Kosovo. The costs of medical care, if any, shall always be borne by the persons concerned. As regards Morocco, it was only from 1 January 2005 that a limited implementation of the 1968 Agreement on social security between Belgium and Morocco in the field of medical care was carried out. At that time, mutual reimbursement of the costs of medical care for the members of the family of workers residing in the other country and not entitled to medical care in their country of residence was provided. In other words, Belgium can apply to Morocco for the family members of workers who are subject to social security in Morocco who live in Belgium. In practice, we are not aware of such cases. In other words, Belgium has not had any case in which, on this basis, Morocco's costs were recoverable. On 1 May 2014, new implementing measures for the part of medical care entered into force, providing for the mutual reimbursement of costs in medical care for a number of additional situations, in particular for necessary medical care during a temporary stay of up to 3 months or, for posted workers, during the period of secondment and, of course, for the family members accompanying them during that period of secondment. If the Belgian sickness funds have not made any payments in favour of Moroccan insured persons who are entitled in Belgium to medical care borne by Morocco under the abovementioned bilateral agreement, then we cannot recover anything either. If Moroccan and Kosovar nationals work in Belgium and are subject to Belgian social security on the basis of that employment and have therefore paid the required social security contributions, they shall also open the right to reimbursement of medical care costs borne by the compulsory insurance of medical care. Moroccan and Kosovar unemployed who are resident in Belgium and who have not worked here are not entitled to reimbursement of the costs of medical care borne by Belgium on the basis of their status as unemployed persons. They have not yet opened those rights. For example, if, as a result of a possible employment in Belgium, they are first subject to Belgian social security and therefore have paid the required social security contributions, they shall immediately open up the right to reimbursement of the costs of medical care borne by the compulsory sickness insurance until the end of the following calendar year, as well as all other persons who, for the first time, acquire the status of a beneficiary within the meaning of the compulsory medical care insurance. As has already been pointed out, the old provisions of the Treaty of Yugoslavia on compulsory health insurance in our relations with Kosovo have been suspended. What is the problem with Kosovo? They do not have their own health insurance. Furthermore, negotiations are indeed underway with Kosovo to try to reach a new treaty. As long as Kosovo does not have a comprehensive health insurance system, there will be no provisions on health care. Many old agreements have been revised, but not yet in force. The new Treaty with Tunisia was signed on 28 March 2013 and approved by the Court on 16 July 2015. The new treaty with Turkey was signed on 11 April 2014 and approved by the Chamber on 12 November 2015. The new agreement with Morocco was signed on 18 February 2014 and will be discussed in the plenary session of the Chamber on 9 March 2017. The Committee on External Relations of the Chamber has already adopted the text unanimously. These are all mixed treaties, so the ratification procedure takes a long time. Initial contacts have been made with Algeria to review the old treaty. The other agreements relating to health care are with Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia and are of a more recent date. The administrative arrangements implemented by the Treaties with these countries, which are now being concluded, systematically provide that payments are to be made within 12 months of the recovery of the claims. Apparently, we must send more than one apple to Macedonia, because until now that country has not paid anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u100	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u101	Mr President, Madam Minister, for asbestos, the first medical evidence comes from Great Britain. In 1898, L. Anderson indicated in his annual report his wish that asbestos be included in the list of hazardous dusts. In 1906, Dr. Murray was the first physician to explicitly associate asbestos with lung disease. The clinical descriptions will succeed and lead to the recognition of asbestosis as an occupational disease by a law in 1930. In Belgium, this recognition occurs later, in 1953 for asbestosis and in 1982 for mesothelioma, while the first cases of recognition of mesothelioma as an occupational disease date back to 1953 in South Africa. The use of flogged asbestos has been prohibited since 1 January 1980. The risks associated with asbestos have been exceptionally publicised because of their non-exclusive professional character. It will suffice to mention the case of the Berlaymont building, for example. This media coverage notes that if the disease had affected only exposed workers, it would most likely not have acquired such societal importance, which is not the least scandal. Asbestos has been phased out in Western Europe. It was banned in Denmark in 1986, in Italy in 1992, in France in 1997 and for all the countries of the European Union in 2005. In Belgium, a royal decree prohibiting a very large number of asbestos applications was published on 3 February 1998. This Royal Decree was repealed by the Royal Decree of 23 October 2001, which provides for a general ban on asbestos from 1 January 2002. However, the use of chrysotile for certain specific applications was still allowed until 1 January 2005. Asbestos was a foreseeable disaster. Yet the hecatomb is not close to stopping. In countries that have banned asbestos (about 50 in 2013), this material used for a century is still present everywhere in businesses, buildings and houses. It is also found in means of transportation such as railway cars or ships. For a long time, workers will be confronted in many trades. Asbestos production has remained significant and stable since the early 2000s (nearly 2 million tonnes per year). In 2012, Russia produced half, most of which is exported. It is followed by China and Brazil. At the top of asbestos users, China (more than 30% of world consumption) is followed by India. According to ILO estimates, 100,000 people die every year in the world as a result of occupational exposure to asbestos. The damage caused by asbestos – which it still causes – will prompt the legislator to adopt a programme law of 27 December 2006, creating an asbestos fund to compensate, under certain conditions and on a flat-rate basis, all victims of asbestos who cannot claim, through the Occupational Diseases Fund, their right to recognition following occupational exposure. This law has extinguished any possibility of calling into question the responsibility of the poisoners. Article 125(1) precludes any action against the responsible third party in return for the financing of the Fund. This is only possible under strict conditions prescribed by Article 125(2), which is a copy-paste of Article 51 of the Law on the Reparation of Occupational Diseases and Article 46 of the Law on Accidents at Work. Madam Secretary, what are your views on extending the possibilities for the victims of asbestos poisoning to hold the responsible third party responsible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u102	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, the Asbestos Fund has indeed proved its worth in recent years. The number of recognised cases decreased from 25 to 7 between 2011 and 2016. So it has actually become a less frequent disease here in Belgium. This is mainly due to a number of preventive measures, as asbestososis requires a very high level of exposure. Certain protection measures were also taken for people in demolition works and so on. Between 2010 and 2016, the Asbestos Fund paid out 9 million, 11 million, 10 million, 14 million, 11 million, 12 million and 13 million respectively to victims and beneficiaries. The Asbestos Fund will indeed celebrate its ten-year existence in April, but I did not wait for that birthday to look at the functioning of the Asbestos Fund. On the basis of its operation and financing, I put a draft law on the government table last December on a structural reform of the financing of the Asbestos Fund. There are two aspects to this reform. On the one hand, we want to adapt the income of the fund to real expenditure without exceeding it. Since its inception, the financing of the Asbestos Fund has been overestimated by employers' social contributions, a State subsidy and funding through the social status of the self-employed. The surplus fed a reserve. Over the years, it grew without possibility of use. On the other hand, a new preventive mission is assigned to the Asbestos Fund. It will finance prevention projects following the advice of the Management Committee for Occupational Diseases and Fedris and after agreement of the Government. These are targeted information campaigns or academic studies related to asbestos problems. This is a way of supporting scientific research, both in the diagnosis and in the therapeutic field. A flat-rate budget of up to EUR 650 000 shall be made available annually to cover that new contract. The budget comes from that part of the federal state, the employers and the self-employed. The reason for funding the Asbestos Fund from its establishment to its present date must be sought in the context of the use of asbestos in Belgium until the end of the 20th century. The use of asbestos on a large scale came from 1870, so during the industrial revolution. It was discovered that asbestos could be used for many new applications, that it provided fire protection and that it provided waterproofness, filtration and thermal, electrical and sound insulation. In this way, it has quickly become indispensable in a number of sectors. That historical context explains, on the one hand, that the damage caused by asbestos is not limited to the responsibility of some undertakings regarded as emblematic. It explains, on the other hand, also the extreme difficulty, to demonstrate the identification of the cause of the real damage. Therefore, at the time of the establishment of the Asbestos Fund in 2006, the then government and the social partners agreed to a pragmatic solution, which is a rapid and flat-rate compensation system, without a heavy burden of proof for the victims, some of whom still have a very small life expectancy at the time of the determination of mesothelioma, for example. This system came in return for the generalised contribution and a civil immunity for employers. The latency period was also taken into account before a mesothelioma was expressed. This latency period can vary from 20 to 40 years. In the case of asbestosis, it is on average 10 to 20 years. This led to the fact that cases we see today were long ago caused by companies which do not exist now or whose liability is certainly unproven. Furthermore, the context was completely different at the time. The government recommended the use of asbestos. It was promoted by the government. It was not known the dangers involved in its use. I submitted a draft law on the reform of the financing of the Asbestos Fund to the government. I have also allocated a new prevention mission which could cover targeted information campaigns with insured funding from employers, the federal state and the self-employed. An opinion of the Council of State on that draft law was received on 26 January. This will be submitted to the Chamber in the next few weeks. There was also a question from Mrs Van Peel. The Management Committee for Occupational Diseases of Fedris should quickly submit to me a draft Royal Decree adding ovarian cancer caused by asbestos to the list of recoverable occupational diseases in Belgium. So there may be another condition that has a link to asbestos added to this list. This could increase the number of beneficiaries in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u103	Minister, as far as societal responsibility is concerned, I understand that since 1963 scientists have highlighted the link between pleura cancer, lung cancer and the use of asbestos. In fact, some companies have already been found guilty in this regard. It is not enough to say that this is a societal problem, that the danger was unknown, that everyone encouraged... Victims should be allowed to take action against responsible third parties. It is regrettable to ask them to choose between joining the Occupational Diseases Fund and this approach. From a societal point of view, we should rather encourage the victims who, today, feel a little impoverished in the face of the calamity that falls upon them. Any recourse against a responsible third party in connection with such access to the Fund should not be precluded. I hope, in any case, that you will see your copy again when you finally set your law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u104	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 16022 by Mrs Muylle. She's not here. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer's 16280 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u105	Madam Minister, there is a provision in the Voluntary Act to compensate for the expenses of volunteers. In addition to the flat-rate reimbursement of expenses, volunteers can also receive a bicycle fee. There is a lot of discussion in the sector, because the bicycle allowance for volunteers is different from that for employees of the organisations in which volunteers are or might be active. The ceiling accepted by the Voluntary Act is EUR 0.15 per kilometre travelled, based on a KB approved in 1999. In a circular from the FPS Finance, there is 0.20 euro per kilometre. Compensation for employees would be indexed at EUR 0.22 per kilometre. The latter border is well known to the voluntary organisations. The use of different ceilings leads to confusion. A solution could be to include the same parameter in all legislation and circulars, preferably that of the bicycle allowance for workers. Volunteers are also mostly active in these situations. Do you agree that the existing regime creates uncertainty? Do you see any solution to that? Are you prepared, if necessary, to introduce a bicycle allowance for volunteers in parallel with those of the workers and to request the agreement of Minister Van Overtveldt?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u106	We used to do our best together for the volunteers, Mrs Becq. As regards the tax status of the voluntary allowance, together with my fellow Minister of Work, Kris Peeters, I have prepared a draft law implementing the opinion of the High Council for Volunteers on the evaluation of voluntary legislation. In that design we provide for a provision that makes the bicycle fee applicable to workers also for the volunteers. We have sent the draft opinion to the High Council for Volunteers. If he has given his opinion on this matter, we will submit the draft to the Council of Ministers, with a view to submitting it to Parliament. The proposal in the draft is therefore a tie-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u107	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I fully support you in that. I hope you will also use your persuasion in the Council of Ministers, because 14 days ago Minister Van Overtveldt said he would not change that. Probably didn't know the design was ahead. It is also new to me, but I think it is important that you have the will to do so. The scheme responds to the sighing and legitimate expectation of volunteers working in the same organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u108	Madam Minister, according to reports in the press, you would like to ensure that long-term sick people would be forced to enter a reintegration path with financial sanctions. At the same time, you announce that you are going to address doctors with an abnormal, non-objective prescriptive behaviour, and that is a quote. With these measures, you cross the current regulations, which are only in force for a month, with a focus on reintegration into the workplace through an adapted or different job. During the debate on the draft law on various provisions on labour law in the context of incapacity for work, we specifically warned that the introduction of obligations or sanctions would undermine that system into a mechanism that would serve as a tool for employers to put long-term sick people at a low cost. Moreover, I refer to my reply to Mr Peeters' reply during the debates on the draft law on various labour law provisions relating to incapacity for work in the Social Affairs Committee of 28 November. I quote from the report: "According to Mr Raoul Hedebouw, the Minister contradicts himself. He mentions voluntaryity, but does not rule out sanctions in the future. In terms of flexibility, there are also insufficient safeguards for work adapted to the condition of the worker. Whether the reform really aims at reintegration and does not have a budgetary objective will have to be proved when all the elements of the dossier are clear, including the royal decree which falls within the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. Madam Secretary, today it appears that our fears were justified. It seems that this government is primarily looking for budgetary savings and not the reintegration of long-term sick. It is impossible to defend long-term patients with sanctions in order to step in a path. A person who struggles with the physical, psychological and financial consequences of illness at that time can also threaten with a reduction in his or her benefit. According to the ACV, this sanctioning approach has nothing to do with facilitating reintegration, but it has nothing to do with the blunt saving on the back of long-term sick people. These savings seem to be more important than the well-being of the sick." That's a quote from the ACV. The government parties MR, Open Vld and N-VA, except CD&V, now agree on the sanctioning of long-term ill workers, but there is no consensus as to the time of entry and the nature of the sanctions. Last Friday, 3 March, the N-VA presented a compromise proposal: punishing workers who refuse a reintegration path at the request of the pattern by deleting part of their health insurance. If employers refuse the reintegration process, they would have to pay 10% of health insurance for six months. In the Netherlands, the employer pays two years' wages during the reintegration process and this is consistently linked to, among other things, the duration of the contract of employment and the protection of dismissal during the entire journey. In the event of dismissal, both in the Netherlands and in France, the employer must pay compensation to the employee. If employers simply have to pay 10% of the sickness benefit as a sanction, this is likely to lead to more and faster redundancies. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Why do you think that sanctions should be introduced for the reintegration of long-term sick people? How do you respond to the criticism that the imposition of sanctions could be detrimental to the recovery process of long-term sick people and thus risk counterproductive work? What sanctions do you provide for for doctors with a so-called "sustainable' behaviour, which is abnormal, non-objective? How will you objectify that prescriptive behavior? How do you explain that this is opposed to the new system of reintegration into the labour market, which has only been introduced for a month?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u109	Mr Hedebouw, since December 2016, there has indeed been a regulatory framework for the reintegration pathways of workers into incapacity for work. The sickness funds, the employers and the preventive services cooperate systematically to examine sick workers and offer their adapted work, insofar as they are able to work, of course. That is a good thing for the patient, because he or she is addressed to what he or she can do. They also offer tailor-made work. The emphasis is on guidance, precisely to protect the weakest from the inactivity trap. The aim is to avoid what is called the fade-out, whereby the employee disappears from the stage little by little and does not return to the field of work, even though he or she is still well-suited to work from a medical point of view. Workers receive benefits which are lower than what they would earn should they return to work. Two weeks ago, I submitted a proposal to the nuclear cabinet concerning a framework for responding to the parties concerned in the event of a refusal to cooperate in drawing up a reintegration path, where I do insist on re-integration. This concerns both the workers, but also the response of employers and, therefore, of prescribers. We also expect the employer to make as much efforts as possible to enable the employee to resume the work. This is about the ability to do lighter work, to do part-time work, but also to adapt working conditions so that certain tasks are possible without causing physical problems. The employee and the employer must also continue to participate in the reintegration process. Any person who wishes to withdraw from it may be sanctioned. Everyone does what they have to do in there. People who are not eligible, as has been said, are left alone. One can only respond if one can be responsible to some extent. The same applies to employers. If someone gets a serious illness, if someone falls psychologically, it's not always due to circumstances that the employer has to deal with. In this case, there can be no response from the employer. It is then an event in the employee's life that cannot be linked to the working conditions or to the pressure placed on the employee. The first stage is the evaluation of the remaining possibility to work. It's done by the counseling physician. If the person in question is judged to be too ill, there is no remaining capacity and we leave that person alone. It is the first time that there will be a decision on a medical basis on whether there is any possibility of reintegration. The necessity is known. We know that in recent years there has been a huge increase in the number of long-term sick, on average 7% per year. That can't always be medically explained or statistically. This means, for example, that there are also very young people present. We must certainly continue to work on the possibility of tailor-made work for these people. There are plenty of examples of how this is possible: another job, a lighter job, a part-time job. This could promote reintegration. This includes a temporary adjustment of the work to be carried out. Now there is also a sanction. It's been forgotten before. It concerns the penalty, in accordance with Article 101 (2) of the Law of 14 July 1994, which provides for a penalty of 100%. This means that the worker loses his entire benefit if he withdraws from the control if he does not fulfil the conditions for the recognition of incapacity for work. We want to reduce the sanction if there is a willingness to join the reintegration project. We want to apply lower rates of sanctions. So we do not want to go directly to 100 % but to lower percentages: 10, 15, 20. That remains to be discussed. It is a good thing that we are taking the time for this. I also heard Mr Spoorten's proposal in the press last Friday. That is an element that will be put on the table of the government. I assume his government representatives will take his proposal to the discussions there. I insist that when it comes to accountability, there should be a three-part agreement. There must be a response of the workers, only of those who still have a remaining capacity. There must also be accountability of employers, only where they also have a responsibility. Then there must also be rehabilitation of doctors, who are outliers when it comes to prescribing the behaviour of long-term incapacity for work without a medical reason. I repeat, there is no budgetary aspect in itself. I do not know why there is such a taboo in this country. This is something that has been happening in the neighbouring countries for years. For ideological reasons which still exist here, we have missed the train for years. Look at the Netherlands. Look at Norway. Look at Sweden. Look at many other countries. I therefore believe that there is no reason why we should not bother in our country to return to a job for people who can still do customised work after illness after long absence. There is only one country that is apparently opposed to it for ideological reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u110	Madam Secretary, I do not think you are asking the right questions. If there is an increase of 7% in the number of people, then you have to ask yourself why. Why? That is the question! And if you ask yourself why, you have to make a correlation. What has happened in recent years that explains that more people use it? It is obviously the end-of-care measures that are cut today. It's obvious!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u111	The end-of-career measures, I would like to say, when they concern people 55 or 60 years of age but not 20 years of age. Some have not even started working yet or only a few months and they already do...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u112	But you know that's not the majority. You know very well that your government has cut off all forms of end-of-care planning for people who are tired psychologically, physically and that this is the main reason for the increase. Now you're working on getting this exit door cut off and I think you're doing it wrong. I asked the question in December as to whether there would be sanctions and I was told: "No, no, there will be no sanctions. We'll see a little bit, etc." Now, it's clear, there will be sanctions. I hear the N-VA's proposal to go a little further. Finally, I wonder what we want with such a measure. Do we really want to reintegrate people by means of sanctions? I don't think so. I don't think if we scare them, we're going to get people back into this situation. That seems very clear to me. The results will be catastrophic for the people themselves, because those who are voluntary do not need sanctions. The aim here is clearly to help people who do not want to return to their homes to do so with sanctions. This is obviously not going to work! Any doctor will tell you! I therefore doubt that the aim is really a more quantitative reintroduction of workers into the labour market. I have the impression that there is rather an ideological option on the part of the government and I would have liked a little more pragmatism and humanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u113	Mr President, this is actually the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u114	It's odd that she wasn't added.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u115	My question had already been drafted before a number of articles were published in the press. I fully agree with what I have heard from the Minister. There are ideological differences here. If it makes no difference or very little difference whether or not to work, there is indeed no incentive. It has never been the intention of the minister or the government to deal with people who really cannot work. It is always about an objective finding that there is still a residual capacity and therefore a possibility of reintegration. It is about people for whom the necessary guidance is provided and who are offered a suitable job. If these three conditions are met and someone does not want to cooperate, then I believe that the figures will increase if there is no difference between working and not working. If you look at the figures from 20 years ago, you can see that at that time you were working longer than you are now. The comments on the end-of-life measures, most of which did not even have an effect when the figures started to rise, are therefore not correct. Don't tell me that the workers could work longer 20 years ago, because the physical conditions were much heavier then than they are now. I believe that it is also a matter of mentality change. If there is no difference between working and not working, such a situation is created. One can pass that on to social security, but then one must take money away from those who do, and you do not want that, Mr Hedebouw? I therefore have nothing to add to the Minister's reply. I believe that last week in the press it has been made clear that accountability must be linked to impact. This also applies to employers. I hope that the measures can be finalised in the government in the next few weeks. I believe that a number of good measures, including the reintegration plan, require some underpinning with a general approach to accountability in order to have any effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u116	Mr Spooren, it is in line with the previous discussion on accountability. To what extent the response should be done. The government agrees that it has to be done. It's just about the modalities... that it has to be done has been decided in the successive budgets, but also in the government statement. I made a new proposal a few weeks ago because we are linking back to the social partners. The point is still on the table. Your possible compromise proposal comes between them; that will have to be discussed again. I have put forward a proposal for the employer's response to the extent that they can be responsible. This presupposes that the employer takes the necessary measures and gives the necessary instructions in sufficient time to enable the disabled worker to carry out appropriate work. They will be expected to take concrete action under these commitments. Once the agreement has been knocked off on the government table, we will refer it back to the social partners. I await the outcome of the discussions of the nuclear cabinet and will also see your proposal come to one of the next meetings of the nuclear cabinet. I think it is indeed important to weigh up all aspects of what is on the table, what impact this has on the ground and what needs to be done. It's a good thing we're spending time on that. I'll repeat it again. Why should we be the only country where there would be nothing to do for workers who still have the remaining capacity to work and who could return to work with more tailor-made work or with more guidance? That is actually a very strange fact, which escapes me, especially because we also know through a survey of the Flemish Patient Platform that 80% of the long-term ill people with chronic diseases want to get back to work and work tailor-made. I therefore believe that the measures would be a good thing for them. In addition, it is possible to retain the expertise of workers who have been away and who can then come back, which would be a good thing for employers. Now they disappear from the stage and cannot return or share all their expertise. Furthermore, I believe that we must be honest in this: we must make doctors sick that they also have a social function and that it entails high social costs, if they prescribe very long periods of work without a medical basis. We need to address these three aspects and try to avoid that workers who are faced with some kind of long-term illness are being dismissed from our society, from our working environment. They are then for the rest of their lives, and for some people this depends for a very long time only on a benefit. This is, of course, another approach to a problem which has been over ten years old and which has never been addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u117	Mr President, Madam Minister, just before the Carnival leave, we learned from the press that, according to a report to the Social Security Management Committee, the withdrawal of the social security budget would amount to almost four billion euros in 2016 and about eight hundred million for this year. This would be due in particular to the overestimation of tax revenues. In the context of your bill, which will soon be passed and which provides for a conditional balance, I find it interesting to ask you a few questions. Minister, do you confirm these figures? Could you give us details of the revenues that have been misassessed? When will the monitoring committee give an opinion for a readjustment? With respect to accountability factors, what measures do you intend to take? I hope, of course, that you will not decide on reductions in benefits. Can you assure us that the allocation will be used to restore the balance of the social security budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u118	Mr Daerden, on 9 March, the Monitoring Committee will present its report on all social security schemes and that of the Federal State. Some of the data contained in the report of the Social Security Management Committee are cash or cash data and are budget neutral. A clearer and more precise view therefore depends on the report of the Monitoring Committee. The balance allocation for 2017 will be adjusted - I say it and I repeat it! - at the end of budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u119	Madam Minister, I thank you for these few points of answer, although I am tempted to say that this does not shed much light on me. However, I am sure that we will have more elements in the coming days. You talked about balance staffing. I don't quite understand what you mean when you talk about adjustment at the end of the check. But in a few days we will have the answers. I am counting on you to ensure that there is no reduction in social benefits in the context of this budgetary adjustment. I also hope that the government will address these variances in estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-07-54-commissie-ic610x.u120	We will have an opportunity to discuss this issue next Thursday, hoping that the Monitoring Committee will have tabled its report that day, which will feed into the debate.
