ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u1	Minister, since the beginning of the legislature, I have repeatedly drawn your attention to the ability of police shooting stands to guarantee the standards required in terms of law enforcement training within the framework of the GPI 48. At the beginning of September, the justice system decided – and rightly so – to focus on the continuation of violence by police officers, after doing the same with regard to violence against them. The issue of the infrastructure and training needed to enable our police officers to meet expectations for violence control is thus on the agenda. Minister, do the infrastructure now allow every policeman to carry out at least the planned annual training shot? If not, how many police officers are not in order? What measures are being taken to remedy the situation? At what cost? With regard to training (non-baremic continuing training) in violence control, what is the current situation? What is the rate of police officers in order compared to these ongoing trainings? How many trainings have been provided and how many police officers have been trained? The March 2006 circular also provides for management quotas. Are these affected? If not, what plan is in place to achieve these quotas? With what budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u2	Ms.Ben Hamou, the Federal Police does not have sufficient capacity within its own infrastructure to meet the requirements for fire training, in accordance with the provisions of the GPI 48. However, the use of defence shooting rooms, police zones or public institutions, or even marginally from the private sector, helps to resolve the capacity deficit. From a long-term perspective, the Federal Police Masterplan foresees an increase in the number of shooting stands within the federal police infrastructure. The number of police officers who are not in order can only be obtained from the personnel department of each of the 189 units. However, the Federal Police has developed a computer encoding system in the application called GAloP (Administrative Management of Logistics and Personnel), which promotes better monitoring of this number. This tool is accessible to all members of the integrated police force. The Commissioner General has made its use binding on the federal police. On the other hand, police areas are free to use it. Moreover, since encoding only started in the first half of this year, we cannot currently extract encrypted data. However, these can be obtained from the HRM entities of each unit. Each police officer first receives basic training in the form of a module to learn about violence control through a comprehensive program that incorporates the pillars of the IPF 48 and 48bis. The GPI 48bis is an extension of Circular GPI 48 which provides for AMOK situations. Members of the operational framework are then required, in accordance with IPM 48, to attend at least five sessions in each twelve-month period. Those who do not carry out operational activities are held at one session per year, with a certificate evaluation if they are still in possession of their service weapon. Members of the so-called "qualified level" operational framework, as well as violence-control monitors, have a specific need for specific restraint techniques or weapons. These needs are covered by functional training and retraining. These trainings and retrainings are compulsory in order to retain the patents granted. In all these areas, too, the organization and follow-up of training and training is maintained by the relevant human resources units for each federal unit and police area. They have the possibility to encode the services via the GAloP software and to remove the numbers from it to check that their staff members are in good standing. It should be added that monitors are exempted from training if they have given the subject matter themselves during the reference period. However, they must follow the trainings of the modules they do not provide as monitors. For example, an exclusively self-defence instructor will have to follow his shooting training (base level). The supervisory standards set out in GPI Circular 48 of 2006 do not indicate an overall quota but the number of specialists required depending on the type of training or training that police officers follow. Management standards may be difficult to achieve in some units, but they must be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u3	Thank you, Minister. As I understand it, not all police officers are properly trained because there is a lack of infrastructure. We must therefore call on the private sector. What is the cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u4	Don't make me say what I didn't say! The infrastructure of the federal police is not enough to guarantee training so we use the infrastructure of the local police and defence areas. In some specific cases, we call on the private sector, but training is guaranteed. I do not know the cost of these trainings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u5	So I will write another written question. As for the number of police officers in good standing, you didn't give me an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u6	In the first half of this year, we started the GAloP system to record the data but it is not yet enough to give you information. If you come back in a few months with the same question, I can give you the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u7	What is interesting is that we have a shooting booth located on Rue Royale but that is closed due to non-compliance with certain standards. I ask you to make sure that this shooting stand can open very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Willy Demeyer's 20375 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you, a few months ago, about the incidents reported in Belgium potentially targeting individuals and schools or organisations linked to the Fethullah Gülen movement, which the Turkish authorities have considered terrorist movement since the failed coup d'état. The main facts identified are threats and intimidations published on social networks, including the publication of addresses and identities of potential sympathizers Gülen, sometimes accompanied by calls to take action against them, as you also mentioned. The intimidating language and the personal character of many of these messages can be perceived as threatening in the person concerned. Indeed, this could result in individuals or groups with more radical profiles exploiting this tense situation in order to move on to harder actions. Minister, what measures have been taken in consultation with the mayors and local police to ensure the safety of the Gülen schools and the families concerned? More than half of the students have dropped out of some of these schools. What is their situation today? On 1 June last, a new threat analysis for the Gülen movement, which was then at level 2, was carried out by the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM), which set it at level 3. Can you tell us more about the reasons and consequences of this worsening threat level? Finally, what measures are being taken to detect and monitor threats on social networks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u10	Mr Blanchart, on June 1, 2017, OCAM had maintained Level 2 for the threat to the Gülen movement, but had set Level 3 for the specific Fedactio meeting at the Crowne Plaza Hotel in Saint-Josse. Fedactio is a Turkish coordinating body linked to the Gülen movement. This level 3 had been set on the basis of the general threat to easy targets or soft targets, among which may include some assemblies in large hotels. Subsequently, on August 28, 2017, OCAM updated the threat assessment for Lucerna schools at the beginning of the new school year. The level of threat remained at 2. Despite the polarising and stigmatizing messages propagated by social media, often fed by Turkish media channels, OCAM was not aware of any specific threats against schools linked to the Gülen movement. With the exception of a stabbing incident in a family circle, in which a Fedactio representative was injured by a family member with sympathy for Erdogan, OCAM has no longer received messages about any physical incidents since the previous threat assessment. It remains difficult to assess the extent to which an opinion, reaction or message posted on social media will actually lead to a willingness to actually act. Of course, the intimidating language and personal character of many of these messages can be perceived as very threatening by the people involved. There is currently no indication of new incidents. Gülen is in fact stigmatised by AKP supporters on social networks, but to date no causal link has been established with concrete actions. I must add that if you get used to a level 3 of the threat, level 2 is not the normal level. Specific measures are therefore taken at Level 2. They do not involve military personnel or a large number of weapons, but they are specific at this level. This is sometimes forgotten in the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u11	Minister, far from me the idea of trivializing level 2 of the threat. Thank you for your clarification. I believe that we must remain vigilant, because this public is being persecuted not only in Turkey, but also in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Brecht Vermeulen's 20444 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u13	Mrs. Fonck is not present, but there is a fellow party member of her. As required by the Rules of Procedure in a topical debate, a party who has not applied for a question may still be in agreement with the question or with the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u14	Minister, this summer we made the request to discuss the evolution of the civil protection reform agenda. Last April, you announced a 30 per cent reduction in staff and the closure of four of the six barracks. In this context, only those of Brasschaat and Crisnea would remain open, while those of Ghlin, Liedekerke, Jabbeke and Libramont would have to close. In July, we learned through the press that the Brussels government was going to activate a conflict-of-interest procedure against this project. Indeed, the Brussels-Capital Region feels objectively damaged, since the nearest barracks will become the one in Brasschaat, located about an hour away - instead of the one in Liedekerke, which is much closer. In addition, the Brussels Secretary of State, Cécile Jodogne, said that you had refused any consultation with your Brussels counterparts. In the meantime, we have been able to interact with you or your firm. My group had asked for a meeting to be held in August. You said that you were going to meet Mrs. Jodogne's office. Last month, the press reported that several meetings had taken place and that, in the end, the Brussels Region would not introduce - unless there was a new turnaround - proceedings into a conflict of interest. This chain of events on such a fundamental issue, which has raised serious reservations on our part - since our conception of civil protection reform does not consist in trying to close so many sites and reduce the number of staff - leads me to ask you several questions. First, what answers have you provided to the Brussels government's request for consultation? You wouldn't have answered some of his letters. You'll have noticed my job as a conditional. That is why I would like to obtain clarity as to your willingness to engage in dialogue with the Brussels-Capital Region. You know that we are committed to an adult and constructive debate between the Regions so that federalism works - even if it is now both good and bad. Secondly, what are the conclusions of the consultation meetings you had with the Brussels government on these issues? Have specific solutions been identified for Brussels and the Brussels Region in particular, particularly in terms of maintaining a certain capacity? It is not necessary to recall all the security threats to the country, in particular to the Region, and it is known that clean infrastructure is needed there. So what are the conclusions of your meetings? Finally, what is the action plan for the coming weeks and months concerning the implementation of the reform in general and the results of your discussions with the Brussels Region and with the trade unions? I believe that this is an opportunity to take stock of this topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u15	Mr President, I would like to make a point at the outset. Since we are in a topical debate, I would like to raise the concerns that arose from my colleague Catherine Fonck's question. I will start with the Brussels situation and I will continue with the Hainaut situation, if I may. Minister, in April 2017, the government decided to remove the civil protection barracks in Libramont, Ghlin, Jabbeke and Liedekerke - my colleague has just referred to them - and to maintain those in Brasschaat and Crisnea. As far as the Brussels Region is concerned, the consequence is that it depends on the Brasschaat region, which is located at two hours away in terms of the time taken to transport and the deployment of specialized equipment to the capital. During the exchange of views on 19 April, my colleague, Catherine Fonck, had already highlighted the negative impact of the reform in terms of organisation, the security of the population and the rights of all staff. This did not prevent the Council of Ministers from adopting royal decrees in July to implement this reform, which is expected to be completed by January 2019. In September, following a consultation meeting, the Brussels government and the federal government agreed to set up this working group, the task force responsible for analysing the consequences and impacts of the reform on Brussels. There is no need to stress that our group believes that the capital of our country and of Europe, together with all its institutions and its people, deserves to be properly protected and that we are concerned about the effectiveness of the deadlines for intervention in the field of civil security, which we believe is obvious. Has this working group with Brussels been set up? What is its composition and agenda? What is the current situation? Is the reform suspended pending the conclusions of this working group? In concrete terms, what would be the consequences today in the event of a proven incident and, in this case, what barracks would be involved at the level of the Brussels Region? What would be the response plan? What is the status of trade union negotiations on this subject? What about retaining workers? The trade unions and presidents of the zones sent a letter to the government last August expressing their concern, in particular about the level of preparation of the areas, their privatization and the impact on the security of the population. Minister, have you read this open letter from the unions and presidents of the zones? Are studies conducted to assess and analyse whether and to what extent the different relief areas are in a position to properly carry out their new missions? Are you aware of the contacts made by the Hainaut rescue areas with private operators? What are these operators? What is the purpose of these contacts? What missions could be carried out by these private operators? What guarantees are in place to ensure the sustainability of service to the citizen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u16	Mr President, as many things have already been said, I shall confine myself to my questions. Minister, has there been any consultation with the Brussels Region? What came out of it? While the Brussels Region has been concerned about the disappearance of the Liedekerke barracks, the Walloon Region should also be concerned about those in Ghlin and Luxembourg. The barracks at Crisnee are still not close to Arlon. On the other hand, as regards the fate of civil protection personnel, what measures are actually taken? When will the barracks planned for abolition be closed? According to what procedures and status will the personnel be able to be taken over by the relief zones? Depending on what distribution? How will this recovery be financed? What will happen to emergency preparedness equipment? You have tabled an amendment to the bill establishing the Directorate of Security (DAB) to allow civil protection personnel to be included in this scheme. What exactly is the situation? What about social dialogues in a broader way?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u17	Is there a group which has not yet spoken and which still wishes to intervene? No one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u18	Colleagues, I think I've already answered many of your questions, but repetitio mater studiorum. Mrs Fonck's first question was very well put by Mr Dallemagne. Ms. Fonck referred to an open letter to the Government dated 22 August, which would come from trade unions and presidents of relief zones. I did indeed receive an open letter dated 22 August 2017. Nevertheless, this letter came from only one union. The presidents of the relief zones were not associated. I responded to this union on September 18, 2017. Mr Vanden Burre, I have never refused to respond to the Brussels government's requests for consultation. Civil protection reform and the possible consequences of the closure of the Liedekerke operational unit were on the agenda of the Consultation Committee on 6 September 2017. The Brussels Region has invited us to consult. My office replied, but the father of the person who received this e-mail was ill. There was no response. The offices of Mr Vervoort and Mrs Jodogne confirmed that we had responded. We have never shown bad will. We have always wanted to participate in this dialogue. The Consultation Committee of 6 September 2017 took note of the concerns expressed by the Brussels-Capital Region, which considers that the reorganization of civil protection would have a negative impact on the safety of the Brussels population. The Committee decided to set up a task force to study the possible impact for the Brussels-Capital Region and to provide, where appropriate, for a phase in order to properly address these consequences, having regard to the new organisation of civil protection, on the one hand, and the safety of the inhabitants of the Brussels-Capital Region, on the other hand, before the end of the year. We've also planned a timing. Mr Thiébaut, a first consultation took place on 25 August. It concerns only Brussels and is not intended to integrate the other federated entities. Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Dallemagne, following the decision of the Consultation Committee of 6 September 2017, the first meeting of the Task Force on the Brussels-Capital Region will take place today. However, my administration sent an invitation to the various entities concerned to hold a first meeting on 28 September 2017, but that date was not suitable for SIAMU or Jodogne. The following are invited to the meeting today: the Directorate-General for Civil Security, the Crisis Centre, the senior official of the Brussels-Capital administrative district, the SIAMU and the two relevant cabinets. At the end of this first meeting, a planning and action plan will be drawn up with a view to achieving adequate responses by the end of the year. Mr Dallemagne, in response to your second question, the reform is not suspended pending the conclusions of this working group. It is intended to make it possible to make progress in the matter in collaboration with the organisations involved in civil security in Brussels. Mr Vanden Burre, I come to your third question. In November, I intend to start negotiations with trade union organisations on certain pieces of legislation that form the backbone of the new civil protection organisation. Mr Dallemagne, the Liedekerke unit is still competent to intervene in Brussels until its closure on 1 January 2019. In the future, the units of Brasschaat and Crisnea will be competent to intervene in Brussels. If, as an adventure, the imminent nature of an attack were to be proved in the context of the threat analysis, the means of one or both units could be pre-positioned in Brussels. In addition, I repeat that for emergencies, it is the competent fire department that must intervene on the front line. That's true for all the barracks and not just Liedekerke's. We have this task force. The tasks currently carried out by civil protection must now be transferred to the relief zones. We will first transfer them and check if the skills are present and if there are personnel and equipment before closing the civil protection barracks. It makes quite sense. The follow-up relates to questions from Ms. Fonck and Mr. Thiébaut. Relief zones must carry out a number of legal tasks. Each relief zone shall, on the basis of a risk analysis and on the basis of the rate of service it establishes, draw up a multiannual policy programme, an operational organizational framework and a staff plan. Some relief areas still lack structurally or on an ad hoc basis operational personnel. Good human resources management must address the challenges of ad hoc understaffing. The Royal Decree, which changes the distribution of missions between relief zones, was signed by the King on 20 September 2017 and published in the Monitor on 9 October 2017. It shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. These are mainly reformulations and minor changes. Civil protection tasks, such as advice on hazardous substances, will return. The biggest difference is that civil protection is no longer involved in the missions to be carried out by the relief zones. The Royal Decree determining the establishment of the two operational units of civil protection was signed by the King on 8 October 2017 and appeared in the Monitor on 16 October 2017. It shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. The closing date for all four units is 31 December 2018. To be sure that the security of citizens will not be compromised, task forces have been formed in each unit. For those who perform front-line tasks, task forces also focus on the transfer of these tasks. The reform of civil protection makes it possible to clearly define the missions of the relief and civil protection zones. This will ensure that civil protection does not assume clearly assigned tasks to the relief areas. This practice of using federal resources instead of local resources, being limited to certain areas, was discriminating against relief areas that did not benefit from it. All other provisions still need to be negotiated with trade unions and approved by the Council of Ministers. Several information meetings between my administration and my firm have already been held with the trade union organizations. Various legal texts were presented on that occasion. The trade unions were then given the opportunity to make their comments, which have, as far as possible, been incorporated into new versions of these texts. In broad terms, the proposal is as follows. Staff currently on duty will be able to apply to remain an operational member of civil protection, benefiting from a significantly more advantageous new status, since it will be widely copied to that of firefighters. For the civil protection officers who will be transferred to the relief zones, I plan to provide degressive financial resources so that the relief zones can take them back. Emergency zones will therefore have the opportunity to launch a call for nominations for operational members of civil protection. There is no allocation or quota since the relief areas will be entirely free to use or not to use this mobility mechanism, which will be the subject of financial incentives for the areas. Current regulations and significant federal budgetary allocations allow each relief zone to carry out its current and future legal tasks. However, relief zones may also intervene outside of these legal missions, for example for the non-emergency destruction of wasps nests. In these cases alone, private services will also be able to intervene. These private services have been in existence for a long time. In fact, there is only a privatisation of certain tasks traditionally carried out by the relief services but which do not belong to their legal tasks. Increasing the number of actors in these areas can only be of benefit to citizens. A bill for the creation of the new Directorate of Security (DAB) within the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police of the Federal Police is being processed in the Chamber. It is on the agenda of tomorrow's plenary session. Provision is made for the voluntary transfer of staff on active duty from the Directorate-General for Civil Security of the Federal Internal Public Service, with the rank of operational brigadier or operational collaborator, to police security officers. A negotiation with the union partners took place on 26 September 2017 and resulted in a unanimous memorandum of understanding. A draft royal decree organizing the transfer of certain members of the staff of the Directorate-General for Civil Security of the Federal Internal Public Service to the framework of police security officers of the Federal Police is being finalized with my departments. The negotiation procedure for this draft royal decree will be initiated in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u19	Minister, thank you for these answers. First of all, I take note of the fact that you have never refused to discuss with the Brussels Region. Good! We can therefore question all these threats and statements in the press coming from both sides. It remains a mystery to me. Shoot the alarm bell, as it was set in July on the basis of a lack of opening of discussions on your part, while you tell me you have always responded, either! I take note of this, but I hope that dialogue and cooperation can indeed continue, because such ways of doing business do not seem to me at all effective and at all in relation to the importance of the subject, whether it is civil protection for Belgium as a whole or for Brussels in particular, since we are again aware of the level of threat and the sense of security around the Brussels Region, which are among the main concerns of our citizens. I take note of the establishment of a task force with the various agencies and crisis centres concerned, etc. But why not put such a task force in place before deciding on the reform and passing the royal decrees? I feel like we're going backwards. One wonders if this will not cause problems, while, according to the results of this task force, potential changes will be made by the end of the year. However, the royal decree has already been passed, the barracks will close on 1 January next. I feel like we're working backwards, maybe even...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u20	January 1, 2019!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u21	Yes, January 1, 2019! The remark remains relevant. Why not organize such task forces and working groups before making decisions and passing royal orders? Unless I am mistaken, you have said that if the threat is very serious in Brussels, you have been careful to accumulate equipment and resources in Brussels. Could I have more details? Through which entity or through what types of mechanisms?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u22	This is a crisis management (CP-OBS advanced) as would be done in Liège, Ostend or Charleroi.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u23	This is therefore not a measure that would compensate for the closure of the Liedekerke unit. This is a normal procedure, because I saw it as a new element. In any case, today nothing is done to compensate! We will see the results of the task force. With regard to the other closures, particularly that of Ghlin, you were, before the summer in the Committee on the Interior, in favour, I believe, of maintaining some of the infrastructure or personnel on the spot. I guess it's not on the agenda anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u24	For Ghlin, six or nine people are planned for SHAPE-related tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u25	Okay! That was my question! Here you go for Ghlin! Last point. I have a number of press articles in front of me, according to which emergency areas feel compelled to call on private guard officers to carry out certain tasks. You see the intervention of different actors as positive. You know our opinion in this regard. We believe that this type of regal task should not be transferred to the private sector. My question is about the legislative framework under which these private agents will exercise. Is this the same framework as the law we passed? I guess not! Under what legislative framework will these cooperations of new private actors take place in the relief areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u26	It is a contract between a client (civil protection) and a service provider. We have not expanded this possibility. It's been in existence for a long time. It is clear that what I call "hot" tasks are never left to the private sector. This is more a matter of ordinary operations for which the civil protection units themselves decide whether or not to launch a market. There is no policy change in this area aimed at transferring tasks to the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u27	I take note that there will be no change in legislation in this area. We see, through returns that we have land on different relief areas, that there is an increasing reliance on private guarding agencies. For us, this factor remains worrying even if it is not "hot" tasks as you call them, but a regal prerogative that is intensifying towards the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. You say you've always sought dialogue. However, a conflict-of-interest procedure was necessary to establish a conflict-of-interest procedure. The Brussels Region clearly had to worry. You have advanced and continue to do so. You say that nothing is suspended, that the reform is going to take place. Dialogue is not under optimal conditions. It would have been preferable for you to announce your readiness to change your reform. This is obviously not the case. I just did a Google search. Between Liedekerke and Brasschaat – home – we know the difficulties of the Antwerp ring at peak times. It would be surprising if they were resolved by 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u30	Can you imagine what can happen in rush hour? The last terrorist attack took place at 8 a.m. So we have to think twice about it. The bruxellois are right to sound the alarm bell. This must be taken into account. I will not go back to the need for effective civil protection for the capital. You're saying the emergency functions are going to be transferred to the emergency areas. But at the same time, you say that material will be prepositioned as soon as we know the imminentness of a disaster. In the event of a proven disaster, there is a greater need for this emergency equipment. A priori, the concerns of the Brussels people are confirmed. You tell us that the emergency areas have the means to operate. I hear the emergency areas shouting for help! They tell us that they are concerned, that they do not have the means to function within the framework of their legal missions and that they deserve additional resources. Minister, I think we need to hear them. It should not be said a little lightly that they have the means. It has long been known that civil protection is experiencing difficulties in obtaining resources to match its missions. It is important to be extremely attentive. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. As far as privatization is concerned, historically there have been tasks that have actually been privatized. I would say that today we should formalize this. It must be taken into account and considered that there are some missions that are automatically private whereas it was optional before. On this point, attention will have to be paid to the fact that the privatization door has not been fingered or kicked in for missions that will be increasingly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u31	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. I will not fail to come back to you with a lot of questions since I am part of the task force for the Ghlin barracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u32	Is there another group that has not yet spoken and wishes to join? [[No.]] In that case, the topical and urgent debate has ended and we shall continue with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament A written question, like Question No 20566 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, is converted into a written question. 20572 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke. Debates of the European Parliament 20581 by Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois will be answered by the Minister for Mobility. Mr Georges Gilkinet is not yet here. We shall see if he comes to the committee for his question. 20600.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u34	Minister, the officers who have to collect emergency calls 101 at the various Information and Communication Centres (ICCs) across the country regularly demonstrate to report the shortage of staff. After Mons and Brussels, Namur's operators mobilized to demand reinforcements and deplore the impossibility of responding to all emergency calls. Last February, as I asked you about the lack of operators 101 at the CIC in Mons, you replied that "you were making a catch-up operation in order to overcome the shortage of staff as quickly and as quickly as possible". Today, we must recognize that we are far from it. At the national level, according to trade union representatives, there are currently only 267 full-time equivalents in Belgium on an organic table of 361, which corresponds to a 25% staff deficit. May I tell you, Minister, that the situation is alarming. With such a large staff shortage and too long response times, the safety of those in need of rapid care is at risk. Minister, are investments planned in the various 101 centres across the country? If so, by what order? What additional recruitment proposals are you making? What centres are targeted and when are reinforcements expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u35	Mr Thiébaut, I am aware of the situation regarding the training of personnel in the various relief centres. I'll provide you with a table that gives by center 101 an overview of the theoretical and operational framework for the month of September 2017. The difference between the operational framework and the actual framework results from absences for illness, birth, part-time work, leave without pay, etc. You see the numbers. Indeed, the framework provides for 361 people. You have a distribution between the different centres. The operational framework is only 256 people. In order to deal with this problem, I am pursuing a two-pronged policy. On the one hand, in order to reduce the workload of staff, I am taking the necessary steps to recruit additional staff. On the other hand, I am developing the technology that will make it possible to better distribute the work or simplify the actions. In this way, I have made provision in the budget for the immediate recruitment of 42 full-time equivalents for the 101. These call takes begin their training on January 3, 2018. This training will take about four months. On 1 April 2018, they will be distributed in the various centres as follows: eight in Brussels, eleven in Liège, one in Hainaut, five in Namur, two in Luxembourg, one in West Flanders, three in East Flanders, four in Antwerp, five in Flemish Brabant and two in Limburg. There is no center 101 in Walloon Brabant. In addition, I am currently developing a bridge between the civil protection officers and the call-takers of the emergency call centres. Seven candidates have already shown interest in this, but this will increase further in the coming months. The introduction of the 112 application will reduce the workload by allowing a faster location with a reduction in the number of questions the operator needs to ask, as well as the integration of a chat function that works faster than the SMS feature, where the full message must first be written before it can be sent. The introduction of number 1722, activated in the event of a storm, makes it possible to distinguish between urgent and non-urgent appeals and to deal with urgent appeals as a matter of priority. In the long run, these calls will be diverted to dispatching the emergency areas so that the emergency call centres will devote themselves exclusively to their main mission. Finally, in the longer term, I plan to introduce a supra-provincial structure that will facilitate a better distribution of work among all emergency call centres, so that the workload is more balanced during peak calls, while reducing the rate of absenteeism. In addition, this structure will provide a solution to the language problems we have long known.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u36	Minister, thank you. I note that you are proposing that civil protection personnel take this direction and that you want to open all doors to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u37	What do I want to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u38	Open all doors: DAB, CIC, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u39	Yes, we want to offer agents a whole range of possibilities, so that they make the most appropriate choice possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u40	What about the desired timing on Namur's side?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u41	We anticipate the date of April 1, 2018, after a training course that will take place for three months from January 1st.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u42	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u43	Minister, according to a communication issued in early September, the Direction général de la police nationale française (DGPN) has unveiled a recent jihadist propaganda that advocates new types of means of terrorist action. In addition to the use of ram vehicles or the targeting of uniformed security forces, jihadists have recently advocated train derailment, road sabotage, forest fires or food poisoning. These actions would now be the work of lone wolves rather than military actions such as Belgium in Zaventem and the Maelbeek metro. Minister, we are still at level 3 of the terrorist threat. The police are on the verge of war, assisted by the military deployed on our territory. A recent poll has shown how popular these soldiers in the field are. But what reaction is there to such threats? Minister, do you have any information consistent with those issued by the French FNHB? Is there effective coordination between the various European partners in the face of these new threats? Without creating paranoia for the population, can it be associated with increased vigilance? I am thinking eventually of the railway maintenance services that would be made aware of these new risks. Have decisions already been made in collaboration with your mobility colleague? The State of Israel has integrated the terrorist threat into its territory for several decades. What lessons could Belgium learn from this experience?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u44	Mr Flahaux, in issue 17 of his magazine Inspire, Al-Qaeda recommends attacking the means of transport on the road, on the rail, in the air, targeting both vehicles as well as lines, roads, airports and stations. This issue focuses more specifically on railways. Both the Islamic State and Al-Qaeda regularly advocate new targets or means of action. OCAM and its partner services are in contact with their European counterparts. Initiatives to secure rail transport, as well as other economic sectors, are being taken by the Commission. OCAM and its partner departments conduct a comprehensive threat assessment on a monthly basis, which incorporates, if necessary, the various propaganda elements disseminated by the Islamic State, Al-Qaeda and other terrorist or extremist groups. Where appropriate, messages to the sectors concerned shall be disseminated and meetings may be organised. Within the framework of level 3 of the general threat established by the OCAM for Belgium as a whole, public places are considered soft targets and are therefore potential targets taken seriously by the authorities. All the targets you mentioned are already included in our evaluation and have been defined as soft targets since November 2015. Nothing new. Nile nove sub sole. As far as potential targets are concerned, local police chiefs are asked to carry out a risk analysis on the basis of which they organize their security arrangements, taking into account the different modus operandi and the unpredictability of the threat. The Crisis Centre has suggested various measures that can be taken by the head of the body. It goes without saying that we ask the public and anyone who performs a sensitive or responsible function to be very vigilant. This level of vigilance has been increased after the horrific events of recent years. Whenever necessary, we will continue to conduct targeted campaigns, but we must avoid falling into an atmosphere of permanent terrorist anxiety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u45	Minister, your answer is right. We will see in the coming weeks and months. I hope that I will not have to ask you any questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u46	Minister, following the weather of 12 September and the opinion issued by the Royal Meteorological Institute, the Interior FPS had decided to activate the number 1722, the number planned for less urgent calls to rescue services, such as flooded cellars. Minister, what can the Internal FPS do with this activation? Has communication with citizens worked according to your expectations? Should damage be deplored during this weather? What are the possible improvements to this new system that should be made to make it more effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u47	Mr Flahaux, the record is positive but requires some caution in his interpretation. The weather was indeed less intense than initially announced and a representative record of the operation of number 1722 can only be drawn after a storm or storm that has generated a significant number of calls to number 1722. During the activation on 12 September, emergency power stations 112 and 100 received only 300 calls across the country. This is very little in view of the peaks of calls generated by other episodes of weather. Technically, the system operated as planned, both for internal communication procedures, including to centres 101, emergency areas and governors' services, and for the processing of calls. The media quickly and massively relayed information about the 1722 activation on their websites in order to inform the public. I must thank them for this initiative. However, we found that during the weather, a few people called 112 or even 101, while their request was a direct call to 1722. To make the citizen aware will therefore take a little more time. The calls in 1722 are actually handled within the various call centres 112 and 100 in the country, and by the same operator. However, 1722 calls arrive on very separate calling lines from 112 lines. Our operators can easily point out that this is a 1722 call or a 112 call. This technical distinction is crucial and enables emergency lines 112 to be selected as a matter of priority. This therefore meets the objective of reducing the congestion of the 100 and 112 calling lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u48	Thank you for your answer, Minister. She doesn't call for a reply from me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u49	Mr Minister, at the Committee on the Interior on 13 September, I was concerned about the ability of relief services to mobilize in the event of major disasters. Although your answer was very specific, I would have liked to have some clarification as to how many firefighters could be mobilised, how many members of the civil defence force could possibly be mobilised in the event of a major disaster, whether it be during forest fires or any other major disaster, such as a Seveso business disaster, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u50	Mr Flahaux, the administrative status of the operational personnel of the relief zones provides that in the event of a large-scale intervention – an intervention due to an unpredictable event – for which the basic means are not sufficient, the staff member who is not on duty can be recalled. There are approximately 5,000 professionals and 12,000 volunteers in all relief areas. In the event of a major disaster, many of the country's firefighters would therefore be mobilizable. It should be noted that about 10% of firefighters have professional status in one rescue and volunteer area in another. Civil protection acts as a second line support service for specialized interventions with heavy and specific equipment. To this end, civil protection has 460 professional staff and 400 voluntary staff. Civil protection therefore has an average of 66 directly mobilised professionals per day, since the hourly regime is 24 hours – with a unit presence of one day out of four – in six units. In the circumstances of a major disaster, the rest of the professionals, as well as the volunteers, would be recalled in order to be mobilized. As you know, this situation will be different after January 1, 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u52	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, in the emergency areas, specialized firefighters have been trained in addition to that provided to each firefighter. These courses are conducted on a voluntary basis. Divers, NAC firefighters (new pets), climbers, members of chemical risk, nuclear risk response cells, etc. can be identified. I learn that in the Hainaut-Est area covering communes from Fleurus to Chimay, which is an important territory, several firefighters resign from their specialization because, according to them, of lack of financial recognition: no risk premium or unsanitary allowance is granted to them, as is the case with the army. We are talking about a gross monthly amount close to the 250 euros that is no longer granted to them. The risks of diving are significant (water pollution, injuries caused by submerged objects made invisible, etc.).). Thus, for this immense area where the risks of drowning are great (notably with the passage of the Sambre in the area, many quarries filled with water, the dams of the Water of Hour, the Water of Hour and its numerous weirs, etc.).), there would be a real shortage in some guards. It would happen on a regular basis that only one diver is available during a guard or none. Recall that it is necessary to form pairs in case of intervention. In this case, the colleagues of La Louvière must be called on, who, perhaps simultaneously, face the same problem of specialized staff. Minister, do you confirm that specialized firefighters do not receive any hazard or unsafe pay? If not, do you think it is possible to award any allowances for such specializations? According to your information, is the framework of such specialized firefighters complete and mobilizable at each guard and in each area? When a person falls into the water, each second counts. Is it conceivable to have to resort to areas several tens of kilometres away before the arrival of divers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u53	Mr Flahaux, the financial status of operational personnel in rescue zones provides that a professional or voluntary firefighter shall be entitled to a diploma allowance when he holds a diploma, patent or certificate set out in a list set out in the Ministerial Decree of 15 March 1995 laying down the diplomas, patents and certificates taken into account for the granting of a diploma allowance to certain fire service agents, and that such diploma, patent or certificate is useful for the performance of the function. The amount of the allowance shall be determined by the relief zone within the limits set by the financial status. It is therefore one of the discreet skills of the area. However, the list drawn up by ministerial decree is outdated in view of the specialisations currently required in the relief areas. A change in the financial status of firefighters and this list is under way. With regard to financial status, the draft decree provides that the relief zone shall determine, from the list drawn up by the ministerial decree, certificates entitled to an allocation on the basis of the risk analysis specific to the area. As you mention, the area you refer to may decide to have more divers than another. It is therefore up to the area to determine its specific needs based on a risk analysis on its territory. In addition, the certificate must always be useful for the performance of the function. It will always be up to the relief zone to determine the amount within the limits set by the statute. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the diving certificate already entitles you to a diploma allowance. To answer your question about the number of specialists needed, it is up to each relief zone to estimate, on the basis of its risk analysis, the usefulness of having specialized, professional or voluntary staff, and to conclude agreements, if necessary, with neighbouring areas. These powers fall within the scope of the rescue zones because the risks are different for the thirty-four zones. I'm not going to say that all areas must have ten divers. That would be silly, some areas don't have a river or a canal. Why would they need ten divers? We are starting from a local risk analysis at the area level and see which specialists should be planned for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u54	Thank you, Minister. If power is closest to the citizen, I strongly agree in the sense that it is the area that makes the decision rather than the federal one. Good. Perhaps it would be interesting, since the zones are quite recent, for a circular to specify the operation of the zones to be published. On the other hand, you mentioned the fact that the order, which is a little outdated, was being revised. Of course, it would be interesting to make clear to the areas what is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u55	We regularly use these two means. If you learn something from the field, we think it can be interesting for everyone. Second, our inspection service is not a traditional inspection service. They're not here to see what's going on and punish the areas, but they're working more in coaching mode. They go to one area, analyse the problem and how to improve the work thanks to the good practices of the other areas. As a great statesman said, "You can lead the horse to the water, but you can't make him drink." We can take the horse to the edge of the water, with or without a diver, but it is in the areas to make it drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u56	I thank you for these clarifications, which also show that, even if we are not of the same party, you seem to me to be close to citizens' concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u57	Minister, do you know Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, a laughing commune of the Lower Namurese Samber? Its mono-communal police area has had long-standing difficulties. I do not know whether these are linked to its status as a mono-municipal zone or to a political governance problem. During the previous legislature, I had the opportunity to question your predecessor on several occasions about the deplorable social climate in the Jemeppe-sur-Sambre police area. Unfortunately, there is still a deep malaise. This is an extremely problematic situation for the well-being of agents, many of whom are now on sick leave, but also, potentially, for the safety of citizens. Thus, it appears that at the beginning of the week of 20 September, the intervention service was decimated by absences. Long-term absent staff members were added to the list by colleagues who had recently filed a medical certificate. The area was forced to use neighbouring areas for interventions and for the custody of detainees. The situation is not improved. As recently as yesterday, a consultation meeting was held with the group heads of the various political groups represented on the communal council. It has led to a non-decision and a postponement of the necessary investments. Some police unions are threatening to file notice of strike. Following a previous episode of this crisis in 2016, the prevention and protection department at work carried out a study of psychosocial risks within the area. The excerpts from the report published in the press are quite instructive. They point in particular to "a clear malaise of a majority of people in relations with their head of body, the overly direct, too authoritarian behaviour of the latter, a management based on the threat... ". All this takes place beyond the absence of political governance. It should be noted, however, that the malaise within the area did not date back to the arrival of the present Chief of Corps. It also raises the older problem of understaffing and the near absence of investment in infrastructure, and of totally unworthy working conditions. These shortcomings are of course the responsibility of the political authority and not the head of the zone. Minister, have you been informed of the situation of deep discomfort in this police area? Have you read the report of the prevention and protection department at work? What is your diagnosis or that of central police services about the situation? What solutions will be proposed? Will there be consultation with the police representatives, the management of the area and the communal political authority? Does the federal police intend to provide ad hoc support to this police area? Is mediation envisaged? In what time frame? I am fully aware that this is a communal jurisdiction, but the federal authority must not be blind when there are such recurring problems as those faced by this police area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u58	Mr Gilkinet, first of all I must remind you that the local police force is under the control of the local authorities and that it is not for me, as Minister of the Interior, to interfere in their day-to-day management. I would also like to point out that there is a panel of local consultation procedures that can be activated in this situation. At my level, my services have not been seized of a file concerning this area. To answer your questions, I am aware of the unease in the Jemeppe-sur-Sambre police area. It is not new and is regularly published in the press. As far as the report of the prevention and protection service at work is concerned, it is not for me to comment on its content. In terms of timing, I know that this report was submitted and communicated to the police area in March 2017 and that the resulting action plans are being finalized. An audit of the police area by the AIG is under way at the request of the Chief of Corps. As a former mayor of Brasschaat, I can say that the assistance of the AIG is very effective. In addition, I would like to point out the situation of a very small number of personnel in the area: a total of 48 operational and 8 CALog to carry out basic police missions. This situation again emerged during the mission on the state of the achievements and intentions in terms of collaboration, synergy, mutualization, expansion of functional or territorial scale, fusion of local police areas in that province. This exercise is carried out by an expert, Mr Fernand Koekelberg. It shows that this area, as well as other similar areas, are ready to optimize their operation through collaborations, synergies and even mergers. Positive element: a review to create new synergies with one or the other neighbouring area is under way. To answer your second question, it is not for me to make a diagnosis in the current state of the file, but I see the following. Since the problems occurred prior to the arrival of the current zone chief, the latter, who retains the confidence of the local authority, would have been given a mandate to restore order in the police area. Cooperation between the trade unions, the police zone management and the municipal authorities has been ongoing since its arrival in the area. There is no union claim in relation to the sudden outbreak of members of the police zone response service. In 2016 and 2017, there was only one request for mobility by a collaborator, proof that the situation is not as catastrophic as it was presented. And, I repeat, we're looking for solutions at the area level. For your third question on proposed solutions, mediation and deadlines, I suggest that you contact the local authorities directly. With regard to trade union cooperation, there are procedures at the local level which can be activated in such situations. Trade union consultation at the federal level is activated only in the event of failure of cooperation at the local level. Furthermore, if I am aware of the strike notice filings, respectively, twice in 2009 and once in 2011, and processed by my predecessors, I would like to point out that to date, my services have not received any claims from the trade union organizations. So far, no requests for reinforcements have been received by the Federal Police. Where appropriate, the Commission will carry out its role of support and subsidiarity, as required by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u59	Mr President, Minister, thank you for that answer. You say you have not yet received a notice of notice of strike or a request for reinforcements. It may be soon because it was announced this morning in the local press and it seems to me that for these areas, it does not seem to be a matter of day-to-day management problems but a more structural problem, of the order of fire in relation to which the federal police should be able to react. I agree with you in your analysis that the primary responsibility lies with the commune, in the head of the president of the police zone, the mayor of Jemeppe-sur-Sambre. The members of my political group in Jemeppe-sur-Sambre have repeatedly called the alarm and it is because of the ineffectiveness of this front-line intervention that I would be able to call on your services. I am pleased that an audit of the AIG is under way and that, like you, it will see the shortage in terms of personnel, linked to a policy of austerity applied at the level of the police zone and a historic refusal to merge with other neighbouring areas. I hope that beyond this audit of the AIG, the federal police services will be able to intervene to improve the situation, both in the short term, given the obvious malaise and the problems on the protection and implementation of police missions on a daily basis, but also in a more structural way, given the changes needed since 2009-2011, during which we did not observe structural improvements, which is not acceptable in relation to these basic missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u60	Question No 20678 and Question No 20679 by Mr Conseil De Groote Question No 207, by Mrs Barbara Pas and Question No 20713 Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux's 20721 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u61	Minister, here is a question I raised in the aftermath of the Barcelona attacks. We can see that in Europe there is a growing number of bomb attacks. To try to protect oneself, concrete blocks bloom in cities and have become indispensable in major events since the attacks in Nice, Berlin and Barcelona in particular. We are also in Brussels. Their reliability, however, is being questioned. A crash test carried out by Dekra, the German motor vehicle inspection association, showed limited system efficiency. Blocks have several drawbacks. This creates a problem of accessibility, which has been raised, in particular, by Brussels firefighters who can no longer access pedestrians. It also seems, according to this crash test carried out by Dekra, that although the truck is seriously damaged by the collision with these concrete blocks, at 50 km/hour, it still continues its race for at least tens of meters. The presence of these concrete blocks would also have an anxiety effect on the population. Several alternatives are tested in the world. For example, a system of giant metal valves coming out of the ground if the vehicle has not been identified and has not deactivated the device, as is the case at Charleroi airport. Or a mobile metal L-system that can be temporarily installed in streets to block access and hang in the bottom of the vehicle if it is hit. Minister, are we doing tests similar to those in Germany to evaluate our safety features? What system of security do you recommend for the security of major events in particular? Are there any recommendations to the municipal authorities and/or event organizers regarding the establishment of security perimeters? Do you have contacts with companies developing such systems? Is support from the authority in research and development in this sector envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u62	Mr Dallemagne, although the Belgian police services have not actually tested different security systems, such as those mentioned above, several types of such equipment have been deployed, in particular through rental. These leased equipment have been tested by their suppliers. In this regard, public procurement is under preparation. However, for many years, the federal police have been using and providing, on demand, the New Jersey concrete block system, or even heavy or armoured vehicles, used to provide a'verrou'-style' safety device. Within the framework of level 3 of the threat established by the OCAM for Belgium as a whole, public places are considered soft targets and are therefore potential targets taken seriously by the authorities. With regard to these potential targets, the Chiefs of Corps are asked to conduct a risk analysis and an operational analysis on the basis of which the security arrangements are organized, taking into account the different modus operandi; the use of vehicles as weapons is mentioned among other things. The Crisis Centre has suggested various possible measures from which the head of the body can draw. It is also planned that the heads of corps will organise the contact and briefing of event organizers and operators. Local police areas also check the organisation's internal measures and access control. The placement of anti-vehicle obstacles, e.g. the blocking of arteries, the placement of vehicles or equipment (concrete blocks, etc.) is also part of the measures advocated by the Crisis Centre. Concrete blocks are a visible part of such a device but are only part of all the devices put in place. The Crisis Centre also stresses that given the potential impact of an attack, it is important to involve all disciplines in the preparations to ensure an integrated and multidisciplinary approach. Various companies are active in this field around the world. I am not currently considering developing a financing policy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u63	Thank you, Minister. Just a small question: you say that public procurement is under way. What kind of equipment is this for?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u64	The problem is described and the various services are left to propose their solution. Then we'll see what's most interesting. We'll test it and we'll buy it eventually. We are not going to impose the type of equipment, but rather to specify the type of threats we are facing. This in order not to exclude anything in a first phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u65	Minister of the Interior, more than 42,000 foreign terrorist fighters travelled to Daesh from more than 120 countries between 2011 and 2016, including more than 5,000 from Europe. As we know, many of them have left from home, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and Sweden, to name but a few of the main suppliers of FTF. If we focus our attention on the jihadists in question, we often forget to mention their children. Is there an assessment to date of the number of children of jihadists from Belgium travelling in combat zones or wishing to travel, by FTF category, from 1 to 5? Do we know where these children are? Are they aware of the risk they face or constitute? What measures have been taken with regard to these minor children? Did these children come back in part? Is there a follow-up to the threat they may pose or the assistance they may need? If measured, are they articulated between the different levels of power? Are they articulated at European and international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u66	According to our information, fourteen children of FTF category 3 (category 3 being that of returns) returned to Belgium. Of these, eleven were under the age of six at the time of their return. They probably did not attend school organized by the Islamic State terrorist group, as it would be compulsory only after six years of age. It can therefore be assumed that their indoctrination by the Islamic State group is relatively small. The current threat they represent can therefore be considered low. Because of their family context and the trauma they have endured as a result of their establishment in an area of conflict, a follow-up combining the psycho-social-preventive and safe dimensions remains necessary. Three of these fourteen children were over the age of six when they returned to Belgium. An appropriate follow-up has been put in place to guide their return to Belgium. In addition, six foreign terror fighters of category 3, who were minors when they left in the Syrian-Iraqi zone, have in the meantime become major. Three of them left with their parents. The threat they represent depends on their situation and the individual context. All minors returning from the Syrio-Iraq area are monitored by the Youth Prosecutor's Office and the Youth Assistance Agencies of the Communities. In addition, they can be monitored by local task forces and local integrated security cells if necessary. Where the return of a minor or a family with minors is likely in the short term (e.g. reported in Turkey), the OCAM shall transmit a fact sheet to the youth welfare agencies of the Communities, to the Public Prosecutor's Office and to the competent coordinating directors of the Federal Police. He is the chairman of the competent local R-plan task force. A second fact sheet is sent to the same persons when further information is available on the return of minors to Belgium (date and place of arrival, etc.).). This enables the services concerned to anticipate appropriate follow-up and accompanying measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u67	Minister, thank you for this information on the foreign terror fighters of category 3. But you did not answer about the other FTF categories. On the spot, how many Belgian minors would there be, either left here or born there to Belgian parents? What happens to these minors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u68	There are 177 Belgians still here, in category 1. Among them, there are about 30 minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u69	It would have been interesting to have more detailed information. Is this information that you do not have or do not wish to communicate? Can I come back with a question or is it useless? Will you possibly pass on this information to me? [[Sentiment]] All right, perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u70	Mr Vice Prime Minister, following the Pukkelpopodrama, the then Minister responsible for Telecommunications announced three rapid measures in August 2011 to facilitate communication, including so-called cell broadcasting and alert messages. The system provides the possibility to send messages to the active mobile phones in a specified area, without prior registration being required. You stated at the beginning of this year that the alerts will be made available to the municipalities in the spring of 2017. Firstly, what is the state of play of the initiative? How do you evaluate the implementation? Secondly, how many warning texts were already sent outside the testing environment? How many percent of the people present receive and read the relevant texts? Within what average time limit after dispatch? In which languages is a warning message sent, broken down by region? What is the initial cost of the system? What is the estimated annual cost of maintenance over the next 10 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u71	Mr Bogaert, as regards your first question, the technology Alert SMS was developed in 2016 by the three largest Belgian mobile operators. The technology makes it possible to send a text message or text message to all active mobile phones in a particular zone, without the recipients having to register in advance. In addition to the development of the Alert SMS technology, the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications was amended to regulate the use of the technology in emergency situations. Alert SMS was tested four times in real time in a real audience, namely in the municipality of Waterloo on 8 June, during Rock Werchter on 30 June and during an alarm test in Mons and in Sint-Amands on 5 October 2017. The tests have ensured that organisational adjustments have been made. By way of example, the activation process was optimised so that the area to be delineated and the content of the message reach the operators more quickly. The four tests were carried out in real conditions and are therefore representative of the activation of Alert SMS in emergency situations. In this sense, therefore, no technical testing environment was set up. During the shipment in Waterloo, the message was sent to just over 22 000 aircraft. The shipment in Werchter went out to 44 000 identified aircraft in the zone. In Mons an alarm was sent in the center of the city. After 15 minutes, 43 502 text messages were delivered to the population who was physically present in the zone. In Sint-Amands, 4 056 texts were delivered in the demarcated area. In addition, on 29 September 2017, the alert SMS channel was activated for the first time in the real context of an imminent emergency situation, namely in Virton. 5 261 text messages were delivered. The exported shipments show a high level of coverage and fast shipping. During the test in Waterloo, the message was sent to 82 % of the identified devices at a hundred seconds time. During the Werchter test, the message was sent to more than 95% of the identified devices in the zone. Most messages were received within five minutes of the activation of the shipment. For shipments during the real emergency at Virton and during the alarm test at Mons and Sint-Amands, more than 85 % of the text messages were delivered. One may wonder why this does not happen everywhere. Some people's mailbox is full. A cell phone that is disabled can be detected, but no text messages come in at that time. That is why no 100 % is reached. The law on the use of languages also applies when be-alert or alert SMS are used. This means that the message must first be sent in the language of the region: in Dutch for the Flemish Community, in French for the Walloon Community, in German and in French for the German-speaking Community, in Dutch and French in the Brussels-Capital Region and in the two languages when it comes to facilities municipalities. Then we do it first in Dutch and then in French when it comes to the Flemish facilities municipalities, and vice versa for the Walloon region. In the event of an emergency, it may be decided at the time of activation to also send a second message in another language, usually English, with the aim of informing as many people as possible. Think, for example, of an emergency situation near tourist attractions in our country. As regards cost, like the development of the platform be-alert, the development of the technology Alert SMS has been the subject of a public contract of the type of negotiated procedure without publication. The project was financed through the 2015 Federal Interdepartmental Reserve. The contract amounts to EUR 2.1 million and covers the full development costs. The recent amendment to the telecoms law provides that the operating costs are to be borne by operators if the technology is used for an imminent emergency. The maintenance costs of Alert SMS are also borne by mobile network operators. Therefore, there are no annual maintenance costs borne by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u72	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u73	Mr President, Minister, it has been a long time since the government "completed" the nuclear emergency plan. Could you tell me where this plan is being drawn up and what is its final timetable for adoption? More specifically, on the distribution side of iodine tablets, do you confirm that these tablets will now be distributed free of charge throughout the country and to the general public, and not only to the most vulnerable groups (children, pregnant women and nursing women)? How will these tablets be distributed? Will it be a pre-distribution or a lay-off in all pharmacies across the country? What particular distribution will you make for schools and crèches, areas where children live half a year? Is your goal good to conduct an information campaign in early 2018? Is the distribution also planned in early 2018? If not, when is it planned? How many iodine tablets have you ordered? When will they be delivered to you? How much did this order cost you? And I end with a question that was blown to me by my colleague, Georges Gilkinet: what will be the role of the army in distribution and/or storage?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u74	Mr President, Mr Nollet, a third version of the proposed contingency plan is currently being discussed within the government. The aim is to have an approved plan in place this year. As already announced on several occasions, the pre-distribution of iodine tablets currently planned in an area of 20 kilometres around nuclear sites will be extended to a radius of 100 kilometres, to the entire country. This campaign will primarily target sensitive groups (children, pregnant and breastfeeding women) but no one will be excluded. I think, for example, of grandparents who wish to have iodine tablets at home for their grandchildren. It is made available via pharmacies. Schools and nurseries will be able to pick up iodine tablets through the existing pharmaceutical distribution system. The dissemination of accurate practical information and modalities is part of the ongoing discussions with the relevant authorities and partner organisations. The nuclear risk information campaign and the pre-distribution campaign for iodine tablets will take place at the same time. They are scheduled for February and March 2018. However, approval of the new nuclear emergency plan is required in advance. Four million six hundred thousand packs of ten tablets were ordered for an amount of 2.3 million euros. There is no specific role for Defence in pre-distribution or storage of iodine tablets. With regard to storage, in addition to a centralized stock, decentralized stocks are planned for civilian emergency services. The practical arrangements for this are discussed with the services concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u75	Minister, thank you. Indeed, this is not the first time I have asked you this question. But I have allowed myself to do so because in Germany and the Netherlands the tablets are already distributed. The country most concerned, due to problematic power plants, has not yet done so. Now, dates are announced. If everything goes well, in February and March 2018 for information and pre-distribution campaigns, it will be done. But if I understand correctly, pre-distribution is not what is commonly called pro-active pre-distribution. In the countries I have just mentioned, within a radius of 20 kilometres around the power stations, distribution is done by going to people's homes. Here, systematically and throughout the territory, it is the people who have to go to the pharmacies for free. It will obviously be more difficult to make sure that people have the tablets at home. But I assume that distribution statistics will be kept. I will therefore come back to you in a few weeks or months, hoping that there will be no delay in the announced timetable and that the plan will finally and definitively be adopted. I also hope that there will also be the "large nature" evacuation exercises that I have been demanding in vain for several years. I'll come back to that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u76	Mr Hellings is working on another committee and will be here shortly. Debates of the European Parliament 20844 by Mrs Sarah Smeyers is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 20861 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u77	Minister, a few weeks ago the daily newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws reported that a mistake had been made in an examination of professional skills for the federal police. Two hundred candidates who applied for inspector training actually passed the test they thought they had missed. The recruitment department then explained that this theoretical test would not count for their future training and that only the psychological test would be taken into account. But several candidates complained of manipulation of the psychological test: in fact theoretical questions such as the role of Interpol or the number of directors of the federal police were asked of these candidates. For the latter, these purely theoretical questions had nothing to do with a personality test. In the end, for those candidates who failed the psychological test, the opinion of the Chief of Staff was taken into account. However, the selection procedure appears to require revision. Moreover, in 2016, I had already asked you about raising the threshold required to enter the police. Candidates must now have a score of 12 out of 20 to succeed, which has increased the failure rate. You then told me that you were waiting for 2017 to see the impact that this new rating threshold could have on the hiring of new candidates. Minister, how can this error in the selection process be explained? Why did purely theoretical questions end up in a personality test? Do you intend to review the selection process? If so, what improvements could you make? What about the success of the tests following the new rating? Is there a lot of chess? Will this have an impact on hiring?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u78	Ms. Ben Hamou, as part of the accession of police officers to the ranks of police inspectors through social promotion, the selection rules provide that candidates must meet a specific competency profile announced to potential candidates prior to the start of the exams. In order to test the suitability of candidates for the profile, they must undergo a selection procedure which includes, among other things, a personality test. During this personality test, the candidate's profile is tested according to the chosen competency model. This test is conducted using a variety of selection techniques, including a personality test, a biographical questionnaire and a structured interview with a member of the recruitment and selection department. During this interview, the knowledge questions are not asked in order to test the candidate's technical knowledge. The assessor must thoroughly and selectively assess the candidate's skills. The answer to an occasional knowledge question can therefore validate other answers, lead or be the basis for other questions. One of the skills tested during the personality test is the processing of information, i.e. how the candidate collects, processes and expresses information. In addition, during this interaction with the candidate, other skills can be measured through knowledge issues, such as realistic expectations of the job, preparation of the candidate during the selection process, his/her vision of the future and the motivation he/she has shown during his/her career and at the time of his/her application for recruitment. There is no measure of pure knowledge, but a model of skills. The current selection procedure was outlined after police reform. More than 15 years later, it is appropriate to evaluate the procedure and possibly correct it, taking into account the present needs and the challenges ahead. For the time being, two initiatives have been taken to improve selection and flow. This is first a review of all the processes to be managed as part of the main task plan and, second, a full audit of recruitment, accompanied by a reduction in transit time and a qualitative increase. You will be kept informed in good time, as these two studies have been in progress for a few months. Finally, the threshold of success of 12 out of 20 relates to the training of police officers and not to the selection procedure. This criterion is therefore not included in the procedure for the accession of police officers to the police inspectorate. Rather, it is the test planned at the end of a training course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u79	Minister, thank you for all these explanations. For my part, I wanted to know why a bug had occurred in the selection procedure. You gave me an update, but how was it that we told agents who had apparently failed that they had succeeded? I'm wondering about the exam.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u80	The police are still an organization of human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u81	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u82	And human beings make mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u83	It's the system that's had some failures. That's why I asked you if you were going to amend the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u84	It is obvious that we are going to review the procedures. However, mistakes in an organization of 45,000 human beings cannot be ruled out. Yes, we are conducting an evaluation of the procedures to see if they can be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u85	I take note of the fact that you were analyzing the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u86	Question No 20875 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is postponed. The answer to Question No 20880 by Mr Emir Kir will be given by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u87	Mr. Chairman, Minister Geens answered me a few minutes ago. Therefore, Parliament is working, and I am pleased with it. Mr Minister, according to information reported by RTL Info, on 26 September last, Belgian Justice launched a website for people who are victims of computer hacking, in order to fight ransomware. Indeed, this phenomenon of hostage-taking viruses is growing worldwide, saving neither individuals nor companies. It is a malicious computer program that executes unwanted manipulation in the victim's computer system, often consisting of locking or encryption of data. He later demanded a ransom for the system to function normally again. To combat this scourge, the police are launching a website, nomoreransom.org, on which you can find prevention advice, but also a form to report an attack, as well as solutions to unlock your computer. Currently, justice does not have an accurate picture of the phenomenon, as reports of infection are not recorded with sufficient precision. Moreover, many contaminations are never even reported to the police. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you indicate how many reports have been made to this site since its launch? What is the average time to process a complaint? What measures will be taken to encourage victims of computer hacking to report these acts more to the police? What are the instructions received by the police to deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u88	Mr Kir, the site nomoreransom.org has existed since July 2016, at the initiative of the Dutch National Hightech Crime Unit, the Europol-based European Cybercrime Centre and two cybersecurity companies: Kaspersky Lab and McAfee. The goal is to help ransomware victims find their encrypted data without paying the criminals. Secondly, the aim is to educate users about the functioning of this virus and the countermeasures that can be taken in order to effectively prevent infections. It is not a reporting or complaint site. In April 2017, the Belgian Federal Police and the Belgian Cyber Security Centre became partners in the support partnership project. One year after the launch of the site in July 2017, Europol published some results of the project. The project has more than 100 partners. The site has 54 decryption tools provided by nine partners covering 104 types of ransomware. These tools have succeeded in deciphering more than 28,000 devices, depriving cyber criminals of about 8 million euros in ransom. The portal has had more than 1.3 million unique visitors. The other issues fall within the competence of my colleague the Minister of Justice, but I can give you some guidance. On 14 September 2017, the College of Attorneys General issued a new circular on criminal policy on ransomware. The circular aims to make improvements in the various stages of the law enforcement chain: the procedure for registering complaints, increasing the quality of the first findings, acquiring a comprehensive national and international image of the phenomenon, defining an effective research and prosecution policy, also in an international context, and an integrated and integral approach. As part of this circular, a hearing model and a pv model were distributed to the various police areas. Police areas now have more information on ransomware, allowing them to better address citizens' complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u89	Minister, is there any specific action taken to ensure that people know where to go? Is there any communication in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u90	Yes, we have on several occasions made communications with the business community as well as within the public sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u91	So you organized an information campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u92	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux's 20985 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u93	Mr President, Minister, I would like to be able to do as clearly as possible on what has historically been identified as "cracks", as defects, on the tanks of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. First of all in the construction phase, because we learned that a 1976 report of defects was exhumed by the press. Can you tell me if any "cracks" were detected during the Doel 3 construction phase? If so, what type of defects were they: DDH (hydrogen defects), DSR (coated defects) or other types of defects? What was the number of these "cracks", their average size, the size of the largest and where were they located? What decisions have been made as a result of this discovery? My questions are the same for Tihange 2. I won't repeat them. Then, when commissioning, it is assumed that a test was performed. Can you tell me if any "cracks" were detected during the Doel 3 commissioning phase? If so, what kind of defects were they? What was the number of these "cracks", their average size, the size of the largest and where were they located? What decisions have been made as a result of this discovery? I have three identical questions for Tihange 2. I won't repeat them, you know the list. Chapter three, 10-year inspections. As required by legislation, reactors are subject to 10-year inspections. When did the 10-year inspections on Doel 3 and Tihange 2 take place? Has a "cracking" test been carried out on these occasions on the tanks of these reactors? Can you tell me if any "cracks" were detected during a 10-year inspection of Doel 3? If so, when and what type of defects were they? What was the number of these "cracks", their average size, the size of the largest and where were they located? What decisions have been made as a result of this discovery? I have three identical questions again for Tihange 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u94	Mr Nollet, first of all, I want to clarify certain points. No reports were exhumed by the press, but various documents were made public by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) under the Transparency Act, at the request of a German parliamentarian. The Commission requested that documents from the construction file be provided to it. These documents are mentioned several times in the AFCN evaluation reports and international expert groups published on the AFCN website since 2013. This request therefore meets the conditions for access to information in accordance with the Transparency Act. Of course, the AFCN agreed to this parliamentarian's request. This is therefore not in any way new information or hidden documents but documents which have been evaluated by the Nuclear Safety Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u95	I didn't say they were hidden!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u96	I just wanted to clarify things. The papers were therefore also presented to the international expert group. In 2012-2013, AFCN conducted a specific inspection of these documents to verify that the information synthesized by Engie Electrabel was correct. In summary, these documents were therefore known, specifically evaluated and made public by the AFCN. What is found in these documents? They point out, as AFCN has already explained on several occasions, that ultrasonic controls have been carried out on the forged parts of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 at the time of their manufacture. These checks were carried out in accordance with the ultrasonic inspection procedure provided for by the manufacturer. The documents first show that these controls were used at the time to detect the presence of hydrogen flake-like defects. On the other hand, these documents also state that the manufacturer should only report their presence to the customer if these defects were considered potentially problematic. Thus when a document does not mention the presence of defects, this does not mean that there are no defects but only if some have been detected, it was not considered necessary to report them because they were not considered problematic. These documents mention hydrogen flakes on various forged parts of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. For the most affected Doel 3 virole, a large covering area of defect is mentioned during the first manufacturing check, but is no longer reported during the final check. The part is thus finally considered healthy by the manufacturer. As the engineers of the time did not consider the defects detected problematic, they were not characterized. This means that there is no mention of their number, position or size. For this reason, many studies have been required by the AFCN to demonstrate that these defects have not grown since manufacture, as their initial dimensions are not known. On the other hand, one piece of Tihange 2 was rejected due to the detection of a large number of hydrogen flakes after evaluation and discussion with the client. Here too, detailed characterization of defects is not available. In summary, these documents show that the manufacturer was able to detect defects, which he detected, that according to the procedures of the time, he in some cases rejected the part, and in others, he found them sound for the service. In none of the cases, the initial characterization of defects, if performed at the time, is yet available. However, AFCN recalls that the initial characterization of hydrogen flakes would have almost no added value in the absence of the machine of the time and the conditions for carrying out the tests. Indeed, it is widely demonstrated that a comparison of the dimensions of defects makes sense only when the tests are carried out with the same machine and settings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u97	Minister, I hear your answer. On the public side, I just said that the press had exhumed this information. I didn't say they were necessarily hidden, even though they were for a while. I'm surprised at part of your answer. You say that what was identified at the time, and mentioned in the 76 report and in the commissioning report, are defects due to hydrogen. That's what you said: HRDs (hydrogen faults). I am surprised because the previous information in Belgium indicated defects under the coatings, i.e. another type of cracks, another type of defects than those identified at a later stage. Your answer today tells us that these are hydrogen defects. I will come back to you later with details of the differences in appreciation. I have not heard in your answer anything other than saying that the tools of the time are no longer the same as today and that those of the time did not allow to have either the number or the size. Does this also apply to 10-year inspections? Or are they only valid for the construction and commissioning phases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u98	Yes, indeed, my answer concerns the construction and commissioning phases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u99	So what about the ten-year phases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u100	I thought you were asking for this to make the comparison. We do not have information about the initial numbers. But I can communicate them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u101	My request concerns the three phases: the construction phase, the commissioning phase and the 10-year revision phases. Then we have the current tests (2012, 2014 and the update). For the moment, your answer lacks the aspects of the ten-year phases. If I obtain these elements through your collaborator, it will allow me to bounce back later and have an overview of the situation, which is currently not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u102	Questions Nos 21019 and 21020 by Mrs Katja Gabriels were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u103	Minister, the Internal SPF and the municipality of Molenbeek will set up in the coming weeks a pilot experiment in the fight against radicalism. An envelope of 100,000 euros issued by the Home SPF will be handed over to the ASBL We Love BXL in order to carry out this project. This ASBL is managed in particular by the Antwerp Sihame El Kaouakibi, well known in Flanders for its social projects carried out in particular in the Antwerp region since 2009. In particular, it has conducted a programme of extracurricular activities and propelled young entrepreneurs. His project for Molenbeek is not yet known. As a result, numerous reactions, including that of the Minister of Youth Aid Rachid Madrane, questioned the legitimacy of this ASBL created last July, when the subside was confirmed. The main criticisms concern the lack of knowledge of the Brussels area of the ASBL, the speed of obtaining subsidies, while many local ASBLs are waiting for years to be supported by the public authorities or the access that this ASBL will have to the police data concerning radicalised young people. Minister, without prejudging or condemning a priori any BLSO, I would like to ask you the following questions. How has the public procurement for this project been conducted and how many applications have been received? What selection procedure and criteria were used to select the ASBL We Love BXL who finally obtained the subsidy? Is it not strange to register the ASBL at the same time as granting the subsidy? Is there no rules in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u104	Minister, I am asking you about a 100 000 euro federal subsidy to an association in the fight against radicalism. This Antwerp association would therefore be entrusted with a mission for "the development of an innovative local approach to disengagement in the context of the fight against violent radicalism", through a convention between the federal government and the municipality of Molenbeek. There are many questions as to the choice of the non-profit organization in question as the bearer of this pilot project and the award procedures that led to its designation. Indeed, one wonders about the specific competences of an Antwerp ASBL, created on 18 July 2017, for the development of a pilot project of such magnitude on the specific terrain of the municipality of Molenbeek. Moreover, it is up to us that the agreement between the parties provides for the provision of sensitive data concerning Molenbeek youth. These data are collected in particular within the municipality's ISIL. Is that correct? In this case, can you inform us about the procedures followed for the allocation of this project. Considering the amount – not 5,000 euros but 100 000 euros – you cannot imagine that there was no invitation to tender. According to what timetable and with what publicity measures? How many offers have they received to the firm? How have the communal authorities been involved? What specific criteria have led to the selection of this candidate in particular, possibly outside the personality of one of its founders? How do you justify in this case the communication to a private operator of sensitive data concerning young people residing in the territory of the municipality of Molenbeek?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u105	Gentlemen, let me clarify some of the essential things that relate to your question. On my proposal, the government granted a subsidy of 100,000 euros to the municipality of Molenbeek. The government took this decision by considering the threat posed by the return of foreign terror fighters and, above all, the threat posed by home terror fighters. To deal with this situation, it is essential to be able to develop a structured approach to disengagement and deradicalisation in our territory. To date, it has to be recognized that a structured experience of deradicalization and disengagement does not exist in our territory from the beginning to the end. This is, however, essential in order to be able to define effectively the actions that will lead to concrete and convincing results. There are local initiatives but local authorities are precisely asking for guidance, methodological support to ensure that their actions lead to positive results. In response to these requests, I proposed to the government that a pilot experiment be carried out in Molenbeek, where there is no doubt of a need. The aim of this pilot experiment is to offer a concrete alternative to young people tempted by radicalisation, an alternative that removes them from a violent radical group; to mobilize local actors who are able to come into contact with young people in situations of radicalisation, to encourage their acceptance, to accompany them over time; to develop the knowledge and methods of professionals working with radicalised young people. This knowledge and methods can then, once deemed to be conclusive by the Inland FPS – designated as the Experience Evaluator – be disseminated by the Experience Evaluator. I would like to put in place a mechanism, a multidisciplinary approach involving not only public operators but also private actors, represented by both the associations and the business world. This approach will focus on adolescents and young adults between 12 and 25 years of age, corresponding to different profiles: young people at risk of delinquency through risky or disruptive behaviour, drop-out from school, primary offenders, young people re-iterating or repeat offenders leaving detention, young people in the process of radicalisation or radicalisation, etc. The pilot experiment will aim to empower each young person in his/her personal environment so that he/she feels that he/she is part of society, that he/she perceives himself/herself as a real added value and that he/she acts as such in order to strengthen his/her resilience to extremist discourses. However, in order to carry out this approach in consultation with the municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, it seemed to us appropriate to conduct the pilot experiment in order to mix, in the mechanisms we want to test, both young people from the target audience and young people without apparent problems or risks of delinquency. We are doing this in order to strengthen integration and acceptance. It is with this in mind that we have agreed to work with an ASBL in particular, which is already active in this type of projects at the local level. I repeat, this is a pilot experiment that will be evaluated by my administration. A memorandum of understanding will shortly be concluded between the municipality of Molenbeek and myself. It will define the actions expected to implement the experiment. The implementation of this protocol will be followed by my administration, which will exercise financial control over the proper use of the resources allocated, but will also carry out an evaluation of the practices in order to determine whether the experience is fruitful and can be replicated and transposed to other local actors. This clarification allows me to answer your questions. The government does not act here in the context of a public procurement that requires a clear approach, clear delivery modalities and also a firm commitment to achieving results. The public procurement also assumes that the amount of the intervention represents the exact counterpart of the service to be rendered. In this context, it would be impossible to conduct a pilot experiment, which is the aim here. The government is therefore acting in the context of a grant which allows it to make a financial contribution for an operation (the pilot experiment) which represents a general interest (the fight against violent radicalism) and which is initiated and led by a third party (the municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean in collaboration with the ASBL you mention), to meet needs (need to have a model of approach to deradicalisation and disengagement) and the amount of which is unilaterally fixed by the public authority without representing the exact counterpart of the sustained service (this is the case in this case). Finally, to answer your question about the communication of sensitive data to the ASBL, which is a question, this is not at all what is envisaged! It will be up to the municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean to determine the young people who will want and can integrate this individual deradicalization route. In any case, there is no question in my head of transmitting more information than that to the ASBL.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u106	Minister, thank you for your answer. In essence, it is interesting that the Internal FPS, your firm and yourself are interested in the fight against radicalism through prevention and action on the ground, even though we know that these skills are shared between different levels of power. At least this effort is part of a philosophy that ecologists have always pursued: putting much more resources into this approach, which is, for us, the main and structural approach to be put in place in this type of case. As far as the description you gave of the pilot experience and the subsid to the commune is concerned, this does not seem very clear to me. I will probably come back to you with other questions. As much as I can understand the concept of pilot experience, I do not understand that we cannot ask for several offers. It doesn't make sense. Even if you go through other artifices, when you run a project on such amounts – when you know the major financial difficulties of the Molenbeek community, 100,000 euros represent a lot of money – you need clear rules and start the project with different associations. I do not understand the approach that was chosen. I do not understand that this choice is made unilaterally on a single actor. We'll go back to that. It's too important to be left in the blur.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u107	Minister, I find it difficult to understand the logic of your answer. Who is the authority that designates the association? I have read the royal decree on your project – which is a good project because the disengagement of radicalised young people is a priority – and at no time are we talking about this association. It is not designated by the federal authority. Is it the municipality of Molenbeek that designates this association? You claim that this association is known, that it has a long experience or real experience in the fight against radicalism. But when we look at the statutes of the association, we realize that it was just created on July 18th. I therefore wonder how it is possible to be experienced in the field without having carried out an action, a project, etc. There is a contradiction here. How can we claim that this association has an experience in an area in which, as you yourself have said, there is no approach that guarantees results at present? In addition, you said you wanted to work with an association that would be experienced in the field. I am surprised at this contradiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u108	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u109	Mr. Jambon, who's in charge of the ASBL? It is the Collège des Bourgmères et échevins de Molenbeek. Do you confirm that this is the municipality of Molenbeek?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u110	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u111	Perfect, Minister! If you take it this way, we'll come back with additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u112	Two further questions may be raised in view of the time limit. I myself put my questions to the House. 21061, No. 21062 and No. 21122 in written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u113	Mr Minister, your colleague in charge of Asylum and Migration has announced that he wants to 'clean' the Maximilian park in Brussels of hundreds of migrants who live there in a precarious and inhumane way. The situation on the ground, for having seen it with my own eyes, becomes invivable as the State and its services are absent in the management of this real humanitarian crisis. The President of the Human Rights League alerted public opinion by highlighting in various media the potential practices of the federal police towards the migrants in question. It denounces the planned and collective nature of raids with the establishment of quotas for migrants to be arrested. If this proves correct, these practices would be unworthy of a rule of law and of course contrary to respect for basic human rights. The principles of proportionality and non-discrimination would not be respected. Do you confirm that you have given the police clear and precise instructions on how to manage the presence of migrants in Maximilian Park and in Brussels more generally? What are they? Is there, or has there been in the past, daily quotas for the arrest of migrants in Maximilian Park? Finally, was a major raid planned by your services on September 21 to arrest 250 people at Maximilian Park?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u114	Mr Hellings, I have asked the police to avoid, by means of a structural, intensive and multidisciplinary approach, the permanent installation of transmigrants in the Maximilian Park and in the Brussels North station. As I have said on several occasions, there is no camp in our country! Not like in France! The services concerned are the local and federal police, the Office of Foreigners, the guardianship service of the justice system. As far as Maximilian Park is concerned, operational direction was provided by the local police in Brussels-Capital. In and around the Brussels-Nord railway station, operational direction was provided by the railway police and the Brussels-Nord police, each for their respective responsibilities. If the local police or SPC needed additional personnel and/or logistics from the federal police, they could request it via the DirCo. As far as your second question is concerned, you must dare ask it! Of course I have not imposed quotas on the number of people to be arrested. It's completely stupid to think the same way. Your third question concerns the operation of 21 September. A large operation was planned on 21 September, but in view of the success of the multidisciplinary approach, a large-scale operation was no longer required. For the sake of clarity, since no quota was imposed, the aim of this major action was not to arrest 250 people!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u115	Thank you for the clarity of the remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u116	Questions Nos 21061 and 21062 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen are converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u117	Minister, more than one in five flashlights on the main roads in Flanders are defective or unusable. It's about 300 of the 1 400 flashes. A reply to a written question from my Flemish colleague Renaat Landuyt to Minister Weyts shows that there is no complete overview of the causes of faults, nor of their impact on the speed limits and the estimated costs of repairing or recalibrateing the flash poles. AWV takes care of the installation and maintenance of the infrastructure. That's a Flemish jurisdiction. However, the use of cameras and the processing of infringements is a competence of the police, a federal authority. For the placement, maintenance, operation and prosecution of each installation, pursuant to the Royal Decree of 11 October 1997, agreements are laid down in a protocol between the parties concerned. It also includes agreements on reporting on their use. I quote from Minister Weyts' reply: "Despite many initiatives in the past, especially from the Enforcement Systems Working Group, there is so far no effective systematic reporting. Federal police are considering launching a purchase file to meet this. Minister Weyts' reply shows that an adequate follow-up to the operation of the safety cameras today is impossible and that everything will be solved through a purchase file. Mr. Secretary, what is the first thing about the purchase file? What will be purchased? Secondly, is there any mention of the federal police purchase file that Minister Weyts is talking about? Thirdly, how can you ensure, in the interests of road safety, that the speed cameras are properly monitored if there is no adequate follow-up? Fourthly, will you include the problem with your Flemish colleague, Minister Weyts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u118	Mrs Lambrecht, we have no knowledge of a purchase file that should ensure adequate monitoring of the operation of the safety cameras. At the moment, however, the federal police are investigating how we can optimise the current work processes for the identification of traffic breaches. One of the working processes that will be investigated is how we can improve the processing of the violations detected by flash camera dynamometers. Today, the integrated police uses various types of software, from different private firms, e.g. Tradelec and Myriade, to process the analogue and digital photos taken by the flash cameras. That external software should help in drawing up the minutes in the ISLP and Pol Office Traffic police systems. At the request of the local and federal police, it is currently being examined whether the current software used cannot be optimized to make processing even easier. On the basis of the ongoing analysis, this could eventually lead to the replacement of the current software used to process the data coming from the flash camera dynamometers. I cannot give you a guarantee about the proper functioning of the flashlights, as that is a Flemish competence. AWV is responsible for maintenance. The police can only report it to AWV in the event of a malfunction of a flash pole. The federal police do not keep statistical data on the operation of the flashlights but on the number of traffic offences detected by the flashlights. My Flemish colleague, Minister Weyts, is well aware of the problem. I am sure he will do everything in his power to find a solution to that problem. My services are always available to help, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u119	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I remember that I have to go to the Flemish minister with my questions about the purchase file and that I do not get an answer here at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic755x.u120	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 21, by Mr Brecht Vermeulen Mr Van Hecke's 21251 were converted into written questions.
