ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u1	Madam Minister, before the Easter recess, a whole series of oral questions were converted into written questions. We have still not received an answer to that. When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u2	I'll check it out. My cabinet clerk is still waiting for some answers. The administration also barely worked during the Easter recess. We have all forwarded these questions, but they must all be translated. Questions converted shall be answered in the language of the member or in the two languages. Answers to written questions are still to be translated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u3	In principle, yes, but wasn't there an agreement on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u4	Some 30 questions were on the agenda and turned into written questions. The answer is always in the language of the question. When questions are attached – and in this case there are many – the answer is written in both languages. When a question is turned into a written question, it must be translated into the language of the member who asked the question. In addition, it happened just before the Easter holidays. The administration was a little overworked and did not work much later. I'll ask my co-worker the question. At the moment, he is in my office because we still received more than thirty questions yesterday at 11:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u5	I understood that it had been agreed with the services that these questions did not need to be translated, but could be delivered directly. That was exactly the condition, but we will still be patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u6	Madam Minister, the figures you gave in reply to a previous question I asked about the supply of general practitioners in the Kempen and their degree of deconventionationationationationation question that I submitted in response to an article in the Doctor's Newspaper that talks about a deficit in our region, which is far from practical. Neither the figures on the number of doctors nor those on their degree of deconvention are correct. Let me give you a concrete example. According to the figures that I received from your services, there would be 20 general practitioners working in Vosselaar. That number has never even been there in recent years, let alone half of it. Hence my questions. Are your figures based on the recent dynamic register for doctors and general practitioners? If that is not the case, it would explain why there are still errors in the figures. In any case, there is a difference of more than half in the case of Vosselaar. How do you explain the difference in figures with the situation in practice? Are company doctors included? What is the methodology? How do we get these figures at the moment? An additional major deficiency is that it was counted on the basis of the correspondence address and not the doctor's work address. Why aren't those data collected? It seems to me as a scientist that a column can easily be added to the database containing that data. It is essential to know where our caregivers are working. Is the working address of the doctors and general practitioners included in the dynamic register?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u7	My answer is also a supplement to the question you submitted on 4 November 2015 and was published under K0543. In connection with the methodology, the RIZIV currently takes into account for its convention statistics all doctors that are identified as active in its databases. So this is about doctors, but also about doctors in training who are allowed to write regulations. So they can also be found in the figures on the region in question, where they can have their place of residence. A much more detailed analysis of the activity profile of doctors in the Kempen can be found in the answer given last autumn with columns to your question K0543, which was also published. In addition, a project is under way at the RIZIV to systematically collect and register the practical addresses of the healthcare providers. The switch from home address to practical address will only take place when everyone has the practical address. Once the RIZIV has a complete and up-to-date file, these practice addresses will be used instead of contact addresses for statistical purposes. The Planning Committee was faced with the same problem. It does not have the practical addresses and therefore it has had to deal with the home addresses of doctors, who are not always in the same province, let alone in the same country. Once all these data have been collected, the Planning Committee will also use the practical addresses. So we are dealing with it; the issue is being taken seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u8	Madam Minister, although my question was indeed in line with a previous written question, it continued on the methodology. It is true that you had already provided some information on the methodology in that reply. For example, you had already mentioned that the HAIOS are also included. But even then the number for Vosselaar is wrong. There are no 15 HAIOS working there. I hope that this can be put even further to the point and that it is counted on the basis of the work address, because that seems to me to be the cause. I certainly welcome the project you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u9	Madam President, Minister, since May 2016, there has been a shortage of tetanus vaccines for children aged 5 to 7, particularly in the "official" circuit. Originally scheduled for January 2017, the return of doses in pharmacy has now been postponed to September 2017. As a result, many patients have been unable or will not be able to receive their tetanus vaccination boosters in time and are or will be forced to repeat their entire vaccination journey. The origin of this shortage would be due to a stock shortage among suppliers of the product in the summer of 2016. Since then, pharmacists have been unable to obtain the famous vaccine. The anxiety of patients and parents is easily understood. They should therefore be provided with a quick and lasting solution. This does not seem to be the first time such a shortage has occurred for this type of vaccine. Minister, what solution are you considering to put an end to this shortage? When can this problem be resolved? In the event of a contraction of the disease by the child, who would shoulder the responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u10	Mrs Özen, thank you for your question. Sanofi Pasteur Europe, and in particular the French manufacturer, has problems manufacturing the Tetravac vaccine for vaccination. It is a booster dose for children aged 5 to 7 years against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and poliomyelitis. This is a technical problem relating to the quality control of the medicinal product leading to a considerable increase in its production time. This production problem affects all European countries and the doses produced must therefore be distributed among the different countries, which explains the limited availability of the vaccine. With a view to remedying the temporary unavailability on the Belgian market, the firm Sanofi Pasteur has obtained from AFMPS, since May 2015, several derogations for the import and distribution in Belgium of an alternative vaccine: acellular Tetravac and Tetraxim originally intended for other European markets. These vaccines imported in limited quantities are reserved for use by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Flemish Community as part of the ONE and Kind en Gezin vaccination programme. These imported vaccines are identical to the Belgian Tetravac in terms of their antigenic content and excipient content. The firm is making every effort, in collaboration with the French authorities, to solve the problem as quickly as possible and to return to a normal supply of all European markets. Please also note that there are other vaccines licensed and marketed in Belgium that combine tetanus vaccination with other vaccinations such as diphtheria, pertussis and poliomyelitis. The Higher Council of Health recommends a catch-up vaccination against tetanus and anti-diphtheria, whether or not associated with pertussis and/or poliomyelitis, depending on the age and primary vaccination received. The various catch-up vaccines currently available in Belgium are: tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis vaccine, GlaxoSmithKline Boostrix indicated from four years old, tetanus, diphtheria and polio vaccine, Sanofi Revaxis indicated from six years old, and tetanus and diphtheria vaccine, Tedivax pro Adulto, also GlaxoSmithKline, which is indicated from seven years old. We have four or five similar vaccines. As long as Sanofi needs to restore their production as before, I think we need to take these vaccines. They are available in Belgium. There's enough. There is no problem with tetanus vaccination in Belgium. Your information may be useful, but normally we have taken all necessary steps to avoid a shortage. The problem is in France in their line of production but their distribution takes place throughout Europe. We have taken even more action than others. There are four vaccines that are also effective and we have given a derogation for the import and distribution in Belgium of the two alternative vaccines, in surplus. The other vaccines must therefore be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u11	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that this is a production problem which has affected Belgium, like other European countries. Still, some people have not been able to obtain this vaccine. On the other hand, patients have not been informed by their doctor of the existence of these famous alternative products. This resulted in additional costs. Indeed, some people have followed the normal process by going to their attending physician to whom they have had to pay for the consultation to receive a prescription. And three months later, as the vaccine was not yet available, they were forced to go and see him a second time. I am pleased to learn that there is an alternative vaccine as well as a "rattraping" vaccine for those who have not been vaccinated in time. But who pays for this vaccine?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u12	Normally, in case of storage problems, doctors are informed by the AFMPS. There's a website. In addition, the pharmacist can also inform his clients. When there are six alternatives, I don't see why the patient still has to wait three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u13	In this case, the information did not go well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u14	I have already said on several occasions that they are health professionals and that they must be able to learn about alternatives for the protection of the patient. It is important that children receive their reminders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u15	I will of course pass on the information. However, in the end, it is the patients, in this case the children, who suffer from the situation, not to mention that it costs them more because the professionals did not do their job. This kind of situation should not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u16	Madam Minister, before we go any further, I would like to ask you about the state of affairs regarding questions that were converted into written questions before Easter recess. The replies have not yet been sent to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u17	There has indeed been a problem to deal with these many questions. The person who had to collect the questions is absent for a week because of his father's death. No one else can take over his job because this is a fairly complicated matter. It'll be for next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u18	Okay, we'll write that down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u19	Mrs. Heeren isn't here and hasn't said a word. Then her question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u20	Madam President, Minister, in 2015, 998 organ transplants were carried out in Belgium, 150 more than in the previous year. This rate of increase is the result of efforts by various actors to increase awareness of organ donation, as is the case with national campaigns organised by the public health services of the SPF or through the various activities undertaken on a daily basis by transplant coordinators, donor family associations and transplanted patient associations. However, while encouraging, this rate remains insufficient. As of December 31, 2015, 1,288 patients were still registered for transplantation in our country. Of these, 112 patients are estimated to have died, were waiting for transplants or were removed from the waiting list for medical reasons. It is therefore imperative to continue the efforts undertaken so far. Minister, can you provide us with the updated status of organ donation? What measures, in synergy with other levels of power, are adopted to inform, raise awareness and encourage the general public to register as a potential donor? With regard to the financial costs that may be imposed on a donor despite the intervention of compulsory health care insurance, the Government has already taken strong measures to limit its scope. However, are additional measures envisaged? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u21	Mr Calomne, in 2017, just over 710 potential donors were referred to the referral centre. Of these, 321 were taken. This represents 28.4 donors per million inhabitants. Although insufficient to meet the many demands, this figure nevertheless brings our country to the top of the European rankings in terms of organ removal. The non-collection of organs in some potential donors is due, for 35 per cent, to medical contraindications motivated by poor organ quality or the high age of donors; for 13 per cent, to the refusal of families, which, moreover, demonstrates the need to continue public awareness campaigns; for 1.5 per cent, to refusals in the national register – those who hesitate first and then register their refusal – and, for 1 per cent, to refusals from the judiciary due to a suspicious death. The numbers for waiting lists (transplantation and death) are shown in the tables that I will forward to you. The total recorded is 1,250. There were 69 and 118 transplants, while approximately 107 deaths were recorded on the lists. There is therefore a variation between the tables. Finally, it should also be noted, as the figures above indicate, that the number of live donors is increasing. For the liver, for 2015 there were 57 and for this year there are 67. In terms of kidneys, there were 33 in 2015 and 46 in 2016. The increase is therefore patent. Numerous collaborations exist between the Public Health FPS and various bodies, such as the Communities, Regions, cities and municipalities. For several years, a wide-ranging awareness-raising campaign has been carried out in the framework of the communal and regional elections. The municipalities were invited to allow citizens to demonstrate their willingness to donate organs by going to the polls. The name of this action was "I vote for life". These actions are increasingly successful in all regions of the country. At the end of this month, in Wallonia, the "Télédon" campaign will take place, which I support. Last year, as a result of this action, a large number of people registered in the municipalities. This year, the campaign will take place with even more municipalities. I hope the success will be on the rendezvous. Most recently, a decree was adopted in Wallonia providing that municipalities must ensure the presence of a communal agent in order to record any statements or oppositions relating to organ donations in all elections. In view of the upcoming municipal elections, close cooperation between the federal administration and the Wallonia Public Service is taking place. My administration is also taking initiatives to invite the Brussels and Flemish municipalities to join the action "I vote for life", as in the elections in 2014. From now on, in the case of a deceased donor, no costs are borne by his or her relatives. For living donors, a new royal decree will be issued in the coming weeks. It provides for the exemption of the donor from the user ticket for all services performed in the year following the hospitalisation for the donation, as well as for clinical and radiological biology consultations and services up to the tenth year following the donation, whether related to the collection or not. Compatibility is obviously essential for the donation to take place. As with all actions, I think they must be repeated constantly and, as was done with the Teledon action, it is important to broaden the scope. A campaign, if it operates in one municipality, could be relayed to another municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u22	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and detailed response. I have taken note of the figures you are referring to. Although we can be happy to be among the best donors at European level, the number of donors is still very low. Twenty-eight donors per million inhabitants, however, are at odds with the large number of applicants on hold. As you said, it requires an effort on the part of all. I am pleased to learn that there is a very strong link with the municipalities. Local entities can act as relays and we can rely on them in this area. It is important that local authorities be involved in such efforts. I also take note of the new royal decree you mentioned. It is important to work in this direction. Governments also play an important role in addressing this fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u23	Minister, at the end of 2016, a Belgian survey suggests that 50% of Belgians over the age of 45 could suffer from diabetes within 10 years. Currently, almost 600,000 Belgians suffer from type Il diabetes. This diabetes has many complications: hypertension, cardiovascular disease, loss of sight, problems with the feet, kidney failure. It can also impact the person's sexuality as a result of nervous system problems. Some of these consequences seem to be less known or ignored and that is why, Madam Minister, I would like to know the current situation of type II diabetes in Belgium and the means of accompaniment and information available to patients. How many people in Belgium suffer from type I diabetes? What are the main complications in these individuals? In recent years, how many people have clearly experienced disturbances as a result of Il-type diabetes? How is diabetes of this type treated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u24	Ms Jadin, the most reliable source to know the number of diabetic patients in Belgium is the INAMI Pharmanet database. Pharmanet collects, by prescriber, data on reimbursed medicines issued by public pharmacies. According to Pharmanet, in 2015, 560,000 patients received drug therapy for diabetes with at least 80 Defined Daily Doses (DDD). Pharmanet data do not differentiate between type I and type II diabetic patients. The Scientific Institute of Public Health estimates that there are approximately 300,000 type I diabetic patients. Stone & al.'s 2013 "GUIDANCE" study. conducted with 65 Belgian general practitioners in 2009-2010 can provide data on the prevalence of chronic complications. The study examined the case of 1,044 people with type II diabetes. The average age was 70 years; 51% of patients were male. The average duration of diabetes was 7 years and 19% of patients were treated with insulin. It is type II diabetes that is also treated with insulins, often in the evening. What complications have we found? Ischemic heart disease (18%), congestive heart failure (nearly 7%), stroke (nearly 9%), peripheral arterial disease (10%), blindness (0.7%), end-stage renal failure (more than 1%), foot ulcer (2.7%) and amputation of a toe or limb (nearly 1%). I'll give you the numbers. A total of 28.5% of patients had cardiovascular complications and patients with type II diabetes were informed of the consequences of their type II diabetes through education. Education implies that general practitioners, diabetics, home nurses and other providers constantly provide information and explanations about the disease, the food aspects, the complications, the consequences on life expectancy and encourage a change in lifestyle. Sexual disturbances following diabetes can be integrated. This education can be supplemented by a diabetes educator who has received specific training. The education provided by a diabetes educator is refundable for a large part of the patients enrolled in a diabetes management program. Currently, there are several treatment programmes in the health insurance system for diabetic patients: the conventions, the path of type II diabetes care and the follow-up of a diabetic patient and, in the last few months, the pre-diabetes journey has been in place. The "diabetes conventions" are for patients with type I diabetes and patients in advanced stage of type II diabetes treated with two or more insulin injections. Patients are monitored in a second-line diabetes convention centre by a multidisciplinary team and receive diabetes education, dietetics, self-management equipment, and podology for at-risk groups. The treatment route for type II diabetes is for patients with type II diabetes treated with one or two insulin injections and those for whom treatment with insulin is envisaged. The primary focus of care is on the front line: the general practitioner and specialist work closely with other front-line professionals. Patients have access to diabetes education, self-management equipment, dietetics and podology. The follow-up of a diabetic patient in a pre-trajection is for patients with type II diabetes at an earlier stage, from diagnosis to treatment route or convention. The general practitioner provides adequate care based on good practice recommendations (evidence based) and patients have access to dietetics and podology. In the near future, a subgroup of patients with high cardiovascular risk will also have access to diabetes education. I have indeed released a budget to that effect. In each of these programs, the general practitioner or diabetes physician can also take care of the patient's sexual disturbances. If necessary, they can send the patient to another specialist. It has to be said that in most cases disruptions are found in men with diabetes and that it is often vascular problems that are most frequently found. Sometimes they must also be sent to a sexologist or urologist. If it's vascular, we can't do much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for all this very comprehensive and detailed information that I will reread with great interest, as it will also be the subject of a very interesting communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u26	Madam Secretary, I will keep my introduction brief. We all know that the training of general practitioners in our country has been shifted from two to three years, because one year of basic training is transferred to further training. This has to do with European directives and with a procedure for the Council of State, but that is not the point. We are preparing the three-year course in general medicine. Also in the context of the double cohort coming towards us in 2018, there would be an intention to reduce the three-year training by six months. The intention was that the three-year training course would also include a half-year hospital placement, but now we hear that it was also stated in De Doctors' Newspaper that there would be several reasons for reducing its duration, such as an additional saving on expenditure, a shortage of traineeships and the funding that would go on in a different way. Is that right, Madam Secretary? I would have liked to have heard from you. Is it true that the programme will only last 2.5 years from 2018 instead of 3 years? If so, what are the reasons for that decision? If so, how will you ensure that there is no discrimination for which we have previously been convicted if the duration of the training is adjusted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u27	Madam President, Minister, it is indeed not easy to deal with the double cohort doctors in 2018 and to deal with them properly. Everyone agrees that all these doctors should be internships and this may require extra capacity and extra budget from the minister. As Mrs Muylle has already said, we are told that the six-month compulsory hospital placement during the Master's degree after Master's in Pediatrics might be cancelled and replaced by the hospital placement during the Bachelor's Bachelor's course. Like the training doctors, I believe that this will benefit neither the doctors in training nor the quality of future general practitioners. There are indeed a number of legal and pragmatic arguments not to shorten the Master's degree in Pediatrics from three to two and a half years. We are currently in an exceptional situation in Europe. That's not obvious. It is also not evident with regard to the specialists who see that there is also a difference in internship. The Visitation Committee and the Flemish Minister of Education also confirm that hospitalisation during basic training cannot be equated with that during the Master's degree after Master's in Pediatrics because the learning goals are completely different. What is the motive behind your proposal? Do you want to introduce a saving measure as published in the media? You asked for an opinion from the Supreme Health Council. According to my information, you've already received twice a negative opinion. Can you give us those advices? The Belgian Association of Doctoral Syndicates (BVAS) and the Federation of Belgian Professional Associations of Doctoral Specialists (VBS) have also already filed a complaint with the Council of State about the unequal treatment between candidate hospital doctors and candidate specialists. If you exempt the general practitioners from six months in hospital, the specialists will probably not fail to recomplain for discrimination. How are you going to avoid that? In all training courses there is a great deal of emphasis on traineeships. This is also very important in medical education. Now we're going to reduce it with the general practitioners, which will lead to less experience. That is absolutely contrary to what the GP practice trainers are asking for today. One last question. Is there no risk that GPs from Belgium will no longer be recognised at European level, which will cause problems for our graduates? It appears that there are already problems in Denmark where the diploma of a Belgian general practitioner for the duration of training and because of the internship is apparently no longer satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u28	I have a detailed answer, but many questions have also been asked. I'd like to give some explanation for this. Two problems are being mixed up here. On the one hand, there is the reduction in the duration of basic medical studies from seven to six years. The result is that in 2018 they have the so-called double cohort outflow of PhD students in medicine. For these students, sufficient internship capacity should be effectively provided, both for the general practitioners in training and for the specialists. Accompanying measures must therefore be taken to achieve a sufficient number of placements so that both cohorts can take up the professional traineeships. At the same time, we must also ensure that the quality of these traineeships is guaranteed and that both types of doctors are followed equally well. In December, I submitted several ideas on the approach for advice to the Supreme Council of Medical Specialists and GPs. On 23 February, the Council issued a comprehensive opinion which contains a number of comments and is in the meantime being examined by the RIZIV. It contains both beneficial and avoidable effects. So it's a bit crazy when you say that this is a negative advice. One of the issues examined is indeed that in the crucial year 2018, the flexibility will end with the Article 16 of the Ministerial Decision of 1 March 2010 laying down the criteria for the recognition of general practitioners. Article 16 applies the still applicable and possible derogation from Article 28.2 of the European Directive. This allows a year of the previous prior training cycle to be valorised as a professional internship under certain conditions. Until 2018, Belgium applies this derogation in the relevant Ministerial Decree where the end date is also 2018. After a long debate, the Supreme Council of Doctors-Specialists and GPs has given various opinions on the reception of the double cohort. The opinion was given on 23 February, was validated on 23 March and is, Mrs. Dedry, on the website of the FPS Public Health. In any case, I note that the Supreme Court upholds the principle of a three-year supplementary training in general medical practice, following initial training. I also note that there is concern among certain members of the Supreme Court and this concern concerns those general practitioners in training who do not find internships in a hospital in their internship plan and are therefore not eligible for recognition. This situation needs to be taken into account, because these are people who risk not being recognised after nine years of training. I believe that we agree that this concern we share was also taken into account by the Supreme Court. From the influx of the double cohort, the internships in hospitals will also see a large additional influx, with additional candidate specialists in training. It cannot be ruled out that there will be competition between the general practitioners in training and the specialists in training. The internships will then have to choose and perhaps give priority to candidates who can engage in longer training in a particular medical discipline rather than the limited six months for the candidate hospital doctors. The question can be asked whether, in such a context, these hospital placements can be very educational for the candidate hospital doctors, because there will be an overcrowding on certain services, which might make it more difficult to have an adequate professional exhibition of pathology, sound supervision and supervision. I also hear from the students that there is a fear that the general practitioner students in training will be diverted to other tasks, such as registration of data or other administrative tasks. They themselves are afraid that, even if they are allowed to do their internship, they will be reversed for the benefit of those who specialize. That seems to me to be a justified fear. In addition, it seems appropriate to avoid that a candidate household doctor would not be able to end his professional training due to a shortage of internships in hospitals. The lack of a practical training plan or recognition must certainly be avoided in the interests of the candidate but also in general: our public health needs sufficient general practitioners. I naturally share the view that recognised general practitioners must meet all the requirements of the European Directive 2005/36, which guarantees euro mobility so that certain doctors in other Member States of the European Union can develop a professional career. You also refer to a previous judgment of the Council of State, No 166/915 of 2007 on the Ministerial Decree of 1 October 2002, which allowed the doctor to start his professional training from the end of his sixth year of medicine. The Council of State considered that there was no objective and reasonable justification for any other treatment for general practitioners and specialists on the basis of a reasonable distinction between the two situations. The contested decision is no longer in force either, and the conditions of recognition for general practitioners, internships and internships are now governed by the Ministerial Decision of 1 March 2010. This ministerial decision and the amendments have not been challenged. Article 16 of the current Ministerial Decision of 1 March 2010 allows the valorisation of one year of the previous training cycle in accordance with Article 28 of the 2005 Directive. In principle, I remain in favour of a three-year professional internship, especially now that the basic training of doctors has been reduced to 6 years. I analyse with the services the opinion of the Supreme Court on this matter on the substance, including all the concerns raised in the discussions. As has already been said, there is still a problem in the context of the double cohort over the next three to six years. It is from the concerns of the dual cohort candidates and for the sake of public health that all possible solutions need to be examined, without too easy a priori or veto dressings. We must therefore approach the problem pragmatically within the framework of European legislation and taking into account the reality of an additional need for places for hospital placements. You know that there are three times as many in the French-speaking part of the country as in the Dutch-speaking part of the country. Practically this means that I, together with the legal service of the FPS, consider whether a temporary and exceptional measure is possible to take the hospital internship during the initial training, even after 2018. In any case, this must have an extinct character and can only be for the duration of the reception of the double outflow. In the meantime, the internships must ensure that the practical experience is optimal in order to carry out general medical practice autonomously later on. I would like to add that discussions are being held with the deans of the Faculty of Medicine. These discussions are very intensive. It is also an important problem due to two factions coming together, but to which neither one group of students nor the other have contributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u29	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. It's clearer to me now. You're right. There is a tension between the three-year internship you are in favour of and the number of internships in hospitals. I believe that everyone today sees the importance of a hospital placement as part of a further training for general practitioners. Moreover, I think it is a good thing that general practitioners come more into hospitals, especially in the context of a follow-up period. However, if one cannot guarantee the quality of good placements, of quality training, this is also a major problem. However, I have the impression that great efforts are being made in the context of the double cohort in hospitals, where many peripheral hospitals are looking for new internships. I see a very positive evolution in that, but I understand that tension field. I agree with your decision that there should be a good qualitative transition period. In view of the deafening nature, at some point, when that double cohort is eliminated, we will be able to go in full for those places. I think you're following the right strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u30	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. You have made it clear that you are aware of the problem and that there is sometimes no alternative but to seek a pragmatic solution. You are trying to look for good qualitative transitional measures, but I would just like to point out that the learning goals in a bachelor's internship are completely different from the learning goals in the general practitioner's programme for master's after master's. There is a great deal of concern in the workplace, but you know that as well as I do. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u31	I mentioned the deans, but of course we also receive the student representatives. I talked to them this week. They are very concerned on both sides of the language border, especially in the French-speaking part of the country. The students are also kept informed about the slopes that are on the table and we invite the deans to put other slopes on the table. We're still waiting for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u32	In principle, Members always have the last word, but I think this was only a supplement and therefore there is no need for a reply, Mrs Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u33	Madam Secretary, I do not have to ask you about the timing, because it is fixed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u34	Madam President, Minister, you are currently working on the reform of the hospital landscape with a view to improving and improving the efficiency of services. You go for 25 networks, where the tasks can be shared between the hospitals. There is also the problem of supplements that are charged to patients and that may vary from hospital to hospital. If hospitals are merged into one network, the question arises as to what this would mean for doctors' fees. I would like to have your opinion on two points. Firstly, if patients are taken to a hospital with an ambulance where a particular specialty is offered, but this is not the nearest hospital, will the ambulance ride become more expensive for the patient? Will, as a result of specializing, the patient eventually have to pay more for transport? Secondly, what will happen to the supplements? What choice will be made in the network? Is the most expensive supplement automatically selected for the entire network? In what way will this be arranged? Will you give instructions on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u35	Madam President, acknowledge that this is a paradox: my neighbour is cold, the minister is cold, I could be cold in the Federal Parliament's Health Committee! It's still amazing. Minister, I have asked you several times about maternity and paediatrics. Some questions remained unanswered. I'm coming back to you about that. You certainly have the information: finally, Lobbes' maternity will not close its doors. According to answers I have received from your office, it appears that the federal measures will not apply to the Lobbes site itself, but to the Jolimont-Lobbes group, which has the same accreditation number. Together, they represent more than 1,000 births per year. The motherhood of Nivelles, which has a different approval number, is not in the same case: it remains severely affected. You have, on several occasions, pointed out that decisions to close certain maternity wards are the responsibility of the management of the hospital groups, which is the case. However, it is, as you can see, the future standards that create fears for the hospital sector. And as you have also pointed out on several occasions, nothing is decided on this: discussions are under way. However, it is important that the actors on the ground do not find themselves at the foot of the wall and are informed of the progress and, of course, of the content of the discussions under way, because it is also these announced and unspecified measures which, despite you, I am sure, cause a wind of panic among hospital managers. Minister, to clarify the situation now, what specific measures do you intend to put in place in the future with respect to these services? What level of activity do you plan to impose on these services? You said you were waiting for the first interim evaluation of seven pilot projects related to short-term hospital deliveries. What about it? When do you plan to implement these measures? How do these measures fit into the network logic you want to set up? Will the minimum threshold apply to individual establishments, or to the network itself? Are you planning a transitional period between the implementation of these networks and the standards you want to implement? How will the issue of accessibility be taken into account in your reform? Do you intend to do what is necessary to preserve the hospital care that is essential in the most rural areas of our country? Are the social partners, representatives of actors on the ground, involved in the ongoing discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u36	Mr Demon, Mr Blanchart, in the context of the reform of urgent medical care, the principle will be introduced that the means of transport of urgent medical care must transport the patient to the most appropriate place for care, rather than to the fastest place for assistance, for a limited, fixed amount, regardless of distance. So we want to arrive at a single rate, regardless of the distance from the movement, knowing that we must respect the time within which the patient must get into hospital in the context of urgent medical care. It runs from zero, which is actually not possible, to 15 minutes. That means that the patient will no longer be taken to the nearest emergency service. However, in the nearest hospital it is not possible to treat the patient there, after which they must be transported again to another hospital. In addition, this is now happening at the expense of patients. As it is now, this second transport is entirely at the expense of the patient. If a patient is transported with a CVA to the nearest hospital, which is partly reimbursed, and if they say that the Neurology department is not sufficiently developed to treat or monitor the patient or that there is no adapted crew to care for the patient, then he is transported to a larger, more equipped hospital and has to pay for the transport himself. That's hard to explain to a patient. The Federal Government is only responsible for the rates of urgent medical assistance and not for the rates of non-urgent medical assistance. You were talking about a patient who needs to be transported to a specialist. I assume that this is a consultation and therefore non-urgent medical assistance. It is the regions that set the rates for this. Compulsory medical care insurance only benefits in a certain number of cases in transport costs. There is, among other things, compensation for the transport costs of prematures, dialysis patients, cancer patients, parents of children suffering from cancer and patients being transported in the context of urgent medical care. The reform of the hospital landscape will in itself not change the current rules on supplements. In the future, every hospital will continue to bill itself. The supplement scheme, applicable in the hospital concerned, as is currently the case, therefore continues to apply. I do not want to avoid the discussion on supplements, but I believe that we should not let this difficult discussion, which is also being held in the Medicomut and other consultative bodies, contaminate the present reform of the hospital landscape. As far as maternity is concerned, I would like to wait until I have the input that I have asked the KCE before deciding on a possible adaptation of the activity standards that have existed since 1989. It was my predecessor, Minister Busquin, who set the standards for maternity. However, I have already indicated that the funding of a 24-hour, 7-day-a-week permanence for a maternity which, on average, does not have one delivery per day seems to me to be an inefficient expenditure of public funds. For this reason, it is also not desirable to set standards of activity by network to distribute the number of births between several hospitals in the network. As I pointed out, standards have existed since 1989. Today, we are in 2017 and there are still many maternity wards that provide 230, 200 and even 189 births per year. All this time, these standards have not been met. It goes without saying that the reform will not take place overnight. The sector will be consulted and will have time to adapt to the changes. In addition, it has been less than a year since the pilot project on short-stay deliveries was under way. It will be evaluated for the first time after the summer. Finally, I would like to say a word about accessibility. Be aware that community care is not a guarantee of quality care. If the conclusion is that it is better to go to a hospital a little further away for treatment, I think the patient should be quite willing to make the move. Of course, there is always a need for a basic offer at the local level, but the difficulty is precisely to define this offer. Opinions differ, but I continue to rely on the evidence and the objective of improving the quality of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u37	Madam Minister, with regard to the most appropriate place of care, I understand that the further development of non-urgent transport is for the regions. The financial part belongs to us. How's that gonna happen? After all, the resources come from here. How does that happen for the patient? The patient's going to hospital X that's closer. He's gonna end up in the network. He needs to go to hospital Y for a specialty. Will transport become more expensive if that hospital is located further away? Or is there also a forfait as with the urgent cases? Honorary supplements are also directly related to this. You say you don't want to contaminate the plan. For the record, we are in favour of a plan for hospital networks, but you say that you do not want to overburden the cart with the cost of the supplements. It'll have consequences automatically, won't it? Supplements cannot be expected to be the most expensive when entering a network. Is this to be discussed during the negotiations or is this subject being pushed aside, which means that there is a risk that the most expensive invoice will be issued?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u38	Minister, everyone is aware that there is a need for hospital reform. However, with regard to the decisions to be taken for specialization, they are probably premature because hospitals still need to specialize in order for reference centres to be established. But it is a fact that the basic offer must be maintained in each of them. You mentioned earlier the time limits for intervention between zero and fifteen minutes, but in some regions the time limit for intervention far exceeds twenty minutes to go to the home and then to a hospital which is sometimes very far away; I am thinking of the border areas for which it is complicated. This is the case with Lobbes' maternity; it has already been mentioned. There is a real need to take into account the problem of response times.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u39	Mr Demon, you must make a difference between the urgent medical aid that will be cheaper through reform and non-urgent medical aid. People need information about which specialist works where. It is not intended that the ambulance should always be carried under non-urgent sickness services. The rates are a competence of the Communities. The federal government has nothing to say about that. It is not intended that a person who is in a hospital and who has to consult with non-urgent medical services should always be transported by ambulance. As far as the Supplements to Honorary Wage are concerned, I have said that there is no change in payments as far as performance in the respective hospitals is concerned. At the beginning of next year, we will begin to reward the lowest variability on a flat-rate basis. At the moment, the hospital continues to draw up the invoice as it used to. We cannot have the debate on the Supplements of Honor at that level. Since the wage supplements are contained in the Medicomut agreement, other consultative bodies have a say in this matter. We are not avoiding this discussion. On the contrary, she's in full swing. You say that if you are provided in one of the five hospitals in the network and you consult an orthopedist, for example, you have to pay for the supplement of the most expensive hospital in that network. Well, that's impossible. One will get the bill from the hospital that is being consulted and not from another hospital. The hospitals themselves remain responsible for the bills they send to the patients who were cared for there. In the long term, some benefits will be reimbursed at the level of the network. Then the question is how this will be divided between hospitals. That is another exercise we are doing at the moment. Let me give you an example. If one has a CT taken into a network of five hospitals, then it does not matter whether one was referred to it by A, B or C because the rate for the network function, in this case a CT, will be the same. For that performance in that network there will be only one reward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u40	Madam President, Minister, as every year, the Tobacco Control Scale ranking was presented at the European Conference on Tobacco or Health on March 23, 2017. It is a reference in this area. Belgium is down significantly from 13th place in 2013 to 17th place in 2017 and, above all, it scores 49 out of 100 points for its anti-tobacco policy. Let me tell you that I was not surprised. Until a few years ago, Belgium was rather a leader in decision-making and binding legislation on tobacco. This is no longer the case in recent years. I therefore insist, Madam Minister, that you finally measure the stakes that this represents. Given the current passivity of binding regulations on tobacco, I would like once again to plead for the rapid introduction of the neutral package - not in 2019 or later on the basis of analyses, etc., as you obviously seem to want to do - for the total ban on advertising, i.e. the removal of the exceptions that still exist, and for the ban on smoking in cars in the presence of minors. These three measures would enable Belgium to reach the average. This is a major issue. What interests me is not so much the ranking, but it is above all the young people for whom every effort must be made to prevent them from starting to smoke. More generally, these are also health issues: 15,000 preventable premature deaths per year, 300,000 people - previously referred to as diabetes - with cardiovascular, bronchopulmonary and cancerous diseases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u41	Madam Minister, as Mr Fonck said, Belgium has fallen from 13th place in 2013 to 17th place in 2016 according to Tobacco Control Scale 2016. That reputational ranking report assesses the state of anti-tobacco policy in 35 European countries and was recently proposed. The best-scoring countries are performing strongly through the implementation of a comprehensive anti-tobacco plan, which is lacking in Belgium. However, we are convinced that the tide can be reversed. The support has never been greater to implement a number of measures without delay. The Tobacco Control Scale proposes ten recommendations to be implemented for the next conference in 2020. These recommendations, Madam Minister, have been on the table for much longer than today in the form of legislative proposals and resolutions in Parliament. These include the introduction of neutral cigarette packages, coupled with a total ban on advertising at the place of sale, and the prohibition of smoking in cars with minors. These measures are supported not only in parliament but in society as a whole, and yet they are not translated into practice. Have you taken note of TCS' report? I'm assuming so. Will you translate the TCS recommendations into concrete measures? If so, how long do you hope to do so? If not, why not? In short, Madam Minister, when are you going to carry out an anti-tobacco plan? That's actually my most important question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u42	Dear colleagues, thank you. I read the report. One of the two people who delivered it is well known; it is the Belgian, Mr. Luk Joossens. It shows that every policy, including an anti-tobacco policy, must be pursued over the years. The so-called top countries have also been at the top for a long time. The measures in the federal tobacco plan are seen as effective initiatives. But with other measures, we are going backwards. For example, budgets for prevention at Community level have been reduced. This gives us fewer points for prevention. Mrs Jiroflée, a tobacco plan with the Communities has been under discussion for ten years. I have put the issue on the agenda of the Inter-Ministerial Conference twice. Again and again the Communities make proposals which should be implemented at federal level thanks to federal investment, while the federal policy level already invests much more in this area than the Communities. I am all the more convinced that the implementation of the anti-smoking plan will enable our country to move forward in the international rankings. I will certainly carry out my part of the anti-tobacco policy. I have already implemented measures and I am working on others. Mr Vandeurzen has said that he will also do his part; the ministers responsible for Brussels have said so, just like the French-speaking ministers. We do not really have a full plan, but there are plenty of actions on the table. I believe that the increase in accessibility and reimbursement of withdrawal medicines will bring results, as will the increase in excise duties and the more effective application of excise duties, as well as the possibility of developing neutral packaging. For other measures such as the elimination of menthol in cigarettes, applications were made to the European Commission. So there's a lot on the table, there's a lot in progress. The most important thing is that each person in his field does the work for which he himself has a budget, in which he can find himself. For the rest, I refer to the parliamentary initiatives in your assembly. The government has said that it leaves it to Parliament's wisdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u43	Madam Minister, you mentioned Luk Joossens, which is the internationally recognized Belgian reference. As far as cost is concerned, it is true that progress has been made, but this is still insufficient, since tobacco consumption can be reduced by the sufficiently large leverage effect of the tiers. If the government could make more courageous and repeated decisions in this area, I think we would be more effective. With regard to the neutral package, the complete ban on advertising, etc., you tell us that many other things are planned and being carried out. When you talk about a neutral package, you talk about "considering". It's always very light and we see that you're acting only because you're pushed in the back. The sector does not want it, and that is why you have postponed this matter to the end of the legislature. I take note of your remarks: you say that Parliament can take the hand! You know that texts are being tabled. The text concerning the neutral package could have already been voted on for two years. This would have left an adjustment time of six months to one year. Today, it would be done. On the ban on advertising, the text could have been voted on, and that would be done today! I therefore turn to the parliamentary colleagues of the majority, since the minister refers to the responsibility of parliamentarians. I hope that those who, in terms of communication, have the courage to take a stand against tobacco, will have the courage to act in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u44	Madam Secretary, I have about the same message. I am aware that the Communities have already dared to refer to the federal level of policy. As a federal minister, you must take the lead and show that you are serious and that you want to move forward in this area. You must be exemplary and lead the way and, with my apologies, I do not see you doing so for the time being. You say that there are a number of things in progress or ready, but I do not really hear a term. If we look at the proposals that have already been on the agenda in our committee, there are always reasons to push them back or postpone them. We just have to set the plan up and run it! Why is that so difficult and does the anti-tobacco policy remain? I understand you won't give me a term, but we'll keep coming back to that. I hope that we will get all the proposals back on the agenda very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u45	We also held hearings before the Easter holidays. Logically, we should schedule further work and decide on the texts tabled. We are not going to wait another whole year while the texts are here. We need to take action on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to my information, an opinion of the Medical Supply Planning Commission asks that the medical quota for the years 2023 to 2026 should not be divided into 60% for Dutch-speaking and 40% for French-speaking people, but should be divided into 58% for the former and 42% for the latter. This represents 838 doctors in the Flemish Community and 607 in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, i.e. 1,445 in total. On March 23, you indicated that you felt that this type of opinion should be taken by the Planning Commission. I should not remind you that an opinion had already been taken in 2016 on objective grounds. He considered it necessary to review the allocation key for 2022. You didn't follow that objective analysis. Minister, now that this new report has been released, can you give us some insight into its content? Can we dispose of it? Will you finally follow the conclusions of the Planning Commission based on objective analyses and make decisions based on public health considerations and not on political considerations? Finally, since you know that I have made a series of proposals on this subject, what progress can be made in relation to European doctors who take the place of students in universities? They are integrated into quotas and, therefore, we find ourselves with a number of French-speaking doctors – it is indeed more accentuated on the francophone side – in a sharp decrease, with a pyramid of problematic ages, since a large proportion of doctors are over 60 years old.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u47	Mrs Fonck, first of all, I must remind you that for the year 2022, I proposed to the government at the time that it follow the advice of the Planning Commission. I am a member of the executive, but I do not sit on my own. It was he who chose not to fully follow this recommendation. In addition, with regard to the fixing of quotas for 2023 and the granting of additional certificates, the dossier on the planning of the medical supply contains other essential criteria in order to arrive at a general and lasting solution. The opinion of the Planning Commission has been submitted to the Council of Ministers in recent weeks. We are negotiating on this. As I have pointed out on several occasions, the government is well aware of the urgency of the situation and the need to take initiatives to deliver additional university degrees to students who will complete their medical studies at the end of this academic year. That is why the government treats this issue as a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u48	Minister, I can hear you rereading what happened last year for the 2022 quotas. Of which act. It's pretty amazing! You do the same with healthcare savings by saying that it's not you but that it's the others! I don't think it's credible to stay as a minister when you say that. It's a personal reflection. As far as 2023 is concerned, the information according to which the opinion of the Planning Commission is finalised is therefore correct. Can we have that opinion? Madam President, as regards the transparency of administrative documents, I believe that this document should be sent to us. Minister, I can only encourage you not to repeat your little story of 2022. I'll tell you right away: it won't pass! The issues are patients and public health needs! In this regard, your role and responsibility within government is that these needs, objectively analysed and determined, can be met. Otherwise, major risks are taken to ensure the future of health care. I hope the Prime Minister will support your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u49	Mrs Fonck, your reaction is personal! It will be up to me to decide myself when I will no longer feel good in this government! For the rest, I think it deserves a discussion within the government because it is important to know the consequences in the north and south of the country. The problem of the necessary supply of doctors and specialists concerns the whole country! It is therefore normal to be able to discuss it. As I said, by 2022, I followed and presented this well-developed scientific opinion to the government. I was then criticized by the Flemish because the distribution key in this opinion was not in their favour. We went out with an opinion from the Planning Commission, which was partially followed, with another key to distribution. And there, it was the Francophones who were not happy. There is a need to decide and take whatever action is acceptable to the north and south of the country, in the interests of patients. That's what I stand for in the government, and I feel like I'm being listened to, but we'll see what happens when the decision is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u50	Minister, last year the opinion of the Planning Commission was not followed. I can't let you say that he was partially followed. For this year, if you really want to defend the patients, you will have to assume your responsibility until the end. If you consider that you can, on subjects such as these, succeed by accepting that these are political decisions and not decisions based on objective elements, this is a real problem. Finally, I call on the Prime Minister to support an objective analysis of this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. I accept the request for access to the opinion of the Planning Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u52	The law provides for transparency for administrative documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u53	I know. I'll pass it on. I have asked if this opinion is already available and I have not yet received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u54	But you told us earlier that this opinion had been tabled on the government table. So it must be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u55	I must first ask who can transmit this opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u56	The law must be respected, Madam Minister. You must submit this notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u57	Mrs. Fonck, you still have a lot of requests. For my part, I respect everyone and I asked who could provide you with this opinion. If it's not me, I won't give it to you. There are precedents. In the past, you asked me for texts that had been transmitted to me, as on the social partners, and it was not up to me to give them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u58	Madam Minister, I am sorry, but here we are not talking about the social partners. Let's not make up a story! The Act on the transparency of administrative documents requires that this transparency be respected. In this case, this opinion is obviously directly related to your powers as Minister. It bears, if I am not mistaken, the logo of the Federal Public Service Health Care on its cover. It is indeed you who must provide it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u59	The secretariat of the commission will organize with the minister and her cabinet to ensure that this document is properly transmitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u60	Madam Secretary, one sensitive dossier leads us to another. Recently, I took note of the story of a donor child who is confronted with medical problems and who, in the search for often essential information, needs to know that the information is no longer available. That's not new; we hear stories like that a lot. Not only the donor child itself can face one or more hereditary medical problems. Their own children can also be confronted with this. The knowledge of the medical history is therefore very important. This is also the case with the Belgian donor child born in the 1970s, whose problems have recently come to my attention. Not only has the person himself been struggling with medical problems for a while, the daughter in turn has several medical problems, the cause of which has not so far been established. To get a look at the medical history, contact was made with the hospital where the person was conceived, in order to check whether medical information was available from the donor. The hospital was also asked whether the donor or other donor children were conceived using the same donor, and whether the same medical problems might have occurred there. The answer from the hospital was that although there was understanding of the concerns, there was no data available from donors from that period. There was no regulation on the recording and storage of the data at the time. These regulations did not come into force until 2007 with the law on medically assisted reproduction. Madam Secretary, do you have any idea what data hospitals and doctors have at their disposal on treatments before the 2007 law? Since the 2007 Act only provides for a scheme for treatments carried out after the entry into force of the Act, should hospitals and doctors provide data on treatments previously carried out, if available? To what extent are the hospitals and doctors able to contact the donor in question or other related donor children to find out relevant medical information? From what year can donor children and their parents really be guaranteed the traceability of the donor? Is there also an overview of the hospitals and doctors with regard to medically assisted reproduction using donor material? When did they start recording data? In the meantime, how far is the central registration system, which was already registered in the law on medically assisted reproduction ten years ago, which you promised to do in your policy paper? How is it verified that the registration of hospitals and doctors is correct today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u61	Ms Van Peel, before the entry into force of the law on medically assisted reproduction of 6 July 2007, a medical record had to be kept in accordance with the law on hospitals and the law on patient rights. By the way, keeping a complete file is also a deontological obligation. Deontologically, it is recommended to keep the files for 30 years or up to 10 years after the patient's death. The content and the conditions of recognition of the reproductive medicine care programme are laid down in the Royal Decree of 15 February 1999 and these services are well known. Since the Human Body Material Act of 19 December 2008, these programmes have also been similar to those concerning human body material banks. Since the entry into force of that law in 2009, they have also been covered by that regulation. With the entry into force of the law on medically assisted reproduction on 6 July 2007, it was expressly stipulated that the medical history of the donor should be recorded. This can be disclosed to the child's wishing parents or to the child's general practitioner. Nevertheless, the principle of anonymous donation remains valid. It remains impossible, for example, to find out who the other donor children are or to contact that donor personally. The donation is anonymized, but the donor's medical records are well known. No one knows how many other children were conceived by the same donor, where they are and how they can be contacted. The basic principle remains the anonymity of the donor. The identity of the donor must not therefore be disclosed to the wishing parents or to the donor child. The law on medically assisted reproduction expressly provides that all data which may lead to the identification of donors must be made inaccessible. For this general principle, I can only repeat what I said earlier, namely that the question of whether or not anonymity should be changed is and remains an ethical issue. Parliament is the forum for a debate on this. Therefore, only the data on the donor's medical history will be communicated to the wishing parents and the donor children since the law on medically assisted reproduction of 2007. In the case of questions relating to previous periods, you must contact the general practitioner or the fertility specialist who medically supervised reproduction at the time. In connection with the central system, provided for in the law on medically assisted reproduction, there is consultation between the competent administration, namely the FAGG, and the representatives of the Reproductive Medicine College of the Public Health Office. It will be examined whether it is possible to link the register to BELRAP and also to register any artificial insemination. The possibility of making registration a condition for the use of the nomenclature is also examined. That is, of course, a far-reaching proposal, because that means that without registration the nomenclature cannot be charged to the RIZIV. Information exchange is necessary as donors can report to several centres and gametes both from the European Union itself and from outside. Once the concept of the register is clear, its practical impact and financing will be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u62	Madam Minister, I am not asking for the donor's identity or his data to be disclosed or for any other donor's children to be informed. Sometimes hereditary diseases come to light very late and a donor doesn't know anything about them either. My question is whether a doctor can contact the donor to update the medical records. That can be really essential. Of course, I understand the ethical debate, which could not yet be exhausted here, but I do not have any questions about it, but about the current legislation. You say that medical records should also be kept before 2007, of course not in the way they have been since the law. In that case, a doctor has a duty to provide certain information in the event of such a question. Again, I'm not talking about identifiable cases. If, over and over again, it turns out that this did not happen in certain hospitals or fertility doctors of that time, should it not be applied? That is not a good thing. Finally, as far as the registration system is concerned, I think that we should go further back than 2007, especially with regard to medical data. Again, this is not about the identifiable data. All the information that is still available on the previous issues must also be included. After all, this remains crucial for some of the problems that are now emerging. So I think we really need to do something about that. You say that you find the connection of the registration to the nomenclature far-reaching. That seems obvious to me. That is what the legislation prescribes. I think it would be a good thing if we could ensure that no exceptions can be made and that the necessary information is kept up to date, regardless of what the legislative amendment will entail in the future. So your answer didn't really reassure me. I continue to think it is very important that people confronted with medical problems should be able to get an answer. Again, it's about medical matters. If there is nothing we can do about the fact that doctors do not give such information or do not bother to moustach them, then I think we are avoiding our responsibility towards donor children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u63	For treatments for 2007, people really need to insist on the hospital, the gynecologist and or GP who treated them then. If all that happened and they don't get an answer, maybe they should take legal action. There was already an obligation at the time to keep important information related to medical history for the purposes of medical conditions that children may develop. Of course, the names of the biological parents cannot be released, but it is important to know what the medical history is. I believe that the law on patients' rights in this area offers sufficient legal opportunities. I can hardly imagine anyone refusing to release that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u64	It's not the first similar file I've taken notice of.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u65	I have also seen people asking for a file on such intense medical supervision and saying that the file was lost. Then, of course, they're standing there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u66	This sector has, as it happens, lost a great deal during that period. Well, that does raise some questions, doesn't it? If one finds that there is an inherited condition which is now being passed on to one's own children, I can imagine that one would do anything to obtain information about it. This isn't about futility. You say that legal action can be taken, because in se a doctor is obliged to give that information when he has it. But shouldn't the government take responsibility for this? You could take the initiative to extend the registration of the new files to the old ones. In hospitals, the existing information could be requested to enter it into the central system. In this way, similar events could be avoided. In any case, the fact that such files have always appeared to have disappeared makes me suspicious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u67	Madam President, Minister, the reason for this question is a dossier that your cabinet has certainly reached. This is a testimonial from a patient in Limburg who has been receiving care in a Dutch hospital for many years. According to the sickness fund to which it is affiliated, it is apparently no longer entitled to reimbursement if it takes care abroad. The RIZIV would have confirmed that, too. According to TV Limburg about 1 200 Limburgers would be in this situation. That figure dates back some time ago. Since several arrangements concerning the reimbursement of planned foreign care had arisen over the years, the RIZIV recently had them mapped out. The RIZIV wishes to simplify and make the regulatory framework more transparent and to better align Belgian and European regulations in order to ensure a more uniform application of the rules for insurance institutions and to provide the patient with more clarity about the rights and obligations of cross-border care. By the way, the words "cross-border care" are quite wrong, at least if you take them literally. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What is the status of this review? What are the consequences for patients in border areas, as in the above example?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u68	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, the information provided by the sickness fund to this patient in Limburg, in particular that she would no longer be entitled to reimbursement in a Dutch hospital, was incorrect. It is a pity that they do not first inform us about this before making a reportage that generates many emotions. The IZOM cooperation agreement, which allowed patients living in Limburg, among others, to easily access medical care in a defined border region in the Netherlands and Germany, was terminated at the end of December 2016. The period of notice shall run until 30 June 2017. During this period of notice, the sickness funds may still issue the specific form IZOM EMR E112+ under the condition of the former IZOM cooperation agreement. The period of validity of that form may not exceed the date of 30 June 2017. This period of notice must allow the insured person to examine, together with the treating doctors and the sickness fund, how the continuity of care can be ensured. The cooperation agreement expires on 30 June. As from 1 July, patients residing in Limburg are thus entitled to medical care abroad, including the Netherlands, in the same way as all other Belgian insured persons with compulsory medical care insurance. This is based both on the regulations of the European Union which lay down the right to reimbursement of scheduled medical care in another Member State of the European Union and also in Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland, as well as on our national regulations. I would also draw your attention to the fact that persons living in a border area and taking care of themselves in a hospital across the border may rely on the provisions of the general rules governing the border in national law, in particular Article 294 of the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996 implementing the law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994. The RIZIV is currently studying how our national legislation on access to planned cross-border healthcare can be streamlined and clarified, making maximum use of the possibilities offered by European Union law without excluding national policies where necessary. I don't know who these people are with that health insurance fund. And if one doesn't know, one has to ask. Who was on the phone, who answered? Maybe that's someone who was doing the cleaning there? I don't know, but it's wrong information. I really can't laugh about that anymore. Many patients receive wrong information, which makes them outraged, emotionalized or anxious, which is all understandable. Then they turn to Facebook or they come on TV. But when we ask questions, the information turns out to be incorrect. Whether I am mentioned or not is the least, but at least I do not think it is a way of doing things when patients receive wrong information. A patient is entitled to correct information. It must be avoided that they panic, get the TV or a magazine, start a petition, send a hate mail and so on. I do understand that these people are angry, but the fault is not with the people who react evil, the fault lies with those who inform them wrong. It may not be possible to know everything, there are indeed many changes and transposition into European law has consequences, but anyone who sits at a window or a help desk and gets a question to which he or she does not know the answer is supposed to be informed. However, he or she must not give information that is not correct! I think that is really scandalous and I have already spoken about it. We've got to get that out of the world. People are entitled to correct information, otherwise they will lose the pedals and I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u69	Madam Secretary, I understand you're upset about that. A solution could be to limit the tasks of the sickness funds in order to allow them to focus more on information. If they regard this as their core task, they may be able to do it properly. The other tasks they have with them today seem to stop that. And they do not always perform these other tasks very well, as another Limburg dossier proves. I understand your anger and can only conclude that you were not called before the broadcast. That is a pity when it comes to disinformation. Thank you for your answer. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u70	I have to find out which European directive this is right. It has already been mentioned by Mrs Jadin when it comes to the German-speaking border region. It'll be the same arrangement everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u71	Madam Chair, Minister, effective October 1, 2017, nurses applying the third-party payment plan electronically will be required to verify the identity of their patient during each contact with them. Although this initiative can be welcomed as it will reduce certain fraudulent practices that sometimes occur in the sector, such as invoicing of unrealized services, this obligation will result in unanticipated costs for a range of actors. I am thinking in particular of an active intercommunal in Picardy Wallonia which had not budgeted this expenditure - the acquisition of Corilus software, compatible smartphones and telephone subscriptions amounts to almost 13 000 euros - and which will therefore have to renounce certain investments which are necessary for its operation in order to comply with this obligation to verify the identity of patients. Minister, in order to allow the stakeholders concerned to comply with the obligation to read patient ID cards while travelling at home without affecting their functioning, some of them ask you to postpone this obligation until January 1, 2018 in order to allow the expenditure to be allocated over two fiscal years. Is that possible? Are you planning to increase the telematics premium in the light of these new obligations or to take on the investment of smartphones and identity card readers? Are other measures envisaged not to undermine the functioning and budget of these actors but also to enable them to continue to apply the third-party payment correctly to patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u72	Madam President, Mr Senesael, thank you for your question. The obligation to verify the patient's identity at the time of delivery, while the third-party fee is applied, was introduced by the Royal Decree of 18 June 2015. In this order, reference was already made to the verification of the patient's identity via the reading of the electronic identity card when the data are transferred to the insurers via an electronic network. Since then, the Convention Commission between Nurse Practitioners and Insurers has been informed of this obligation and has collaborated on the establishment of the related rules which are included in the Health Care and Indemnities Regulations of 3 October 2016. The professional organizations in the sector represented in the Convention Commission were therefore involved relatively early in the determination of the date of entry into force. In addition, the date of this obligation was communicated on the INAMI website as of December 2016. This means, in particular, that, as you mentioned, certain fraudulent practices can be reduced. Therefore, it does not appear advisable to postpone the entry into force of this obligation currently determined by 1 October 2017. Moreover, this measure is part of the logical follow-up to the computerisation of health care, which has been developed for many years and allows, among other things, the electronic management of patient records, the sharing of data between providers, as provided for in the action plan and health, faster and standardised communication with insurers. All of this will have a positive impact on patient care. As far as the budget is concerned, it is wrong to say that this measure imposed the purchase of software. The obligation to invoice electronically has already been in force since 1 July 2012, almost five years. Since then, all nursing practitioners at home already have software, because without registration, they don't have any money. The aim is not to undermine the functioning or budget of home nursing actors, but to improve the system with a view to making better use of available resources. The criteria for granting the telematics premium are also currently subject to revision. In this context, an adjustment of the amount of this premium is currently not envisaged. I understand that we have been able to report a problem, but to say that we don't have software is impossible because it's been mandatory for almost five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of that. I was relaying a request that had been addressed to me. I'm going to look at your response with the field players. If necessary, I'll come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u74	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you about MRIs, particularly about the Memorandum of Understanding signed on February 24, 2014 by the federal governments and federal entities, which aims to gradually reduce the use of scanners and replace them with MRI tests that do not use ionizing radiation. Today I would like more information about extra-hospital MRIs. Minister, are all MRI devices in hospital or are some of them out of the hospital (polyclinic or otherwise)? If some MRI devices are out of hospital, can you give me a list? Do they have a specific registration number or hospital approval number? Have there been any new authorizations in the last five years for extra-hospital MRI devices? If so, could you tell me where they are and when the authorizations were obtained? Has there been any transfer of MRI accreditation from a hospital to an extra-hospital facility over the last five years? If so, could you tell me where and when these transfers took place? What are the legal statutes of the structures concerned and any shareholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u75	Mrs Fonck, it is stipulated by royal decree that a magnetic resonance tomograph (MRI) may be installed only in a medical imaging service located in a hospital which has an approval under that decree (Article 5 § 1 of the Royal Decree of 25 October 2006 laying down the standards to which a service, where a magnetic resonance tomograph is installed, must meet in order to be approved). Therefore, the operation of an MRI device is not permitted outside a hospital. The notification of MRIs in the national cadastre of heavy medical imaging devices is a legal obligation and is essential for the invoicing of examinations. For each MRI notified, it is checked whether the hospital has an approval. INAMI only assigns an INAMI billing number when all conditions are met. With regard to the registration of heavy medical devices, no MRI devices installed outside a hospital have been notified to us. Depending on the cadastre, all MRI devices are in a hospital and are numbered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u76	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, I knew the regulations, but I thank you for reminding them. The question arises as to whether all MRI devices are physically located in a hospital. In other words, the question arises as to whether an MRI device with a hospital approval number is not physically located outside that hospital. You're telling me you're not. Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u77	I asked the services that provided me with the answer I gave you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u78	This means that there has never been a derogation for an MRI device to be physically installed outside a hospital?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u79	I haven't been informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u80	Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u81	If you have any evidence, say it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u82	Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u83	Madam President, thank you very much. By reading the title of my question, you have already asked my question halfway. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know what this is about. It is about a proposal that is very dear to all of us. A ruling of the Constitutional Court annulled Article 11 of that proposal. The transitional measures for the new law are actually not considered sufficient. That's what I keep getting questions about from on-site. Madam Secretary, will there be new legislation or will you propose a repair law? Will you formulate that Article 11 in a different way? The Constitutional Court does not question the content of the transitional measures. The Court merely considers that the length of time during which one can comply with the new rules is too short. That is why I would have liked to hear from you whether you will submit a repair law and, if so, when.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u84	Mrs Muylle, you submitted your question on 29 March. The subject of your question was also the subject of some questions at the Health Committee meeting on 29 March. I therefore refer you to my answer to the two questions put by Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Onkelinx. The detailed answer I gave you at the time was on paper. I can hand that over to you. There is little point in repeating that now as a parrot. Nothing has changed since then. Not the entire article was destroyed, only a piece was destroyed, in particular the document on transitional measures. That still lies ahead of the study, to determine whether and how to remedy it. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Court has delivered a final judgment. The rest of the said Article 11 remains in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u85	Madam President, Minister, the long-awaited and ambitious alcohol plan for our country does not seem to be coming yet. As far as the negotiations with the Länder are concerned, if I understand correctly, the March 2017 Inter-Ministerial Conference was cancelled by you because there would be no agreement. Instead, you are now taking some measures which we might consider to be an alcohol plan light. In my humble opinion, these are measures which could have been introduced much earlier. However, the VAD and the Federal Health Knowledge Centre have been calling for a comprehensive alcohol plan for longer than today, not only for young people but also for adults. After all, it cannot be repeated enough that one Fleming is in ten with problematic alcohol consumption. Madam Minister, when will the majority parties in this country, your coalition partners, agree on what should or should not be in the alcohol plan? Does your cancellation mean that the talks with the Länder are finally over, or is there still room for a re-launch of consultations? If so, when can we expect that? Do you intend to introduce other measures, such as the ban on the sale of alcohol in night shops and service stations, regardless of what the Länder may or may not do? If so, when will you do so? If not, why not? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u86	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the same problem that Mrs Jiroflée has raised. The inter-ministerial talks seem not to have been concluded as you expected. I would like to stress that I think that the measures against advertising, which you yourself have announced, are absolutely positive. However, I have doubts about the approach and fear of a few negative consequences. Hence the following questions. The Jury for Ethical Practice is a self-regulatory body, which unfortunately has already proved not to always comply with the most stringent standards. Why do you not support self-regulation alongside self-regulation? Only in this way can we effectively restrict alcohol advertising aimed at minors. The increase in fines for infringements is a good thing, but to what extent can producers of alcohol, publishers, printers, in short, all those involved in advertising be fined for infringements of advertising rules? I support your initiative to tighten up alcohol sales. I hope, however, that you will not place responsibility on party organisers. Do you agree with me that we should first of all monitor the distributor who sells and distributes alcohol? Finally, I would like to know what went wrong at the Inter-Ministerial Conference? Why did you not reach an overall agreement with the regions? Will you continue the consultation or have all the bridges blown up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u87	Madam President, Minister, we have learned that you have withdrawn the federal-federal alcohol plan from the March 27, 2017 Interdepartmental Conference. Instead, you drop a press release, often called "smoke screen release", with measures that are scratched at the level of ambition. That's the least we can say! You're saying outside that it's because you've lost patience with the refusal to advance federated entities. When we know that your party has already blocked the tobacco plans twice before, let me tell you that it seems somewhat special! Before I come to some points, I will quote the reactions. Yvan Roque, President of the Horeca Brussels Federation is in favour of your plan. On the other hand, Thomas Orban, president of the Société scientifique de médecine générale (SSMG) and head of the SSMG's alcohol cell, says that it is a "true scandal of mevererie and inefficiency". It's all said. Minister, with respect to advertising oversight, self-regulation, you are even announcing that any underage advertising will have to go before the advertising ethics board. Should we recall that there can be no publicity for minors? How can we still imagine today not having much clearer, much more restrictive positions on advertising? As regards the intensification of controls at the point of sale: you keep vending machines, while, as you know, they can be easily unlocked by the identity card of an older boyfriend. At the age label level, you set up a system that affixes on a voluntary basis. That's funny, minister! How can you imagine that we can once again have an ambitious policy in this area? With regard to alcohol driving: nothing! Alcohol in the workplace: nothing! On the price, nothing! On support for general practitioners, alcohol consultations reimbursed: nothing! These are specific questions but above all a much more global aspect. Minister, what has been the reaction of the federated entities? Don't tell me everyone's gonna make a story in their corner! It was you and your party who blocked the alcohol plans every time they asked for strong positions. I've heard the expressions of other parties of your majority. Their positions were clearer, brave and strong to fight against the Alcohol Plan. Is your plan supported by the government? The federated entities do not support him. They wanted to go much further. Of course, I can only deplore your public health strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u88	Madam President, the Inter-Ministerial Conference failed to reach an agreement on a global alcohol plan. An agreement would have meant that all ministers of all governments could have agreed to each other's proposals. It is no secret that some partners continued to demand that further measures were taken within my powers, which I feel were more patronizing than directed at tackling alcohol abuse. But in order to reach an agreement, it must also be possible, after thorough discussions, to establish that it is not going to happen and, above all, to assess that the steps that need to be taken are going in the right direction. I also felt that the investments for prevention measures, a Community competence, were rather lean, but I was prepared to see this as a first step. After all, we are coming out of a long deadlock. I can assure you that I went to the last Friday before the Inter-Ministerial Conference to continue to negotiate an agreement, especially since I see the Inter-Ministerial Conference as an important and very useful vehicle to tackle complex problems. So we have not reached an agreement. But I didn't want to waste any more time, I wanted to do my part of the plan. Mrs Jiroflée, you just mentioned my competence as a federal minister, but I would point out to you that, hierarchically, we are all the same in the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I sometimes chair that conference, but the Presidency is rotating. So, even if I am in front of the conference, or Mr Vandeurzen, Mr Gosuin, or anyone else, the chairman has no hierarchical function. This is also the case with the Länder. We're all on the same level. A minister of a state is equal to a federal minister. I therefore share the responsibility there with my fellow Members. I would now like to address the issues raised in the various questions. With regard to sales controls in vending machines, I can inform you that 1,125 and 1,138 vending machines were checked in 2015 and 2016, respectively. The number of distributors offering alcohol without age control was 10% for these two years. Since the end of 2016, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the Public Health FPS has 12 additional controllers, representing a 50% increase in control capacity. One of the priorities of the new supervisors is the control of the ban on the sale of alcohol to young people. For 2017, 1,500 vending machine controls are planned. Some trainings still have to be followed by controllers in the first half of the year. We will try to make an effort also for the years 2018 and 2019. In addition, I also maintain actions in the field of public health, including improving the knowledge of the health care and access professions, which for me are the main points. Since 2009, for example, an Alcohol Liaison project has been set up at Saint-Pierre Hospital in Brussels. The aim of this project is to improve the care of people with ethyl problems by training and raising the awareness of healthcare staff, while providing medical and psychological support by strengthening existing intra- and extra-hospital resources. Since 2013, the project has been exported to the following hospitals: the CHR of the Citadelle in Liège, the AZ Groeninge in Courtrai and the CSF of Chimay. I recently decided to expand the project to include the UZ Gent, the Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg, the Jolimont Hospital and the Princess Paola Hospital in Marche-en-Famenne. The project is currently financed through two royal decrees of subsidies: the royal decree of 9 February 2017 for the first four hospitals involved in the project, for an amount of 267,000 euros and for the four new hospitals involved, the procedure is under way for publication, for an amount of 199 000 euros. The overall budget for 2017 is therefore €467,000. I am also working on the development of an awareness campaign that will aim to provide health professionals with information and tools to address the risk of alcohol use during pregnancy and with their patients to help them better carry out screening and diagnosis of problematic situations. The campaign will also optimize the accompaniment of children suffering damage from foetal alcohol syndrome. A health professional support manual, which will include scientific information and practical communication and screening tools, is expected to be finalized by the end of June. This manual is intended to support the target group in its daily practice and will be broadcasted in early 2018 via different channels. It may be used as a basis for training. The subsequent concrete modalities of the campaign will be discussed in the coming weeks with the services and organisations involved. I would also like to strengthen the self-regulatory framework for advertising. You have mentioned some points in this direction. Certain terms and conditions for proposals such as fines and mandatory advance notice will be further discussed in the coming weeks. I intend to broadcast radio and television spots. The sale and purchase of alcohol involves a shared responsibility between both the distributor, the organizer of the party and the consumer. This is reflected in policy through measures such as strengthening the audit service. We will also take steps to resolve the lack of clarity around age. We will also have further discussions with the alcohol producers in order to give even more clarity through labelling. The debate on energy value labelling has been going on for some time and is still taking place at European level. For questions relating to actions in other areas, I must refer you to the ministers responsible. Since there is no globally approved plan, I cannot communicate about it either. As far as the reaction of my fellow Members from the Länder is concerned, they are well aware of how difficult these talks are. When it became clear on Friday that no agreement would be reached, the contact was also cancelled. I'm open to further contacts, but I won't be a asking party myself anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u89	Madam Minister, in the context of this question, I did not say at all that you were the boss, so to speak. I said something in that direction, but I did not say at all that you are the ultimate responsibility. I know that there is an equality there. I only think that at federal level, and therefore competent for the whole country, we can set an example, both in terms of tobacco and alcohol, and I clearly do not see you doing that. I take it from your last statement that you are angry and no longer taking initiatives. On the one hand, I can imagine that you will be angry if you feel that sticks are being stuck in the wheels or that partners do not want to move. On the other hand, I still believe that it is the responsibility of the federal government to play an exemplary role, even though you are hierarchically next to and not above your colleagues in the Inter-Ministerial Conference. After all, it is from a federal level that one can view the whole country in helicopter vision. It is a pity to hear that you will not take any more initiative in this matter, but once again, I fully understand when we get tired of the discussions. However, I am pleased to hear that there will be awareness of pregnancy, that the monitoring service will be strengthened and that the uncertainties regarding age will be clarified. I think that is a very good thing. However, I do not know when you will see it. I'd like to hear that from you. As you know, I do not fully believe in strengthening self-regulation. I believe that self-regulation should be alongside clear government regulation. Finally, I note that you apparently do not intend to do so, because you did not go into it, to talk about or work on banning the sale of alcohol at night shops and service stations. I am very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u90	Madam Minister, I agree with what my colleague has said, in the sense that I regret that you, as a federal minister, do not want to take an exemplary role because public health is of course very important. I understand that discussions with the Länder have gone wrong at some point, but you will still have to talk to your fellow Members, since it is a matter of shared competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u91	I didn't say I didn't want to talk, but I did say I wouldn't take the initiative anymore, because that's what I did the last time. I am willing to cooperate if a state acts on the subject, but, again, I will not take the initiative. The limits of playing with someone's feet, if I may say so, have been reached. That may change as things can change, but I will not take the initiative anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u92	Madam Secretary, I have one final point to make. In my view, self-regulation does not help without enforceable laws in a sector where there is a large lobby, as in the case of tobacco, sugar or satsumas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u93	Mrs Dedry, what you are saying about self-regulation goes against the evolution that is noticeable in all sectors and is paying off. Are you a non-believer, like those who think vaccination doesn't work either? There are believers and nonbelievers. Self-regulation exists in all sectors. The government will also introduce this in the field of medical devices. If the sector itself can help to work out or control it, it usually happens well. Of course, there will be another check afterwards. You are always on the train, but the self-regulation train, you would let it pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u94	Madam Secretary, I am absolutely not against self-regulation. Moreover, the discussion about vaccinations is something completely different. However, this is a sector in which a hard lobby is at work and in which so many other forces play a part. Self-regulation should not be a priority, but should be alongside a clearly enforceable framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u95	Madam Minister, I do not know what concerns me the most: how lightly do you stand on the fight against alcohol abuse or how convinced you are when you explain your actions to us? In any case, I must note that self-regulation of advertising remains largely inadequate, as we have shown you several times, citing many examples. A stronger policy is needed. The restrictions on access points, the distributors that I think should be banned, the points of sale along motorways - such as gas stations, night sales of alcohol - are all questions that you are not answering or problems that you are taking bogus measures against - as if young people were going to be deterred by the controls and locks of distributors! Price increases and support for general practitioners are striking examples. You are below the World Health Organization's recommendations in this area. You are everything except in evidence based and everything except in line with what the experts have nevertheless recommended to you long and wide. I must therefore note that once again you have focused on the issue of the economic sector and not on health. As with tobacco, you give in to the lobbies of the sector. It is not only the opposition that tells you, but also members of the majority, experts, doctors, all those who take care of the patients concerned on a daily basis. We have a record rate of alcohol consumption in Belgium per capita, with extremely high mortality and morbidity associated with it. For all these patients, I can only regret that you did not have the courage and ambition to defend public health before the economic sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u96	We always talk about the lobby of this or that. Excuse me, Mrs. Fonck, this may not be your case, but I have not met anyone who would be able to work in a tobacco or alcoholic beverage lobby. These people know my name, but they never asked me for an appointment. Do you think my firm is receiving lobbyists in turn? You're always the one who says so. As others write articles claiming: "The minister is really sensitive to lobbies". How could I be sensitive to lobbies when I've never met anyone? I'm asking you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u97	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u98	We are here in the context of oral questions where speaking time is normally limited. At times, however, they are too far out of date. After an exchange of views, there must always be a sense of frustration. But we're still going to have to be disciplined. As the last word comes from the parliamentarian, I give you the floor, Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u99	Madam President, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that speaking time overruns are bilateral.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u100	I didn't say anything else, Mrs. Fonck. Having said that, I ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u101	Minister, it is not necessary to meet with the industry to know that it wants self-regulation and not clear and flagship advertising measures. It is not necessary to meet the sector to know – he says it everywhere and in all languages – that he does not want to remove advertisements at distributors. It is not necessary to meet with the sector to know that it does not want a clear measure for points of sale located along roads, in gas stations, etc. I note that the decisions you have made are in line not with what health experts say, but with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u102	Question No 17581 by Mr Egbert Lachaert is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u103	Madam Chair, Minister, I will redraft the two questions. Whether it's laser hair removal or this new trend of thinning using cold, so-called cryotherapy, a series of new dietary methods of weight loss have many harmful health effects. After this type of machine is used, severe eye or skin burns, severe and long pains, pigmentation disorders and organized inflammatory reactions are reported. Madam Minister, although we are aware that there is already a regulation on this matter, I am nevertheless asking myself the question of the regulatory framework within which we are working in our country to allow or not to allow the use of this type of device. Is there any plans to improve this framework? Are there controls on cosmetic care facilities using this type of device? In 2016, how many people had to be hospitalized for adverse reactions due to poor use of cosmetic devices? If, for the last question, you do not have figures yet, I will introduce this in the form of a written question because it may be too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u104	Ms Jadin, the devices and substances to which you refer are health products and are therefore subject to the legislation of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS). The control of aesthetic care institutes is not a federal control. On the other hand, federal authorities have good jurisdiction over the practice of medical art, regardless of the location. No checks were carried out by health care inspectors. The legal framework does not provide for the registration of such practices for aesthetic services. Existing registration systems, such as minimum hospital summaries, do not provide information on hospitalizations due to injuries caused by the application of such devices. There is also no system for reporting incidents arising from such services. There is no such provision in the law. Please be aware that the Cosmetology Working Group of the Higher Council of Health has issued opinions on cosmetic appliances; these are Opinions Nos. 4641, 4719, 8837, 8587 and 9102. I would therefore like to refer to these documents. With regard to cryotherapy, a distinction should be made between medical indications for cold treatment, dermatological medical indications and cosmetic indications for aesthetic purposes. As far as medical applications are concerned, I would like to point out that these benefits are truly reserved for physicians, nurses and physiotherapists. The Health Care Exercise Act 2015 provides that physiotherapists may apply cold treatments to reduce cell metabolism, inflammation and pain. Doctors can delegate cold treatment to a nurse. This type of therapy requires an instrument whose temperature may vary around the freezing point of the water. In dermatology, the temperature used for cryotherapy is significantly lower. Liquid nitrogen or chemicals with a very low freezing point, such as chloroethane, are then used. These applications are required to treat local skin lesions by removal (e.g. warts), precancerous pigmentary lesions or small malignancies. This type of treatment is administered by doctors in their medical practices both in hospitals and outside. Health authorities do not maintain specific health records. Dry and cold air treatments are done at temperatures below 100 degrees. Applied throughout the body, the whole body cryotherapy is proposed, among other things, as a conditioning treatment for athletes. The evidence of this treatment is controversial. The health authorities do not have an overview of the application of this method in our country. Finally, as regards cosmetic applications, the Law of 23 May 2013 regulating the qualifications required to carry out acts of non-surgical aesthetic medicine and cosmetic surgery specifies, in its Article 2, that non-surgical aesthetic medicine includes any non-surgical medical technical act carried out with the aid of any instrument, chemical substance or device using any form of energy involving passage through the skin or mucous membranes and intended primarily to modify the body appearance of the patient for aesthetic purposes, excluding any therapeutic or reconstructive purpose. Therefore, the acts to which you refer fall within the scope of the above-mentioned Act. The Coordinated Law on the Exercise of the Health Care Professions of 10 May 2015 stipulates that the illegal exercise of medical art also constitutes the usual performance of any medical act involving passage through the skin or mucous membranes and intended primarily to modify the body appearance of the patient for aesthetic purposes, excluding any therapeutic or reconstructive purpose, without meeting the legal criteria. So these are illegal actions. We've got to file a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u105	That's good to know! Thank you, Minister, for your more than detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u106	At her request, question No 17593 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin was transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u107	Minister, the use of multiple communication tools to facilitate the patient's health path tends to become a European standard. In addition to the roll-out of digital and online consultation, the telephone consultation is still a more traditional but accessible means of consultation, I think, for the time being. In Switzerland, 50% of consultations are resolved by telephone, with a service available 365 days a year, and this 24 hours / 24. Orders and certificates of incapacity for work can also be issued. The latter are sent by fax or by e-mail. The State of Baden-Württemberg in Germany is considering applying the Swiss model on its territory. Minister, what is your analysis of this type of instrument in other countries, including telephone consultation? What alternative forms of consultation are currently permitted in our country? When I say "alternatives", I mean compared to the usual consultation where the patient goes to his doctor or vice versa physically. Are you considering the deployment of this telephone consultation system? If so, have you ever thought about alternative models that could work in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u108	Thank you, Mrs Jadin. I am indeed aware of this type of consultation. My administration has indeed had contacts with a private firm which has set up a similar system in France. In addition, in the implementation of the e-Health Action Plan and more specifically of Action Point 19, INAMI launched a call for projects in July 2016, after which 24 pilot projects were selected. One of these projects concerns teleconsultation in the field of mental health. The results of these pilot projects are expected in the first quarter of 2018. Without wishing to anticipate these conclusions, it seems to me better to have a patient's medical record at a teleconsultation, either by the fact that there has already been face-to-face contact between the patient and the doctor, or by making SUMER available once. The conditions for the reimbursement of teleconsultations will be aligned with those developed in the context of mobile health and this means, among other things, that it must be possible to prove that teleconsultation has taken place in order to prevent fraud on both sides. We must be able to prove this in order to avoid abuse. The fact that such a project has been selected means that it is evolving and work is to be done. That would be really interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u109	Minister, we both think so. It would be interesting to know the first results of this implementation in Switzerland or Baden-Württemberg. I didn't know something was in place in France. As far as the implementation of this system is concerned, it is obvious that it is necessary to be able to determine where the problems lie in the practicability of this system, and also in reliability. You are absolutely right; it must be put in place reliably. I therefore hear that this is a tool that could apply to our country. Let's try to dig a little in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u110	Madam Secretary, in June I asked you a question about the FANC licences of dentists. On the ground, I had been told, both patients and dentists, that there would be dentists working without the FANC permit. The figures you gave in reply to my parliamentary question show that there is a legitimate concern: a large proportion, up to half of the dentists working in this country, do not have a FANC licence. You replied to my written question that four checks have been carried out over the last five years, three in Brussels and one in Flanders. Infringements were also found and the amounts unduly recovered were recovered. Half of them would've gotten a fine, too. You later updated your statement to a journalist, because you mentioned 96 checks, including the FANC permits. What exactly is that about? How many controls, specifically on these FANC licences, are there actually annual? Are there indeed four in the last five years? If that is the case, we are talking about a one-in-eight 000 per annum, which is virtually non-existent. If, in the last five years, there have also been four infringements, do you not think it is necessary to increase the number of checks? Are there any plans in that respect? You said that the amounts wrongly collected were recovered each time and that fines were also imposed in half of the cases. How much money are we talking about? Until when can you recover? Does it concern all the services charged up to years ago or how exactly is that determined? What kind of additional fines are we talking about? I have also proposed that preventive action should be taken to prevent dentists from receiving payouts for radiology performance without such a FANC licence. Is this feasible and are you considering taking a measure in this respect? What can we expect? Finally, does the lack of a FANC permit, often because the dentists concerned who have not obtained knowledge of the language due to insufficient knowledge of the language, not reveal a wider problem, in particular the lack of knowledge of the language among foreign care providers? Isn't that a sign of lack of language skills? That is why I have a question in a broader context. Why do you not work on a language test for EU citizens? Other countries do, why not our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u111	Since 2015, the FANC has been carrying out awareness campaigns for dentists using ionising radiations. In 2016, a list of 62 unauthorized dentists was transferred to the Medical Evaluation and Control Service. In reviewing the list, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service found that 38 of these dentists had a total turnover profile, i.e. of all dental services combined, of less than 1 000 euros. Those 38 were not further investigated. Of the remaining 24 dentists with a turnover profile of more than EUR 1 000, only two were currently using ionising radiations. Therefore, there is still an ongoing investigation into the two dentists by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service. The Royal Decree of 20 December 2016 on the exchange and interconnection of information and data between the FANC and the RIZIV will contribute to a better enforcement policy. There is now a framework for more large-scale and/or preventive actions, unlike ad hoc actions following the reporting of problem cases. All dentists with a visa giving access to the practice of dentistry in Belgium who provide imaging with ionising radiation but have no or invalid FANC user licence have been listed. The Federal Agency and the Medical Evaluation and Control Service together take the initiative to remedy the situation. A list of dentists trained in radioprotection under the FANC regulations was also drawn up. The dentists on that list shall also be added to the target group eligible for checks. The classification of dental benefits in kind with radiological imaging provides for the obligation to comply with the FANC regulation. Furthermore, on 24 April 2017, the Insurance Committee decided to amend the nomenclature further in detail, so that without any ambiguity it is clear that the provider has to document that the user licence, the operating licence and the physical check are available and that the medical radiation physical conditions are met. If the nomenclature is used without complying with those conditions, it is not in conformity. Where appropriate, the RIZIV may recover the amounts unduly recovered. The nomenclature is less clear for dental benefits, including RX images where appropriate. It concerns some dentists who do not have the necessary recognition, but who can submit the necessary RX. The Technical Dental Council is therefore working on a proposal for the adaptation of nomenclature, which has been developed in the Department of Medical Evaluation and Control. It will be validated in the near future in order to provide more clarity in this area as well. With regard to the possible recovery resulting from the non-compliant use of the nomenclature, I have been informed that it is not yet possible for the RIZIV to produce, in the short term, exact and validated figures of recovery related to the non-compliant use of the nomenclature. I have asked you to keep me informed and, if necessary, to keep you informed. You can see that the instruments for repressive action against dentists who are not in accordance with nuclear safety regulations are now on the verge of being put in place and that results will also be achieved in this area. Your last question, as you know, does not fall within my competence. The lack of knowledge of the FANC's licensing system may be due to less affinity with public health and nuclear safety regulations rather than to language issues. This regulatory framework is European. I assume that this is also provided for in the basic training courses for dentists. As far as language skills are concerned, I refer to the transposition of the relevant European directives and thus to previous answers to similar questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u112	Madam Minister, with regard to the answer to previous questions, you always said that the reflection was still ongoing on whether or not to draw up a language test.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u113	The reflection is indeed still ongoing. Turns out it's not such a simple delivery.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u114	The first part of your answer pleases me in the sense that it is acknowledged that the controls in the past were ad hoc and hence limited, but that more proactive action is being taken today and that the list is being finalised to check whether these dentists are effectively working illegally. The amendments to the nomenclature are also to be welcomed. As far as the recovery is concerned, no reply has yet been received. I hope that we will receive a response from the RIZIV in the coming weeks. I am very sorry that the reflection on the language test continues. I do not understand that other countries can impose it. It takes two minutes of political courage, but if this cannot be demonstrated, Parliament can certainly take the necessary initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u115	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is a question in response to an article in The New England Journal of Medicine, which shows that Lyrica would not help with nerve pain, contrary to what previous studies would have shown and on which it was decided to repay it. Today, Lyrica will still be refunded to us for that indication. Have you taken note of the investigation and are planning a review of the refund? I have already asked questions about the broader framework and the revision of the list of recoverable medicines. You said a cell was working around there. Is that the case? Is this cell effectively working on keeping track of scientific findings and reviewing the list of recoverable medicinal products? What's gotten out of the bus already? It seems essential to me to reserve the resources for those who really need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u116	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, as far as Lyrica is concerned, the decision on the grant of a proprietary medicinal product is based on the Commission's proposal on medicinal products, which includes experts from various universities and representatives of insurance institutions and from the professional organizations of doctors and pharmacists. They have the task of thoroughly examining refund files submitted by the company. The CTG relies primarily on the officially recognised indication mentioned in the scientific package leaflet of the medicinal product for the purpose of determining the methods of reimbursement of a proprietary medicinal product, as this is the most comprehensive examination of both its efficacy and its safety. In addition, it is common practice for the CTG to carry out a review of an existing refund condition on the basis of new available evidence. It is up to the CTG to see if Lyrica can also be refunded for other indications. If Lyrica can also be registered for this, we still have to see whether it can be repaid for it. It's up to the CTG to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u117	Madam Minister, the question is not to extend the indications, but to reduce the reimbursement for the indication of nerve pain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u118	Yes, but there is also the responsibility of the prescribers. I know Lyrica. That's a centrally-functioning drug with many possible side effects. Whoever takes it shouldn't drive or operate devices. The responsibility of the prescriber is also essential in this respect. It cannot be a medicine that is prescribed in the sense of: does not benefit, then it does not harm. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u119	No, but today it is refunded for the indication nerve pain and the recent study shows that it would not be of sufficient help. Do I understand correctly that the CTG collects that new data and could recommend that the refund be reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u120	Of course. The CTG also does the opposite, if there are indications, but also if indications disappear. Think of the recent hell of immune therapies in people with a congenital immunodeficiency, which were also prescribed in secondary immunodeficiencys, which showed that in that case it is not evidence-based. Then a proposal has been made to stop doing so in the first line. So the CTG works in the two directions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u121	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u122	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the multi-annual Evidence Based Practice 2018-2021 you have drawn up a draft paper setting out the chalk lines that should serve as a basis for the preparation of a multiannual framework by the Belgian Knowledge Centre (KCE). The evidence-based Medicine (EBM) section proposes the creation of an organ in the management of medicinal products. Currently, the independent evidence-based pharmaceutical policy is divided between the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (FAGG), through the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information (BCFI), and Farmaka and the FOD. The current functioning of Farmaka would be integrated into a unique partner in pharmaceutical policy, preferably the BCFI. Farmaka, which since 1972 as an independent body in the evidence-based medicine policy supports general practitioners and caregivers in rational use of medicinal products, carries out several tasks, namely independent visits to doctors in the context of the EBM information, the preparation of the formularium and the systematic literature study. There's 45 people working there. In what way will Farmaka's three different assignments, namely visits to general practitioners, the formularium and the literature research, be safeguarded in an independent way? What happens to the 45 employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u123	As you point out, I said in my policy paper that I am working with the KCE on a multi-annual plan from 2018 to 2021 for the evidence-based practice. Analysis has shown that different initiatives are currently being organised separately, such as the mandates of the Farmaka vzw. The aim of the multi-annual evidence-based Practice plan is to organise the individual initiatives more efficiently and to pool the available financial and other resources. So it is not the intention to save money or to fire people, but to do something about the current fragmentation of investment. Sometimes one is working on the same thing and at other times one is working on it, but one does not know about each other and so on. The KCE will play a key role as a central scientific authority in the preparation and implementation of the multiannual plan. In this context, the Knowledge Centre is carrying out a study on how to achieve such a multi-annual plan. In concrete terms, the governance, dissemination and implementation of the evidence-based practice in Belgium is being examined. The draft note to which you refer sets out the chalk lines which may form a basis for the preparation of the multiannual framework by the KCE. The KCE report on governance of the evidence-based practice plan is expected in June. The partners concerned, including the vzw Farmaka, have already been informed that 2017 is a transitional year. We have therefore granted a full grant for one more year. The partners concerned should therefore also prepare and organise themselves with a view to the new multi-annual framework. Further explanations were also provided by my staff during a consultation with Farmaka and with all other relevant actors in the field. We will proceed in the same way as the study is published by the KCE. I am aware that there is some uncertainty in the field, including employment. That applies to all people who work in that domain, and there are quite a few of them. However, I cannot look forward. I cannot offer guarantees to all organisations for their future activities. These future activities will continue, but the organisations will need to cooperate better under a single structure. The decisions to do so will be based on the results of the report of the Centre of Knowledge. Next, I think that we should sit around the table with the organisations as soon as possible. The organisations then have six months to reorganise themselves and to check how things are going. In doing so, it is important that the organisations themselves understand the need for more cooperation, in order to improve the evidence-based practice story in our country. At present, this is still not clear, but it must be possible to implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u124	Madam Secretary, thank you. If I understand your answer correctly, is it not the intention in this new structure to lose the independent tasks such as the doctor visits they are doing today, but to cooperate more efficiently between the different organs in that one structure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u125	The aim is to have a structure that provides an overview of what is happening in the field by the various actors. Sometimes they do the same thing. Sometimes it's about a case that nobody deals with. Sometimes they do something additional, without knowing it themselves. It is therefore necessary to create order in this regard. We know that there is a fragmentation of resources. More is required every year. We want to maintain a level playing field and establish better cooperation. Independence will also be preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u126	Madam President, Minister, this issue has already been addressed. Mr Thiéry has already mentioned this in the past. The KB of December 1999 on the recognition of clinical biology laboratories was supplemented in 2010 by the provision that a laboratory should contain 0.8 full-time equivalent physician biologist. Until recently, many laboratories contain only pharmacists-clinical biologists. I understand this has a long history. Last year the knot was cut. The regulations came from Minister Onkelinx. The implementation was postponed a few times but then started in January 2017. Clinical labs are fully conformed, either by recruiting a physician-clinical biologist or by fusion. I also see that retired doctors-biologists are re-enrolling and engaging in associations, which is not bad in itself. Madam Secretary, the training of clinical biologist is today a five-year manama, which pharmacists and doctors today have access to. In practice, they are also doing the same job today. Doctors-clinical biologists can also intern at pharmacists-clinical biologists. Pharmacists biologists can also be perfect head of service, as is the case with us in the hospital. There is no distinction in that. However, the underlying motivation for this standard would be a quality requirement. In 2017, 16 labs were not in order with the new regulations, which would be the case now, with the exception of some. In the field I have met some of them, however, there remains a concern that of the 132 labs 42 are active with a doctor biologist, which makes them vulnerable and which has perverse economic effects on the field. I am told that this group's wage demands are really getting out of hand. From the field of work we get signals that really unreasonable wage conditions are being imposed. Smaller labs are therefore competing from the market. Are you aware of these side effects? Will you do something about this? Then, of course, the discussion, which already has a whole history, around pre-school education, whether one is a doctor or a pharmacist, knowing that the five-year-old manama is actually an identical manama. It is said to be equally educated, but the uniformity of the conditions for recognition is not at present there. The question is whether you will include that exercise in the reform of your Royal Decree 78.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u127	Madam President, I remember a question from Mrs Fonck on this subject. Mrs Fonck, is it possible that you have asked a question about this? [[Oui]] I think it was two weeks ago. On the same issue, but somewhat different questions. As for your first question, the health authorities do not control the remuneration of these persons. The Commission for Clinical Biology in the womb of the Scientific Institute of Public Health, which will soon be called Sciensano, is primarily monitoring the quality framework of the tests and compliance with the applicable regulations. Clinical biology services are covered by the 2006 European Services Directive. They have been released and Belgium can only impose rules to be met in order to obtain reimbursement for benefits in kind. You also know that the benefits in these laboratories are covered by the tariff agreements of the agreement committee of doctors and sickness funds, the so-called medicomut. At least for the conflicted providers there is tariff security for the patient, regardless of the human resource policy of the laboratories. Secondly, it is only in unequal situations that unequal treatment can be provided. The regulation of the providers' framework has not come about without some reason. It is generally known that medical training offers special assets in clinical knowledge and also in infectious diseases, microbiology and haematology. Without prejudice to the knowledge and expertise of doctors and pharmacists, the initial training of pharmacists has been developed more closely in basic sciences, leading to a more analytical and toxicological approach to the exercise of the profession. The High Council for Doctors has set up a joint working group of pharmacists, authorised for benefits in kind in clinical biology, and doctors-clinical biologists. This working group is preparing an opinion on a homogeneous framework for the professional internship and the recognition of clinical biologists. In the case of pharmacists, this means that they would actually receive a special professional title instead of an authorisation. The opinion of this working group is expected after the summer recess. We will then take an initiative on this matter. I believe, on the one hand, that there is some evolution in this area. On the other hand, it is true that transitional measures have been advocated for many years. These transitional measures were also taken. Meanwhile, a dynamic has developed and now one has to look forward to the next steps. The Supreme Court is well placed to establish agreements between clinical biologists and pharmacists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u128	Madam Secretary, I'll get back to you. There is a piece of duality: the initial training is different, the manama is similar. However, one also becomes head of the service, so one is in charge of the group, even during holidays and other periods. In the past people only looked at whether they had followed the year. So it's a bit complex, but I'll wait and I'll ask you the question again after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u129	Question No 17644 by Mr Clarinval is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u130	Mr Verherstraeten is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u131	Madam Minister, the dossier of the district health centres has been discussed on several occasions. You have made it clear that you will only recognise new district health centres after an audit of the functioning of the existing district health centres. According to my information, you would not have yet decided which institution should carry out the audit and you would not be able to take any steps forward. But maybe you've already decided. There are many new district health centres in the pipeline at the moment, for which a lot of preparatory work has already been done. Moreover, this also involves provincial money, which still has to be spent in 2017 because it cannot be transferred to 2018. I have the following questions. Madam Secretary, when does the audit start? Who will carry out the audit? What research criteria will you draw up? What's the timing? When can we expect conclusions? Will the audit be completed before the end of 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u132	Madam Secretary, I cannot add anything to that. I have the same questions. I understood the measure you took at the end of last year. You convinced me then that it was necessary to change things. When will the audit start and under what parameters? How do they get revisited? What is the finality of the audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u133	We didn't order the audit. The audit shall be carried out by an independent agency. The contract text was delivered to an auditor through the framework agreement with Smalls. The audit has since been assigned and will be carried out by KPMG. Madam President, before the holiday, I have not been able to mention KPMG. After all, the allocation was then and tour the route. In the meantime, all files submitted before 8 October 2016 and received positive advice have been advised by the Insurance Committee. Other dossiers shall be assessed after the completion and evaluation of the results of the audit. The Federal Government merely gives an agreement for the flat-rate payment of the care of general medical nurses and physiotherapists, if any. So with subsidies from other governments, we have nothing to see. The audit will not only concern the financing of district health care. As with the watch stations, it is also about the continuity and quality of care. This should provide certainty as to whether public money is being spent efficiently. Let me give you an example. We were told that some GPs were only open a few hours a weekend, while others were open all the time. With the new framework, GPs are now obliged to be available continuously from Friday evening at 8 a.m. to Monday morning at 8 a.m. We have asked for something similar. After all, we also know that in some neighbourhood health centres patients can't get home in the evening, which is impossible. After all, these patients are registered in the district health centre. An annual flat-rate amount shall be charged for that invitation to tender. If they become ill at 6 p.m., 8 p.m. or 10 p.m. and then have to go to other doctors, that is an en-story and not an or-story. There are posts that work very well in this area and there are other posts on which many complaints come. That's a lot of discussion. For the sake of good governance, the audit has been assigned and I will keep you informed of its finality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u134	Madam Secretary, the criteria for this audit are clear to me. You can't put timing on it yet, I understand. I asked you if the audit will be completed by the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u135	The last one was finished at six months anyway. At the time, it was about another firm. I believe that this audit is simpler than that on the guard posts, because at that time it was also about the financing of car drivers, drivers, infrastructure, etc., whereas in this case what we are funding is already defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u136	Madam Secretary, there's been a long time of friction with the medical syndicates. Meanwhile, however, the hatchet is buried again. In addition, doctors, health insurance funds and government agencies have also engaged you to start consultations on the supplements that doctors can charge in hospitals and on a first step in reviewing the remuneration of doctors. These are, of course, two very important dossiers that have to do with the accessibility of care. Hence my questions about this. First of all, the pay supplements in the single rooms have already increased by 6.3 %. I will not list all the figures here, but my question is whether, in your opinion, an extension of the ban on these pay supplements in double rooms and thus in day hospitalization to the single rooms is negotiable with the sector, with the doctors. Secondly, the increase in these pay supplements in single rooms not only increases the cost of a patient's intake but also increases the risk of hospitalisation insurers increasing their premiums. Are you gonna take that too? Are you going to negotiate with those insurance companies? That's something that's got a lot of complaints coming up. Doctors are also concerned about this. Thirdly, in reply to my question on the revision of the medical nomenclature, you said that it would not be a walk in the park. You stressed that you do not want to anticipate the conclusions of the working group to be launched. Has that working group been started in the meantime? Who's in the working group? What's the agreed timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u137	Mrs Dedry, the agreement framework negotiated between doctors and insurance institutions on 26 January was confirmed by the government. As regards the Supplements to Honorary Wage and the reform of the Nomenclature, consultations were re-launched. In addition, the Government considers it necessary to have the necessary input to enable fruitful discussions to take place. That is why the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds was asked whether there was a common vision on the main lines of the revision of the nomenclature, which allowed the objective to be achieved. In what areas is there agreement and on what elements is there a difference of opinion between the parties? That is the issue of nomenclature and its unravelling. You know that we have ordered a study from the Knowledge Centre to separate the personal and technical part of the nomenclature by speciality. That study will come this summer, but that is in the context of the hospital reform. The study of the Intermutualist Agency will be analysed for the remuneration supplements. Administrator-general De Cock, Chairman of the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds, is in the process of implementing these decisions. A working group within the committee meets regularly on this subject, as the Medicomut plenary group does in order to have a joint response to the negotiations of the next agreement on these issues. These negotiations will take place at the end of this year, by November, and can then be included in next year's agreement. As you know, we have already taken a number of initiatives on the reduction of pay supplements. I would remind you that there is no problem with hospitalisation insurance in double and multiple rooms, only in single rooms. That is no longer covered by all hospitalisation insurance. There are insurers who can guarantee hospitalisation insurance for a particular group or for an individual, but not if they ask for a single room for personal reasons. That is where it is also important that people have the necessary information. In the old days, they asked for a single room because they had hospitalization insurance, but that's all in the past. It is now necessary to check whether hospitalisation insurance still covers this. There are also those who still pay it, but only up to a certain amount. I would therefore say: read carefully the fine print of the policy and inform you of the extent and duration of its coverage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u138	Madam Minister, I will certainly follow the interesting recommendations that will hopefully come up. There are serious complaints about hospitalization insurance. Personally, through my close-up experience in the KIK project about abbreviated hospitalization insurance, I experience that hospitalization insurance is not really our ally in certain negotiations we are trying to conduct, because they dare to rush their rates rather upwards and dare to adjust their premiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u139	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to what I have read in the press, the pact you recently signed with pharmacists seems to strengthen pharmacists as advisors and introduce new rules. To my knowledge, pharmacists – mine in any case – already play an important and valuable advisory role, especially for the treatment of "small bobos", with orientation towards the general practitioner if necessary, compatibility between the medicines, recall of the prescribed dosage, or advice around the care, for example to improve the patient's comfort. Recognition of this role seems to me to be legitimate and important for patients. The pact would also confirm, among other things, the introduction of a new system for managing the patient's medicines, changes in the organisation of daycare pharmacies, in the remuneration of pharmacists, and a legal framework for master preparation. It would also be a question of going much further by providing a separate room for accompanying interviews, even if the official was closed to receive patients by appointment. Minister, could you provide more detailed information on the content of this pact? To what extent does it codify the current role of the pharmacist, for chronic patients, on the one hand, and for ordinary patients, on the other? What about accompanying interviews? Are they not likely to lead to confusion with respect to a true medical consultation with a view to making a diagnosis? What could be the impact of this development on pharmacists' professional liability? Has the issue of ancillary commercial activities such as the sale of essential oils or food supplements been addressed? I am thinking in particular of the risks of a conflict of interest in the head of the pharmacist. Have the representative organizations of doctors been consulted, particularly on the place of the pharmacist in the relationship with the patient and the necessary communication between doctor and pharmacist? Finally, I would like to know to what extent prevention is part of this pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u140	Mrs Caprasse, as regards the content of the multiannual framework, you ask me if I can give you any information. I'll give you the outline because the content is copious. It also exists in French and Dutch and I find it very interesting myself. You will also find answers to your other questions in this document. I would like to point out that the aim is not at all to organise an oral accompaniment between the reference patient and pharmacist in order to establish a medical diagnosis. On the other hand, the reference pharmacist can indeed play an important role in the early detection of chronic pathologies through various initiatives such as the removal of patients who complain and who cannot be treated with over-the-counter drugs or in the event of alarm signals hiding a serious pathology. The reference pharmacist is committed to the patient and his or her care team to achieve the physician's therapeutic intent with respect to drug therapy. It shall also ensure that relevant information on active medication is made available to patients and their care team in the form of a clear, complete and updated medication regimen, and to pharmacist colleagues in the history of medicines issued through the shared pharmaceutical record. In addition to the professional associations representing PDB and OPACO pharmacists, various stakeholders were also consulted – the joint work lasted a year and a half – during the drafting of this multi-annual framework, including mutualities, physician associations and patient representative organisations and the pharmaceutical industry. Currently, the two organizations APB and OPACO communicate through meetings with patients and groups, etc. They make the communication on their own while we communicated at the time of the signing of the pact. The implementation will take place as we did before, together with all the stakeholders around the table. We work in full transparency and, as with the pact of the future, in the interest of the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u141	Minister, I believe that this pact is an important step in the recognition and evolution of the role of pharmacists. However, this still requires many conditions, particularly in order to avoid problems for the main stakeholders. We must not lose sight of the fact that they do not have the necessary training to make a diagnosis. I have no doubt that most of them are well aware of this, but are the patients aware of it for their part? The role of the pharmacist of tomorrow must be defined with a visible and well-known precision and in consultation with doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u142	Madam Minister, I move you to turn to item 55 of our agenda. Ms. Onkelinx is not present, but her inquiry will be separated from the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u143	Madam President, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the inquiry in question has been added today. He's your colleague and not mine! I would like this item to be dealt with, but if Mrs Onkelinx wishes to question me in plenary, I will reply that I have already answered in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u144	In any case, the inquiry cannot be developed in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u145	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u146	Mrs. Onkelinx will have the power to question you, Madam Minister, if the answer you give is not right for her.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u147	In this case, the answer will be the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u148	Yes, I hope so!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u149	The inquiry was added today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u150	Exactly, in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u151	That's fine with me. I simply note that you are generally collegial. But I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u152	In any event, Mrs Onkelinx will be able to develop her inquiry, if she so wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u153	Madam Minister, information has come to me from the field and is going to change my question. You decided to prevent 150 medical students from developing countries from completing a one-year internship in Belgian university hospitals. You have apparently changed your mind about this. I learned that contact was made by your office to give the opposite permission to 146 doctors to take this internship this year. I'm glad you turned around. This decision was difficult to understand. You explained that there was a problem with the lack of internship places for future graduates and, in particular, with the double cohort. However, we know that they do not have the same function or mission at all and therefore do not take the place of Belgian doctors who are interns in hospitals. In addition, these doctors, within the framework of North/South cooperation, return to their countries of origin. They bring added value to the development of health care in their country. These cooperation mechanisms have existed for many years. This is an important issue, and it is our responsibility to provide them with health expertise and advances. A colleague of your party is also the Minister for Development Cooperation. So I wanted to ask you why you made this decision and demonstrate to you that it was incomprehensible. That's what I just did. I knew you turned around. I can only insist on other measures that must be taken to respond to the double cohort. The solutions are elsewhere, these 150 scholarship students do not take the internship places of our doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u154	Minister, my question is obviously the same. I must confess that I have not at all understood this unilateral and urgent decision to block the examination of requests for exemption under Article 146 in the exercise of the health care professions, because these collaborative projects have long existed between Belgian universities and medical graduates in universities in developing countries. This is both a contribution for our Belgian universities and university hospitals, but above all a contribution for these future specialist doctors who, after a year, return to their country to practice or to teach. Such a decision would damage the reputation of Belgian universities and the links between them. It would also appear that there are legal problems, since advice must be sought from the Royal Academy of Medicine in particular if this provision was to be made. The link with the double cohort for this year 2017-2018 obviously does not appear since the double cohort will appear the following year. Action is needed. A long-term reflection is needed. Through the inquiry of Mrs Onkelinx, who will remain, the subject can be expanded in the discussion. I wanted to understand. I also had the information that you had waived this measure. It would be interesting to know why and what we're going to do next.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u155	Ladies, already on Monday, we met with the press. We were told that, for us, there was no problem. You are well aware that, according to the procedure, once a file is entered for a particular training, if it is declared admissible by the control department and in accordance with the law, the file is forwarded for notice to the Royal Academy of Dutch-speaking Medicine or to the Royal Academy of French-speaking Medicine. In the event of a favourable opinion, the SPF shall provide a document to the applicant service and to the person concerned, so that all measures are taken to start training. The files we are talking about have all already been the subject of a letter from the SPF. I don't see the problem. I don't understand the coucacs we're talking about in the press. Our reaction has not been repeated in the published articles. A dispatch from Belga has just been aired (at 5:19) in Dutch which clarifies the situation. Francophone faculties thought it was going too slowly. Indeed, when we see the figures, it is mostly Francophone students who are concerned. As you know, Article 146 governs the influx of non-EU doctors who wish to take a specific professional internship in a field of the art of medicine. There, an exception scheme is provided, ensuring that such persons do not receive a visa to practise. In other words, they are exempt from the requirement to hold a visa and are also not registered with the College of Physicians. I told you what happened once the file was introduced. The 2016 and 2017 files are the subject of a detailed analysis because, first, they are consistent figures: almost 200 per year, which corresponds to about 400 files in two years. The gap between the number of cases in the university services of the French Community is 220 and that of the Flemish Community is 5. These differences are due to the fact that a large number of applicants come from French-speaking countries and that for this reason foreign schools have privileged relations with institutions located in French-speaking Belgium. A second reason for carrying out this in-depth analysis is that training is carried out in approved internship services for medical specialists in training. In view of the large number, these internships for medical specialists in training are likely to be put at risk, especially on the francophone side. In fact, there is a need for more internship places because of, among other things, the dual cohort. I would like to point out that it is necessary to provide additional internship places from 2018 onwards for the double cohort. In this sense, I am concerned about the large influx of Fellows who are trained outside and in addition to the existing quotas. Finally, I would like to make it clear that Article 164 does not constitute an absolute right vis-à-vis doctors from foreign countries of the European Union or university hospitals responsible for training them. It's an easy one. In addition, the influx must be proportional. We need to ensure the quality of internships for both Fellows and Medical Specialists in Training. However, an excess of internship services does not provide sufficient guarantees for professional experience. As I said, there were no problems. The files were sent to us. We wanted to verify more precisely which countries the students came from. In any case, the administrative services had already sent them a letter. Their files will be released gradually. We also informed the deans. If they want to talk to the press, it's another case. Some files are already released, but many are still waiting for a signature. However, each student can complete his or her internship. It's not usual. Hence the need for careful consideration of each application. In my view, this is proof of good governance. I think this could contribute to a solution for the double cohort of students next year. Mrs Fonck, you are not convinced that there is a problem here. But 400 students have started internships in hospitals and now the hospitals tell me they need 1,400 more internships. I think there's something wrong. That is why we took a few weeks to discuss this issue. We cannot deny that there is a capacity problem for the training of doctors. We still need to look at all the possibilities. For the rest, we are looking for solutions. But we also ask all those involved in this two-cohort problem – which I did not create, but which is present – to find solutions and let us examine them. At this stage, we have not received any proposals. If you have any proposals, Mrs. Fonck, you can forward them to us. I'm waiting for your initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u156	It's fun. We don't vote the texts and we're constantly repackaging the opposition! What about the number of proposals that we have put forward in various areas and for which you are sending us your cabinet to tell us that you do not agree and send the parliamentarians here to say that, even if they agree, they are obliged to vote no, either! Frankly, your last remark is of total contempt. This statement, I will bring it out on the day you send your cabinet again, obliged because it bothers you that we come with interesting proposals and that you want above all to prevent the opposition...You even sometimes try to prevent the vote of texts...Do you want me to refresh your memory? The neutral package, the Valproate,...? Do you want me to quote all the texts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u157	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u158	I'll tell you about the double cohort. You've turned around! This is a good thing and I do not regret being mobilized for it after the alarm bell was drawn by universities and doctors. You insist all the time. These are Francophone universities, they come to Francophones, they come to Francophones... so what? There is the ease of language. It is generally easier for them to do so in French, a language they know. Secondly, I am proud, and we can be proud, that Francophone universities and hospitals are investing in North-South cooperation and are training and returning doctors who have had more training and who will, on the spot, improve the quality of care compared to developing countries. I'm proud of that. As far as the double cohort is concerned, the fellows who come are scientific degrees. They do not have an INAMI number, they do not have the same responsibility or scope of intervention in hospitals. I'm saying it again here because I don't agree with your comments. They have a particular specificity. They cannot therefore intervene as our graduate doctors do, the scientific degrees that come do not have the same recognition or, therefore, the same fields of responsibility as our doctors. On the double cohort, yes, we lack capacity and it is not today that I am asking you about this, as is your predecessor. When we voted for this text, which you will have to vote for, too, I called for the problem of the double cohort to be solved first before rushing to vote for the duration of the 6-year studies instead of 7. But in practice, a whole series of proposals have been addressed to you, especially by specialist doctors and general practitioners, including through the Council. The challenge today is also to identify the budgets needed to manage these dual cohort problems in order to have enough referral physicians to supervise these trainees. The knot is there, too. I therefore expect that all the interesting proposals which have been made will be seized in full by you and your colleagues in the Communities and that the budgets will be made available to put them in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u159	Minister, I have the feeling that there has been either haste, confusion, or error in the leadership of some people or services in making this decision in this way. The link to the double cohort for this year cannot be established. On the other hand, to question the origin of the people, the examination of the files, should not be a routine because this has never been the case. Each time it is files that are introduced, reviewed and answered. As Ms. Fonck said, these trainees have statutes and competencies. We have different expectations vis-à-vis them than with other trainees. I think, however, that there is a reflection to be made for the future on all these presences in hospital structures between referent traineeship physicians, future specialist candidates, trainees and these. Indeed, there is nothing to do. They must also, of course, participate in the specialization of doctors from developing countries. It is also our responsibility as a State and as responsible, motivated by public health. Regarding the double cohort, through various questions that I asked you, I also submitted a few leads about which we did not have the opportunity to exchange, but I will send them back to you with pleasure. That said, I'm glad there was a step backwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u160	That's not the case. Some have already received it. It's not reverse, it's not turn back, it's turn back. We simply wanted to make an inventory to determine which countries they came from. You say they have another status.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u161	I know hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u162	You actually have to go to hospitals every night, every night, every weekend. Who's there?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u163	Minister, you won't teach me about hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u164	You find these people in hospitals! You find them in hospitals!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u165	What I also see in hospitals is all the European doctors that we let go, while we block our students. This is unacceptable! And you're doing the show here for North-South cooperation, when you know that they don't have the same function in hospitals, that they're scientific grades, that they don't have an INAMI number and that they can't do the same kind of surgery. These are going to go back. On the other hand, you do not move your finger in the face of the incredible number of European, non-Belgian doctors who come royally to take the place of our Belgian doctors, preventing young people from starting medical studies. There you are not moving, even though the European directive allows you a lot of things. I have made some proposals on this. What did you do? You repackaged them!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u166	Who says I'm not moving? Are you at my house all the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u167	Every time I made you proposals on this matter, what did you say? Oh, no, we can't! I have looked at the European directive. You can, but you don't want to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u168	You're just making a fuss in the press. I have to safeguard the quality of training and care for our patients. I'm taking my responsibilities. And if it takes me a few days or weeks to get a view of all the files, I'll take them, even if you don't like it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u169	There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u170	I invite you to make proposals. But the only proposal I have for the double cohort is, "Give us 120 million." I'm asking why. "We don't know, but we'll see when we get the money." So we're going to send 400 or more students abroad. Belgian residents who cannot afford to go abroad. We have to live. And in the meantime, leave all doors open for trained people anywhere. That's what we're going to do. That's your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u171	No, that's not my proposal! I just pleaded the other way around. You are making a melting pot, and in my opinion, specifically, between doctors involved in cooperation and European doctors, which I also point out. I have come with many proposals for European doctors. It is not about North-South cooperation. They also came through recruitment agencies and organized channels to bring them in. In this regard, I have made two proposals to you, Madam Minister. The first is the introduction of a language test. The second is the introduction of a test that validates their skills. All this is allowed within the framework of the European Directive. Austria has been doing this for years. She's never been criticized on that. All this, you could have done it. These are proposals that we have tabled. You first tried to make me look like an idiot of service, who could not read the European directive. After that, you didn't dare say anything, but you still haven't moved. In the meantime, you're making a big mix. All for nothing. The fact is that universities have sounded alarms about these doctors from North-South cooperation. One of your Open-Vld colleagues...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u172	I've got something else to do!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u173	You're amazing! You are very deplorable about this, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u174	Mrs. Fonck, I'm going to put an end to your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u175	Minister, the universities wouldn't have spent their time telling you that there's a problem with blocking files if there wasn't something. Now, that your intentions have been different from what happened and that there has been regulation or arrangement of the situation, and then that we look at the search for solutions for the future, there is no problem with that. But if there had not been a problem, if only a lack of communication or poor communication with the result of a poor understanding in the head of the universities, we would not have intervened today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u176	The deans are often at home to talk about something else. They could have contacted us immediately and they would have had the information that there was no problem with these files. So, no, like Mrs. Fonck, the deans wanted to run to the press. That's the way to do it now! This is the new way of cooperating. It's a new course. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u177	We'll come back to the subject of the double cohort, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u178	I'm still going to reply. Your conspiracy theory doesn't stand on the road for a second. Frankly, I didn't know I had that power to actuate people to get out in every direction. I did hear the call and then it makes sense for me to question you, Madam Minister. You know what? Tomorrow, it will happen again. Let me tell you that when it comes to communication, you are the queen!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic646x.u179	(...) context or otherwise.
