ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u1	Mrs. Jadin isn't here, and she hasn't said a word.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u2	Minister, in 2015 you stated in response to my question that the Cyber Security Operations Center at ADIV would be expanded to 25 new staff. During the Committee of 22 February 2017, you replied that 13 new members of staff had been recruited at that time. In order to counter the lack of new recruitments, you also reported that you would consider the extent to which staff could shift to cyber activities. Can you give an update on the implementation and further operationalisation of the Cyber Security Operations Center? Can you give an update on the investigation that you spoke of in the February committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u3	Mr Buysrogge, my answer is much longer, because these were originally grouped questions. Indeed, I have announced several times that the existing embryonic cyber expertise in Defense has been systematically developed since 2014 and certainly from 2015. In the first phase, of course, the focus is on developing defensive capabilities to optimally protect territorial military systems and quarters. Afterwards, we will be able to shift our focus to expeditionary support of operations and offensive expertise to eventually achieve a full military cyber capacity by 2030. We have accelerated the actions. More places were declared vacant. At the committee meeting of 22 February 2017, I gave a specific result, namely 25 staff members. Of these, nine have currently been recruited. A number of candidates are still taking part in tests today. We hope to be able to get the figures set out or at least to catch up. I can inform you that we continue to invest and recruit in that domain. In parallel to the recruitment of cyber specialist citizens, the expansion of cyber capacity is also supported by a lateral influx from the existing internal military population. We therefore recruit externally through Selor, but also internally we look towards candidates at commander level. Perhaps some of us who are in an operational environment at the end of their growth potential can use retraining in the cyber centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u4	Indeed, Minister, it is important to continue to work on both external influx and internal mobility. Could you clarify the external influx for a moment? You just talked about nine candidates out of 25. Does this mean that the recruitment process has still failed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u5	I do not hide the fact that the market demand for IT specialists is high and that we do not always have the best assets to be very competitive in that market. One of the reasons for this is, of course, that Defence is always covered by statutory provisions and payable subsidies. We're looking for a specific profile, and that's not obvious. Anyone looking for IT personnel, in the government or in the private sector, is having trouble finding them today. That is why we must continue to work on this, and that is why we are making greater use of the internal channel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u6	I wish you every success, because it is necessary. Last time, you also referred to the possibility of working more flexibly with wage-earners in order to respond to labour market problems. I look forward to seeing concrete results in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u7	Minister, since 2011, the 80th squadron has been operating every year in the region around the Portuguese city of Beja, to train with drones and thus to reach and maintain the necessary level. From those drones, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) in military jargon, 18 pieces were purchased for a sum of 52 million euros. It is a drone that is used, among other things, to make observations over the North Sea, to assist in the counting of wild animals and to provide support for fires. The aircraft also links the fight against organized crime and protects our borders. Finally, it still does data collection for the services of the Defence and Government. According to the Defence website, that UAV is perfectly suitable and safe enough to fly above inhabited areas. However, L'Avenir reports that a drone would have crashed during the exercise in Portugal. Fortunately, there are no casualties and the damage is limited. Apart from the loss of two drones in Congo in 2006 and the loss of two drones due to landing problems, there is now also a loss in Portugal. The parachute, which still needs to ensure a soft landing, apparently did not open. Mr Minister, the statement that it is safe to fly over residential areas and the crash brought me to ask the following questions. First of all, how often do the drones' airworthiness checks take place? Secondly, will you investigate further or will you investigate the incident further, in order to avoid worse in the future? Thirdly, how many drones have already fallen out? We are aware of the two incidents in Congo and of the two drones inoperative due to landing problems. Are there any other cases of attrition known? Fourthly, how many of the 18 originally purchased units do Defense have today? Fifth, were the B-Hunters still deployed for military missions in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2005 and in Congo in 2006? Sixth, how many amounts or were the maintenance costs for the aircraft in 2016? Finally, are the devices being used today for other purposes than training and monitoring the pollution of the North Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u8	Mr Minister, Mr Top, thank you for your completeness, both in your introduction and in your question. As a result, I can confine myself to my questions as I have submitted them. Minister, what type of drone is this? How many of them did the DOD buy, and how many of them are left? Are these drones deployed abroad? For what kind of assignments? Will they also be deployed in Belgium? Where exactly did the accident happen? What caused it? Were there any injuries or any other damage?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u9	Madam President, Defense initially purchased 18 B-Hunter aircraft. After the incident in Beja in Portugal, Defense still has 11 air-powered aircraft. Maintenance and periodic checks shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the manufacturer, in this case Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd. In addition to the prior and subsequent checks on each flight, the technical staff of 80 UAV shall carry out periodic checks, based on either the calendar or the flight hours, on the structure of the aircraft and on its various components. The large maintenance is ensured by an industrial partner. As with any air accident, the Air Component Aviation Safety Directorate is also now carrying out a thorough analysis and investigation to determine the causes of the incident and, where necessary, to make proposals to improve existing procedures. That investigation hasn't been completed yet. In connection with the deployment, they were deployed abroad in the past, including in monitoring movements in the context of elections in Congo. They were also deployed in other places in Africa. Following the attacks of 22 March 2016, we deployed four B-Hunter aircraft from Brasschaat base to carry out a thorough surveillance of the port of Antwerp for the benefit of the National Crisis Cell. In the context of training, the drones are also used, in addition to the orders above the North Sea, to follow the wild stock in the Ardennes. In addition, very regular support is provided to the federal police and customs authorities. For this I can specifically mention the projects around the French border. In 2016, the maintenance costs of the aircraft B-Hunter amounted to a total of three million euros. According to the applicable procedures, the defective drone crashed in an abandoned zone about five kilometres from Beja airport. This abandoned zone was explored and identified in advance. This has contributed to the absence of human damage and the prevention of further material damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Regular checks, according to the calendar or flying hours, are of course normal. I hope that the report resulting from the further investigation will be made public at the end. With regard to the useful deployment, you have listed the tasks that drones perform today. However, there is still concern. In recent years, their number has been reduced from 18 to 11 due to attrition. I'm missing another one somewhere, but maybe that plane was just written off. Considering the number of incidents, a permanent focus must be the safety of the aircraft to fly above inhabited areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u11	Minister, I do not have much to add. Like my colleague, Mr Top, I am in favour of the strategic vision of the Minister of Defence, which invests in those drones. I believe that investing in the renewal of such equipment is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u12	Mr Yüksel, through his colleague, said that the questions under item 2 could be dealt with as far as he was concerned. We will deal with it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u13	Mr De Vriendt, I assume you will ask your three questions one after the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u14	Madam President, Minister, some of my questions may have been somewhat overtaken by reality. Mr Minister, I would like to put my finger on the unacceptable circumstances in which some 70 soldiers had to stay in the KMS. They're military personnel participating in Operation Vigilant Guardian. Photos have appeared of overnight stays in classrooms that are in fact too small for so many people, barely toilets and ventilation. I have heard that the situation has improved in the meantime. Can you confirm that? It's not the first time we've had complaints. There were also complaints about the accommodation in Peutie, at the start of the operation, and later also about the rest spots in metro and train stations. So it keeps repeating itself. Threat level 3 will not disappear so quickly, so the soldiers from the street scene will not disappear. In my opinion, it is only a matter of respect for our army not to continue to accumulate such mistakes and to give normal and decent accommodation and framework to the military. Do you wish to commit that such cases no longer occur and that the remaining pain points are resolved? I also wanted to wrist you about the meals for the KMS military participating in the Vigilant Guardian operation. There were complaints about the too small portions at meals and about having to pay for extras, whereas this is not the case in normal units. I believe that this problem has been solved, but I would have liked to confirm it from you. Finally, I have a question about the most recent lodging of the operation Vigilant Guardian at the airport in Zaventem. That problem has not yet been solved, as I have heard. Staff must sleep in a tent under shelter at Zaventem airport. Some of the rest periods are situated there. There are complaints about nuisance caused by exhaust gases due to the location of the buses nearby. There is also traffic noise and such. Military people are a bit used to training in bad conditions, but this is an actual operation. Nothing prevents us from making the conditions and accommodation as good as possible, allowing them to carry out their airport security assignment sufficiently fresh, because that interests us all. An equipped military is an alert military. I would also like to talk to you about the blocks of patrols and the shifts they have to go through. For example, I received a report about a unit of soldiers who, out of the 15 days on the spot, could only sleep in a bed four times in the log, so not in that tent. There's some confusion because the patrol blocks and shifts aren't actually fixed. That may be a bit different depending on the moment. However, I am reaching several reports in which there are too many blocks of patrols. A patrol is a 12-hour block without sufficient rest and sleep periods in good conditions. That's the bottom line. I'm asking you to look into that again. These complaints are taken seriously in the army, but they have not yet been dealt with and remediated sufficiently. Please respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u15	Madam President, Minister, my question is similar. I shall confine myself to the explanation, since Mr De Vriendt has already opened the matter. It concerns the article published on 13 October on the situation in which the military stayed in the Royal Military School. Minister, soldiers are never in the front row to complain about working conditions. They always do their job with full surrender in the circumstances that are what they are. They are always willing to give up a piece of their comfort and privacy. That's what they're used to, and they've been doing it for years. They are willing to share rooms and sleep on cots, but there are limits. We must ensure that they are properly supervised. They complain, among other things, that they have to do 12-hour shifts and do this several days in a row. Is this true? Can you explain how these shifts are put together? What solutions do you offer to increase the comfort of our military specifically on that mission, not only for the stay on the KMS but also in other places? This is a recurring remark, as Mr De Vriendt said. One should offer the military the comfort they deserve so that we get well-equipped soldiers on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u16	Madam President, Minister, my questions are of the same order as those of my colleagues. I also rely on an article I read, more than a month ago. In fact, around 19 October, the newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws echoed the dismay of some soldiers who expressed their discontent. A local television station in my region, Télévesdre, has also devoted a whole programme to this subject, namely that some soldiers who do their guard work in Brussels, to the greatest satisfaction of all of us, sometimes have to sleep up to 24 per room. They would have only three toilets for 70 people in the Royal Military School, with limited access to showers. Although I understand the difficulties of organizing and carrying out missions in a practical way, I still wonder. Minister, how can this situation be rectified? But first, do you confirm this situation? Since then, since my information goes back a month, have things improved? Should the necessary arrangements for deployment in the capital be reviewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u17	Madam President, Minister, my concerns are, of course, similar to those of previous colleagues. Our group has always welcomed the work of our military in this temporary mission, given the exceptional situation which constituted the level of threat in our country and which the public authorities, like the communes, have had to face. As colleagues have done, we therefore thank them for their work. However, it must be noted that the press regularly echoes the fact that the soldiers patrolling the streets of our capital complain about the conditions in which they are housed, such as the lack of showers, toilets or privacy. Minister, can you provide an update on the accommodation conditions of our soldiers under Operation Vigilant Guardian (OVG)? Have there been any improvements, particularly in terms of amenities, in order to improve these conditions? What is particularly at the level of the Royal Military School?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to put this into context. It is not the case that the Minister decides that there will be 20, 70 or 100 people sleeping in the Royal Military School or in any other place. Those are operational matters. I've been asking you from the beginning to make sure these things go sideways. In the past we have had discussions here about the situation and kitchen of Peutie. In the meantime, the problems there have been solved. However, it is impossible for me to control and verify any whereabouts or any meal for military personnel. Mr De Vriendt, it is not for the sake of fire safety but for operational reasons that a number of soldiers are staying closer to the Brussels deployment zone. This has to do with the renewed form of commitment and faster availability. In this way travel times are limited between Brussels and Peutie. It is correct that the working time is long, but if the journey times are longer then everything takes longer. The Royal Military School's infrastructure is designed to accommodate students and provide academic training. So it's not a barracks in the traditional sense of the word. These existing infrastructures are designed to meet the needs of the OVG detachment. Following the publication of the articles, I myself started to examine the subject on the spot. A number of measures have been taken. In the short term, the living conditions of members of the OVG have already been improved. Improvements include a decrease in the number of persons per room and an increase in the number of sanitary facilities. The military personnel participating in the OVG are spread throughout Belgium. They have rest places in Puisie, Brasschaat, Amay, Florennes, Brussels and at the airports of Zaventem and Charleroi. Fire safety checks were carried out at all these locations. The workload for the military on commission may in some cases be 12 hours. This is not the case for all tasks in the context of Homeland operations, but it is not exceptional in the case of operational deployment. You know that the military are being deployed under the relevant arm's length, which means that they are also being reimbursed for a number of things. During the roll-out of the new operative OVG, the workload aspect was closely monitored and corrections were made where necessary. This situation is constantly being monitored. Since 16 August 2017, the Catering Service of the Royal Military School is no longer run by Defence itself. This service was outsourced. The preparation of the Catering Contract was based on the nutritional needs of pupils. However, before the media mentioned it, discussions were already ongoing with the catering industry and the soldiers. An adjustment of the menu and the availability of meals had already been made at the time of publication of those articles. Yes, it was specific about portions. It's not like there's extras in any barracks for free. Mr De Vriendt, menus can be ordered as they please, but a meal is provided as part of the operation. It's not like the kitchen used to be open at 9:30 in the evening, for example. But then they knew each other and they put a sandwich on the table and a packet of cheese in the fridge. The men or the ladies who came back could make a sandwich. In the meantime, that's been solved, too. Food is available for late arrivals. Remedial measures have therefore been taken. I can tell you that, like the defence staff, I take the staff's remarks seriously. We'll send you where it's necessary and possible. I'm going to go to Zaventem. Our people shouldn't be sleeping in a tent under a roof. There are specially equipped containers, where soldiers who are not on duty or on guard can sleep. In addition, there is a tent for the military who are of service, where they can rest briefly during the breaks during the execution of their assignment. So again we are talking about the new operative in which not everyone must always and everywhere be present statically, but must be available quickly. In that context, indeed, spaces are delimited with tents in which one can rest for a while. However, I assume that we will continue to monitor the situation. In the meantime, someone from the cabinet is also carrying out semi-inspections on a regular basis to make sure everything is okay. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important for me in this whole story that the chain of command, as it exists for the military, also works. That is to say, if a soldier has a problem with the plumbing, the food or whatever, he basically reports it to his immediate superior. That's how it finds its way upstairs. I'm assuming this system that's been running for centuries has to run the way it's supposed to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u19	First of all, Minister, it is also your operational competence. You're Secretary of Defense, so you're responsible for that. Of course, you cannot personally check every meal, but we do expect that, if you get a signal, you will act quickly and that the complaints about poor accommodation will stop. After all, it's not the first time. There have already been such situations in Peutie, the KMS, Zaventem and a few other places. We just need to do a screening so that everything is put in order everywhere. Of course, I can only inform you of the situation in Zaventem. It is up to you to do something about it, but if these complaints continue to come in, we will of course not let that happen because we are concerned about our soldiers who have to operate in any case in difficult circumstances. They guard our safety and must be able to do so in an equipped way. If I am told that a number of soldiers in Zaventem of the 15 days on the spot have only been able to sleep four times in a bed in the planned block, that worries me. I think that's what you're worried about. That's not a normal way of working. I really want to ask you to check all this again and let your common sense play. There must be sufficient rest in good conditions for military personnel carrying out security orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u20	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. My reply goes in the same direction as Mr De Vriendt's. You are right to say that you cannot control all operational matters. You remain, however, the ultimate responsibility of the Defense Department. So you do bear the responsibility. Solutions were offered and cases adjusted, but the repetition of comments indicates that there are and remain problems. I hope that these problems will be dealt with properly so that they do not arise in the future. I come now to your last comment on the chain of command and that the comments should follow that path. That is the normal course of action, but one has to ask oneself what is the cause of remarks that no longer follow the normal path of the chain of command. Probably there is a feeling that the problems will not be solved quickly enough. People get displeased about their situation. You are right to say that the chain of command must be followed and that action must be taken very quickly so that the problem does not arise in the future. Take it from me that I may raise new comments and questions again, because it is our duty, but also your duty, to defend our military and defence forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u21	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I hear that arrangements have been made in response to the events of October. Like you, I believe that we all need to ensure that our military personnel carry out their missions in an appropriate environment, including adequate accommodation and rest periods. That is why we will continue to follow very closely the developments in their situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u22	Minister, like my colleagues, I welcome the corrective measures that you have just recalled. It seems to me that you are obviously responsible for the well-being of our military. It is therefore important to consolidate this responsibility. As far as the chain of command is concerned, I agree with you: we must respect it. However, it should be asked why it is not working properly at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u23	Madam President, in the replies I hear that my answer is perceived as if I believe that the soldiers should not complain and that they should follow the chain of command. I didn't say that. I did say that everyone in the chain of command has to take responsibility, or at least it has been my intention to answer that. I agree when it is said that I am at the top and that I am the final responsibility. However, I am also convinced that the system itself must at some point do its job and as a minister I expect it to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u24	Mr Chabot, would you like to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u25	Madam Chair, I take note of the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u26	Madam President, Minister, the strategic vision refers to the replacement of the standard weapon from 2020 onwards. The standard weapon is still the FNC for most units. In recent years some units have been equipped with the FN SCAR. It would be about 4 500 pieces. Minister, do you confirm this number? Which units are currently equipped with the FN SCAR? Secondly, how many FNCs are still in use as a standard weapon? Are there any other standard weapons in use, such as the F 2000? If so, how many? Thirdly, how many standard weapons will be purchased under the strategic plan? Which weapon will be the new standard weapon? Fourthly, when will a decision be taken on this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u27	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, in 2012 4 470 FN SCAR weapons were purchased in the different versions. The FN SCAR LSTD 5.56 millimeters, the FN SCAR LCQC 5.56 millimeters and the FN SCAR 7.62 millimeters. Only the 5.56-caliber is considered a standard weapon. Of these, 4 028 were purchased. In 2012 the patrimony of FNC and F 2000 was partially replaced by the SCAR and the P 90. To date, 14 568 copies of the FNC and 299 copies of the F 2000 are still in use in the units. It is intended to replace the remaining patrimony by the purchase of 688 P90 weapons and 9 427 multifunctional carbines of the calibre 5.56. The purchase procedure will show which multifunctional carabiner 5.56 will be purchased as a new standard weapon. The signing of the contract is scheduled for 2018 with a delivery from 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and I have no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u29	Madam President, Minister, at the end of last year, a number of people from the Counter Intelligence department of the ADIV wrote a letter in which they complained about a number of cases that were wrong in the functioning of the ADIV, including internal competition, incorrect flow of information, confusing communication with domestic and foreign partners and mistrust between the different departments. The content of the letter as well as the causes and consequences were in the meantime discussed here in this Committee for the Defence of the Land, but also elsewhere quite extensively, including in the advisory committee of the Committee I. Meanwhile, the then lieutenant-general also resigned from his duties as head of the ADIV and was appointed a successor. An audit was carried out by the Committee I in 2011. You delivered the letter which was also addressed to the Committee I in order to be able to carry out an investigation. In the meantime, what steps have been taken by the Committee I and the ADIV to improve internal operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u30	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge, the following measures were taken at various levels. First, the chain of command of the ADIV was revised with the aim of being more transparent and efficient. The control of the command was also revised. Moreover, a defence intelligence and security coordination centre is in being established, which will get the nice abbreviation DISCC. That coordination centre will be the only point in and of the ADIV in order to improve and simplify the flow of communication within the service. The internal processes of the ADIV have been and are constantly reviewed in order to respond more efficiently and coherently to crises or incidents. A thorough effort is also being made to strengthen coordination with the various partners, both at national level and at international level, through participation in various meetings as well as formal and informal discussions. The different actors and possible forms of cooperation were clearly defined and better aligned. Finally, a major effort is being made at both internal and external recruitment levels to ensure that additional staff are recruited.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u31	These are good measures, Minister. The problem has been known for years and proposals for improvement have already been made. It is now time to implement the improvements that are on the table. The revision of the chain of command is a good thing. Cooperation at national level can be much better. It is also one of the recommendations of the Terror Commission to strengthen cooperation with state security. It would certainly be interesting, as we have already discussed in the past, to invite the new top man of ADIV here, to hear his views on the matter. This seems to me to be a good proposal, which we must make in concrete terms in the light of a regulation of the work. Then we can see what the improvements bring about in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u32	We will settle the work on 13 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament 21400 by Mr Calomne and No. 21065 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u34	Madam President, Minister, recently NATO decided to strengthen its support for Afghanistan. Belgium has thus committed itself to sending some 30 additional soldiers in support of the NATO mission. Currently, 62 Belgian men and women are engaged in the Resolute Support mission in Afghanistan. Minister, what is the latest state of affairs in Afghanistan? What are the current costs of the Resolute Support mission for Belgium? What would be the additional costs of sending about 30 additional soldiers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u35	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, the situation in Afghanistan is regularly described in the committee responsible for monitoring operations. In general, the security situation in this country remains fragile, including in the north where the majority of Belgian troops are active. The additional efforts of NATO countries are mainly focused on the Train, Advise and Assist part of the Resolute Support mission, in order to maintain the capabilities of the Afghan national defence and security forces. The costs of the Resolute Support mission represent, for the 2017 budget year, a total of €7,475,000 net for Belgium. The additional costs of sending some 30 additional soldiers for a period of 10 months in 2018 are estimated at a total amount of EUR 4,599,000 net.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u36	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u37	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank you, on behalf of the Socialist Group, for joining us in the mission to Lithuania on Friday. That was extremely interesting. We received information and were able to meet our soldiers on the spot. Minister, as every year, Defence will most certainly be called upon to make available, free of charge, some of its facilities or equipment for the benefit of the most deprived within the framework of the Great Cold Plan throughout the kingdom. My group has always strongly supported the principle of aid to the nation, which must be an essential mission of the army. As a reminder, for the first time, your government had called this principle into question by sending invoices – which were subsequently cancelled – as a result of budgetary restrictions affecting your department. Minister, has Defence ever been asked to develop and implement the 2017-2018 Grand Cold Plan? What infrastructure or equipment do you intend to make available? Will the provision of these resources not used by your department currently be made available free of charge?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u38	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, the missions you mention concern the local level. That said, Defence has already been asked in the development of the 2017-2018 Grand Cold Plan, both for the provision of accommodation and for the donation of equipment. As always, Defence will be ready if requested by social organizations for the provision of host infrastructure in four provinces. These facilities are the Lieutenant Joncker Medical District in Liège, the Albert King Camp in Marche-en-Famenne, the Bastin Headquarters in Arlon, the Wispelaere District in Jambes and the Allaeys Aviation Warrant District in Coxide. As last year, social care is limited to the cost of food and sleeping cleaning, as well as to possible abnormal expenses, such as those related to deterioration. In addition, Defence will be prepared, at the request of social organizations, to dispose, free of charge and definitively, of certain equipment items, as in the past. These are sweaters, trainings, gloves, underwear, blankets and shoes that my department no longer uses. However, it should be mentioned that the quantities available are limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. I didn't say the Defense was doing nothing! The purpose of my question was to make sure that the actions it carries out were carried out free of charge. I agree with you when you say that the missions I mentioned are the responsibility of the Regions; however, I believe that Defence has a duty to assist the nation. I don't think we'll ever have the same vision. I will not fail to ask you again, even though I already know that your answer will be the same. We both have a sequel in our minds!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u40	Minister, I'm still going to piss you off a little bit! This is far from the first time I have asked you about the critical situation at the Royal Military Hospital. For my group, as you know, the Royal Military Hospital is an institution that plays a crucial role in our National Defence, but also in the civilian care sector of our country. It provides essential services that civilian hospitals would find difficult to take care of, such as the service of the big burns, or the handling of disaster or bombing situations as we have, unfortunately, met a short time ago. The questioning of this hospital, as well as the announced minimization of the medical component, are choices that seem incomprehensible while the army wants to be more focused on operations abroad. As a result, medical risks could increase. In your strategic vision, you were trying to reassure us by saying that it is preferable to maintain a largely centralized and primarily military re-condition structure, both equipment and procedures different from equipment and procedures in the civilian health care sector. The facts speak for themselves. The outdated state of the building and the government's lack of consideration for the future of the institution are disturbing evidence of this. Your strategic vision, Minister, stated: "Risk studies and analyses under way with the FPS Public Health on its infrastructure capabilities must be completed in the short term." So what is the government's position on the future of the Royal Military Hospital, several months after my first question on this subject? What is the status of inter-cabinet consultations on this point? Can you also give us a more precise closing date for these analyses and for the conclusions you will draw from them? Do you intend to move certain missions carried out by the Royal Military Hospital to civilian hospitals outside the Neder-Over-Heembeek site or even the Brussels-Capital Region? What new military or civilian missions could the Royal Military Hospital provide in the future? What will be the consequences of your vision in dimensions rather than in components, where the doctor is absent as such, on the future of this institution? Finally, what is your assessment of the current state of the Royal Military Hospital building? Are investments on the current site planned in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u41	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I refer first of all to my answer to your question No 13884 of 26 September 2016 and to my answer to question No 19353 of 14 June 2017 by Mrs Jadin. The translation of the strategic vision into dimensions does not, as such, have an impact on the Military Hospital. I've said it a thousand times. Support for the military in operation and the condition of the military will continue to be a priority of military medical capacity. It is based on three pillars: an operational pillar, a conditioning pillar and a support pillar. Medical staff in the operational pillar who are not deployed in operation or in exercise shall maintain their competence within the conditioning pillar. This pillar is centralized within the Military Hospital. Defence has proposed management approaches for the various modules of the Condition Pillar. These proposals were subject to an independent audit. The conclusions and recommendations of the Working Group, as well as the composition and terms of reference of the inter-sectoral and interdepartmental technical working group, which is expected to operationalize the work, have recently been presented to the policy working group, the inter-cabinets. You know there's a difference between firms and administrations. The cross-sectoral and interdepartmental technical working group considers options for collaboration with civilian partners, while respecting key defence missions, and thus prepares final conclusions that may be subject to decision. Pending final conclusions and decisions prepared by this cross-sectoral and interdepartmental working group, the necessary and urgent investments will be made on the basis of available budgets, including whether they relate to infrastructure at the Neder-Over-Heembeek site.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. After hearing you, my group and I are no more reassured, which is why we have tabled three motions, namely a motion to secure the future of the medical component and the Royal Military Hospital, a motion to urgently carry out the work that will make the Royal Military Hospital sustainable, and a motion to integrate the Royal Military Hospital into the hospital network to harmonize the medical supply with other hospitals. Madam President, I wish to conclude my speech by thanking you for your willingness to change the organization of our agenda and for allowing me to ask my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u43	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Karine Lalieux and MM. Stéphane Crusnière, Jacques Chabot, Daniel Senesael and Alain Top read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the government - in the follow-up to the Strategic Vision and the audit carried out this year by independent experts, to ensure the future of the medical component and the Royal Military Hospital as prerequisites for the international projection of our military personnel, their well-being and health, as well as for several essential "nation support" missions currently carried out by the Royal Military Hospital; - to carry out urgently the work necessary for the sustainability of the hospital's facilities at its Neder-over-Heembeek site; - while preserving the "military" nature of the Royal Hospital, to allow, as part of the ongoing reform of the hospital landscape, its integration into a hospital network with a view to harmonising the medical supply with other hospitals." A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Karine Lalieux and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Jacques Chabot, Mr Daniel Senesael and Mr Alain Top, and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the reply of the Minister for Defence, with responsibility for Civil Service, calls on the Government - as part of the implementation of the strategic vision for defence and of the follow-up to the audit carried out this year by independent experts, to ensure the future of the Medical Component and of the Military Hospital of Lower Over Heembeek; without them, the deployment of our military forces in foreign operations is impossible and indispensable for ensuring their well-being and health; and the crucial task of providing assistance to the Nation that the Military Hospital is performing today should also be taken into account; - urgently carry out the necessary work to ensure the continued existence of the military hospital infrastructure in Neder-over-Heembeek; - to include the Military Hospital, while maintaining its military character, in a hospital network in the context of the ongoing reform of the hospital landscape and thus align its medical offer with that of other hospitals.' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Peter Buysrogge. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u44	Madam President, I thank the Minister and my colleagues for being so flexible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u45	I breathe flexibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u46	That is true, but that is the function of the example, Minister! Minister, the military defeat of the terrorist organization "Islamic State" is becoming increasingly evident. However, the situation in the region remains worrying. Beyond the immense complexity of the situation in Syria, Iraq is once again on the brink of the civil war following the referendum that the Kurdish regional government held on 25 September, in order to demand the independence of this autonomous region and – this is the most important – of the territories that Kurdish troops occupy outside it. In October, these territories were the scene of violent clashes between Kurdish troops, peshmergas, and Iraqi government forces, particularly between Kirkuk and Erbil, which constitute a strategic zone. In addition, it is important to note that the populations of the region are very diverse. There are Kurds, Turkmens, Arabs and, mainly, Sunnis. But the Iraqi government troops are essentially composed of Shiite Arabs; we have been discussing them here for many years. In short, the situation is very complex, despite the gradual disappearance of terrorists in those areas. Where, minister, my three questions. Does Defence still collaborate with Kurdish troops – the Peshmergas – and with Iraqi federal troops? If so, how? In this original situation where we support the two opposing sides, how does Defence manage these antagonisms? Were any of the exclusives of the two parties mentioned by either party? Finally, if the military and political situation does not improve between the peshmergas and the government troops, what will be the position of the Defence regarding the support to be given? In short, who will we end up supporting if these clashes continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u47	Mr Hellings, as was explained at the meeting of the Monitoring Committee on Military Operations Abroad on 18 October, the position of the Defence vis-à-vis the Kurdish and Iraqi partners depends on that of the international coalition against Daesh. Any change will be decided in consultation with our partners. In any case, be assured that we will not take any initiative in the event of an internal conflict in Iraq. We have taken steps to ensure our independence from the various parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u48	Minister, I understand that you have to keep the secret and I respect it. Even if, as you know, I am not in favour of in camera, I am respectful of the rules when they apply to us. However, this is a geostrategic issue. At the time of the war in Iraq and Syria, as much as we were extremely critical of the geostrategic interest of the airstrikes, so much we supported you in your initiatives, on many occasions, to train Iraqi soldiers, first in Baghdad and then in the north alongside the peshmergas troops, at a time when they were fighting the Islamic State. I have always insisted on the need to maintain this action, which I find positive, in the long term, but also to train Sunni soldiers. The challenge today is to be able to form an Iraqi national army composed in proportion to the communities that make up this country, a little like ours. So much so, one cannot imagine a Belgian army composed mainly of one or the other Belgian community, so much so, one cannot imagine an Iraqi army composed solely of one or the other community. We're at a tipping point. I hope that Belgium will continue to support this formation within the Iraqi national army and that it will always help ensure that this Iraqi army can be the image of the entire country, that is, composed of Sunnis, Shiites, Kurds and all the other communities in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u49	Madam President, Minister, about a month ago the VRT made clear what many suspected, in particular that there was a barracks plan on the table. According to that plan, the next barracks will be shut down. For Flanders: Koksijde, Ostend, Ypres, Gavere, Zutendaal, Tielen and Berlaar. For Wallonia: Glaaien, Nivelles, Jambes, Liège, Bastenaken, Tournai and Eupen. That plan is a concrete translation of the intention in your strategic plan to reduce the number of troops in the Defense Department to 25 000. Without expressing my opinion on the opportunity to close this or that barracks, Defence personnel are in any case anxious to be clear about the possible future places of employment. However, a government decision remains undecided. In response to the message from the VRT, you said that you will not close barracks during this legislature. Mr Minister, will there really be no decision on this dossier during this term of office? What are the obstacles to making a decision? What's the status of the plan ahead? Who drew up that plan? When does this version date? Is there any consultation with the unions on that file? For us, the attractiveness of employment in the Defense Department is important. One of the elements is the proximity of the work at the place of residence. So rationalization can also be exaggerated, making it difficult for military to move to their barracks, which certainly does not improve the attractiveness of Defence. We cannot support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u50	Madam President, Minister, my question is in the same context. Minister, in your strategic vision for defence over a year ago, you set out some broad lines for the future. In particular, the closure of barracks is mentioned. You said that your plan was ready, but that no real decision would be taken during this legislature. In the meantime, the concerns in the barracks remain. Mr De Vriendt has perhaps already spoken about West Flanders, which would be hit hard by the possible closure of the barracks of Lombardsijde, Koksijde and Ypres. I'd like you to give me an update on those files. The same applies to the Lemahieukazerne in Ypres. I would like to draw your attention to the symbolic value of that barracks, right in the front area of World War I. In that barracks 270 soldiers are working today, most of whom live in the area. What's the status of the file? Is this still under negotiation? Will decisions be taken during this legislature or with effect in the next legislature? There would be mails circulating about outsourcing. How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u51	Mr Minister, my first question follows on from the announcement by the VRT that there is a closure plan for barracks, with a possible closure of 14 barracks. The names and places were already mentioned here. You responded immediately by stating that no barracks would be closed during this legislature. Staff have been living in uncertainty since the beginning of this legislature and it is therefore time to provide more clarity to the military. An internal source tells us that there are already changes in practice. The CHOD would apparently not be able to wait for the political decision, because operationality could be compromised. For this reason, some units would already be transferred to other barracks. Can you confirm that or deny it? Can you explain the situation regarding possible mutations? My second question lapses, as you have already shown us that you do not close barracks during this parliamentary term. Last week, when we discussed your policy paper, we learned that the decision would not be taken until 2020. In any case, I think it is essential that staff be informed at least one year in advance of the place and date of change. Will this be taken into account? Thirdly, have the social partners already been contacted? What is the state of social dialogue? My second question is specifically about Koksijde. Minister, you said that no barracks will be closed in this legislature. In parallel with this announcement, however, the mayor of Koksijde says the following: "The possible closure is no surprise, so we have taken this into account in our master plan that we will propose together with the province on 19 December." It concerns 19 December 2017. "With the closure, a piece of history will disappear. It is with a touch of nostalgia that I remember the times in which Koksijde played the leading role in the series Windpower 10. The closure has no consequences for the development of the site. We continue to focus on living and the relocalisation of a number of municipal services. We will retain part of the airport so that sports planes can land there. In addition, we will propose to buy with the municipality one of the Seakings as a permanent memory." I have the following questions. The mayor of Koksijde is organising an information meeting, as if the decision to close is already a fact. Has there been any contact between you or your services and the municipality of Koksijde? If so, what is the result of that? Maybe the mayor of Koksijde is speaking out too soon? Are there any concrete plans to relocalise the site? If so, to what extent are you aware of these plans? Could you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u52	Minister, I would like to ask you again about the future of the Nivelles military pharmacy and more broadly about your plan for the geographic location of the barracks, as promised in your Strategic Vision. As my colleague said, the VRT recently referred to a list of military facilities that would close their doors. This list would have been circulating in ministerial offices for months without government approval. In Wallonia, the sites concerned would be located in Glons, Nivelles, Liège, Bastogne and Tournai. As a result of this information, you spoke on Twitter announcing that no barracks would be closed during your term of office. Is it true, Minister, that a list of barracks that would potentially be closed by this government is circulating within it? Does this government intend to implement its decision on page 141 of your Strategic Vision, namely, the submission of a plan to implement the geographic location of neighbourhoods before the end of the legislature and on what schedule? In this context, has there already been any consultation with the other levels of government concerned and with trade unions? Finally, more specifically, can you tell me more about the future prospects of the military pharmacy, its missions and its personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the roll-out of the strategic vision is in full swing. The large investment files for all components have been launched. At the same time, the files on outsourcing non-military tasks have also been launched. I confirm that, in line with the strategic vision, we have the prospect of moving from an army of 30 000 to one of 25 000 soldiers in the long term. That army with 25 000 soldiers in the long run will have the same ambitions as today and even more. This means that we will no longer do a number of things ourselves and thus outsource them. In the long term, outsourcing of contracts inevitably has an impact on infrastructure. That's pretty obvious. In this context, it is already demonstrating good governance to consider possible scenario scenarios in the area of infrastructure. Yes, so exercises have been done based on what is possible in the future and what is not. The famous document that has been published in the media is, indeed, a document that was discussed in the interkabinets working groups, IKWs, as there are so many documents circulating in interkabinets working groups. I do not, therefore, confirm or deny that the names mentioned therein are the correct ones. I am not saying whether or not that is the final document and whether that document will finally be on the government table. I confirm my starting point that no barracks will close before 2020, the closure of which had not already been decided by previous governments. It looks good to make a list of, among other things, the barracks of Glons. But we have finally released money to provide the military working in the CRC of Glons with a decent installation. By the way, I can give you some examples of quarters for which it is right to ask whether it is better to organise the work there in a different way, given the working conditions. Specifically about Koksijde, I can make the comparison with Gavere. No question has been asked about this, but everyone knows that we are looking for synergies. Everyone has noticed that I signed a cooperation agreement with Belgocontrol about three months ago, together with my colleague responsible for Mobility. It seems to me quite obvious that this has consequences. Anyone who succeeds this committee, Mr Top, knows that I have confirmed that we are talking to the Ostend airport to see what basis we can work on. If it is more efficient for us to cooperate with Ostend airport, I think we should. Soon, if we have time, we will be discussing the internal investigation. It is always good to say that this or that cannot be done, but those who are concerned about Defence should dare to look at the whole thing. I can tell you, Mr De Vriendt, that I have always said that I consider a regional distribution to be extremely important, especially in the field of recruitment. In any case, of the plan that was circulating, only half of it has been communicated in the media. Today it is said that it is a disgrace to close the barracks in Koksijde, but it is a matter of moving the core business over 20 kilometres. I do indeed dream of some other localizations that do not exist today, and which would not be bad for recruitment. If we stick to what's always been, it won't go forward. If we continue to communicate about this in the way that is happening today, uncertainty will remain. I gave certainty to the people two weeks ago. I said nothing will happen before 2020, nothing that was not already decided. I was at the first stone laying in Beauvechain. Well, the people there are very satisfied that they can finally go to a place that is wisely arranged that they can work as they should. We must all take the question of what defence needs. Then it is quite clear that for a good recruitment, a recruitment which is a cross-section of society, a spread will be necessary in the long term. In this context, it is of course always a pity that we are only talking about closures, but not about the opportunities and opportunities that are offered, everywhere and for all people. Mr Top, you know that we are in principle in conjunction with the trade union partners on Friday. It discussed the package of accompanying measures needed for persons who are part of restructuring, either geographically or otherwise. We have an agreement there, at least according to my information. This agreement specifically stipulates that those who are effectively impacted by structural intervention are well informed in advance, which is, by the way, only normal. We also know that the newspapers have already said that we have other plans with Zutendaal. I went there last week with the Americans to open the case. It is well known that we are going to do other things there. In the meantime, people know that we are going to do a number of things in a different way and that this will clearly have consequences. But once again, if this has an impact on people in the social sphere or on commuting and so on, we have agreed with the unions that we will communicate it in advance. I insist. There was indeed a plan. I can tell you that the demographics of 15 minutes are taken into account, the extent to which people are socially affected or not. I also know that we are going to have an internal debate, and I shall come back to it later on with regard to the famous internal investigation, and I am happy to tell you things that are based on nothing and that there is a desire to continue to stir up unrest. Why? I have no idea. I don't know who's gonna get better. In any case, neither do I, nor the military, nor the apparatus as a whole. Firstly, I confirm that nothing will happen before 2020 that has not yet been decided. Secondly, those affected by structural reforms are entitled to take a different approach to the formation, or the way in which SOCOM is built from the bilingual barracks in Heverlee. They are well informed in advance and there are agreements on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u54	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we can broadly follow your reasoning and considerations. Ecolo-Groen was never one of those who wanted to oppose any plan for rationalization or closure of barracks tout court. We therefore have a rather open mind in this area, but of course you have the accessibility that you yourself have indicated is an important criterion which must always be borne in mind. I also see that at first sight the Ostend airport can indeed be a good opportunity, but if we have to speak out for or against the closure of one particular barracks, in West Flanders or elsewhere, then all the elements must be considered, the complete dossier, the alternatives, the opportunity and then we can give a ruling. I now come to a more political question. You say it's been approved in multiple IKWJS. We're 2017. Isn't that what happens to make a decision? Why else would these plans circulate? You say that you will carry out nothing more than what has already been decided by a previous government, but that means that the current government will in fact decide nothing in terms of the closure or rationalisation of barracks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u55	We are doing a lot of work in the field of rationalization. We always want to align our operation with whether or not a barracks is open. A barracks open or closed means 40 to 50 staff support extra. Sometimes that is not even enough, because maintenance must be done, there are separate services and so on. Those exercises are all under way. In this context, we have allowed exercises to go around to give people clarity about where we are going and what will happen. However, let us be very honest, Mr De Vriendt: if you have read the strategic vision in full, then you know what will have to be done geographically. Then you just know that. We can then present ourselves with opportunities, but that must also be done in a general context. No decision is necessary today. We do not know whether the next government will make adjustments and changes. It may go back to 30 000 or 35 000 people. Given the evolving security situation, we may be able to do so, so we must not go too fast. However, take it from me that we have done a thorough study and that we have looked at demographics, distances, accessibility and so on. However, we have looked in particular at the tasks to be carried out and what is needed for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u56	Why is a closure plan already circulating?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u57	It is not a closure plan, Mr De Vriendt! Let us stop talking about a closure plan because that is not the finality of the story. It is about a possible future geographical distribution of the Belgian Defence in our country. It's not a closure plan. It's not my ambition to close. It is my ambition to have a good geographical distribution, efficient, sustainable and so on. That's the ambition. At the top of the plan is "geographical spread" and not "closure plan," Mr De Vriendt. There are crosses, arrows and red buns on it. A lot of exercises have been done. It seems to me normal for us to think about things. A decision is urgent for the staff, but a little less for the work we are doing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u58	In the note circulating, there is indeed the closure of a number of barracks. The conclusion is that there is no agreement within the majority on what needs to be done. Apparently there is also leaking from the IKW's to the press. You will probably not be able to decide anything during this term of office, and that is contrary to the certainty that the military have been asking for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u59	You can continue on that certainty and I say nothing will happen until 2020. That's the certainty they have. Can we focus on that, because that's three more years? For 10 000 staff, this corresponds to the end of their careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u60	That's not for sure! You say that they have three years left and that anything can change after 2020. That's not certain. That's just what's reported in the DOD's internal investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u61	Mr De Vriendt, if Green ever comes to power, everything will remain as it is for the defense. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u62	No, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u63	You're going to give certainty to the people now. You're gonna say nothing's gonna happen. That's the certainty you're going to give? I can't speak past 2019 because I won't normally be a minister anymore, normally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u64	Of course, politics can change a lot. Security is a horizon of 10 to 15 years, that is certainty. Security is not to say that 2.5 years remain and that only then can things change again. This while there are already designs of closures circulating. The military know that they are also discussed at government level and in the IKW's. You're talking about security. This is not a situation of much certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u65	Mr De Vriendt, the strategic vision goes until 2030. As always, the media has brought only what would stir up the most noise and dust. There has been no mention in the media of the time limit and the periods in which this is viewed. This has been done in the past. In the past it has been said that within a year we will be out of here. That's not what it takes. That's not what we need and what we can do. By the way, that was the last sentence of the same reporter who yesterday again brought out the juicy pieces of an internal document. You speak of "the document," but there are different documents, different studies, different ideas. Several calculations and investigations have been carried out. Take it from me that my proposal will take account of the geographical distribution, the social impact and the real needs of Belgian Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u66	I remember that this government will no longer make a decision. You just said that. It will be transferred to the next government in 2020. That's the conclusion of the story.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u67	The conclusion is indeed that the Council of Ministers, the government, does not come to a decision. I am not talking about a closure of barracks or a restructuring as you have proposed with different plans on the different IKWs. Things are already in preparation. Plans have been submitted to the government, to the IKWs. No decision is being made, but I do understand that there are changes in the field. I have not received any answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u68	Mr Top, I told you that restructuring is happening, that people are being mutated, that we are building SOCOM, that we are going to Belgocontrol!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u69	So you are even more concerned by the fact that some things are already being carried out in practice while the government has not yet taken a decision on this matter. That's the result of what's happening. Fortunately, there is already consultation with the social partners. I also welcome the fact that you have taken up the plan that your predecessor, Minister De Crem, had abolished. I am talking about the plan to take guidance measures at least a year in advance. I agree with the previous speaker. We do not say that it is a disgrace that a barracks should be shut down. But we're talking about the fact that there's no clarity about it. The strategic plan announces with great pride that there will be restructuring, with figures ranging from 25 000 to 30 000. However, this restructuring has not yet been carried out. That's what's worrying the military. As a result, local mayors are already starting to restructure those locations of barracks on their own, in your place. They are already making plans before the Council of Ministers has taken a decision. It has already come to that in our country: things are already being prepared from the bottom up, without you or the Council of Ministers having taken a decision on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answers. To hear you, I understand that you no longer hope to be a minister after 2019! When we look at the number of decisions that are being carried forward and the budgets that will have to be found following the decisions made under this government, the next Minister of Finance will have a lot of fun! You confirm that no decision is taken and that there will be no closure until 2020. I reiterate my request that consideration be given to these closures in consultation with the local authorities. You also need to think about the employment pools – especially in Wallonia – and their potential, if you want to maintain an attractive and proximity Defense. We are not seeking the closure of the barracks. The problem also lies – as you said – in the government's willingness to outsource a series of defence missions, which will result in the closure of barracks. I am thinking in particular of the military pharmacy in Nivelles. When we know the quality of the work and the potential there is in this pharmacy, it is regrettable to make the decision to outsource a series of things that concern the medical component. Let us not be naive, in the end it will lead to the closure of the pharmacy in Nivelles, which I very much regret. You must also understand the concerns of the military. A barrack closure has a very important impact not only for the military but also for their families. This uncertainty may be one of the reasons why there is such malaise in the army, as has been demonstrated by a recent survey of our military. Here too, we must be able to ask ourselves the right questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 21845 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u72	Mr Minister, this question brings me back to previous answers and to the topical and urgent debate. If I have understood the current reports correctly, it turns out that Defense has tightened the rules on the construction of windmills around the air bases and even recently installed a total ban for Koksijde and Florennes. Flemish Energy Minister Bart Tommelein calls for a relaxation, as it would increase the playing field and make it easier to achieve the European renewable energy targets. Minister Tommelein is working on a catch-up movement by 2020, and he expressed his disappointment at the defensive stance of Defense in a figurative sense. Mr Minister, the decision of the Defence Department to impose a total ban is contradictory to what you said in the Committee on Defence of 18 October last: 'I said from my start that we should go along with all the green energy and that we should treat dossiers favourably'. You will even continue to inform the members of the committee: 'You can assume that the defence and I share the importance of the further development of wind energy and that all changes and adjustments to flight procedures take maximum account of the applications of the sector. In addition, during formal consultations, Defense itself launched a proposal to allow wind turbines in military domains." You will understand that this raises questions for the aviation and wind energy sector, for your fellow Minister Tommelein from the Flemish Government, as well as for me. What's with the total ban, Minister? Are there any substantial reasons behind the ban, even if the European targets for 2020 are charged? Have you had contact with your colleague Bart Tommelein, Flemish Minister for Energy? In your strategic vision, we read that investments in radar systems are coming, including in 2017-2018. What is the state of play? Will the investments reduce the sensitivity of radar systems to disturbances caused by windmills? Will you continue to support the renewable energy targets, as you said earlier? Will you continue, as responsible minister, to engage in a constructive dialogue with all the actors involved in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u73	Mr Top, it is a good thing that someone still cares about the sector. Defence applies a number of conversion letters and guidelines for issuing advice for the installation of wind turbines. It's just advice. This will take into account military installations and activities such as military training zones and the location of the military pipeline as well as flight procedures around airports and the impact of wind turbines on radar images and means of communication. The strict application of existing laws and regulations with international standards ICAO and Eurocontrol is essential for our radar and auxiliary navigation equipment. Within the framework of the all-weather operations, the quality of the signal in space should remain within the specifications for the respective communication, navigation and surveillance systems, abbreviated CNS, used in support thereof. The purpose of the Directives is to examine whether the physical presence of an obstacle can have a negative effect on the availability or quality of the CNS signal. After all, a negative effect can have an impact on flight safety. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that the operationality of the defence sector and, in particular, the security of our personnel and of the people who are on the ground under flying harnesses cannot be called into question. You may agree. The current restrictive measures for Florennes and Koksijde are linked to the radars on site. The radars around Florennes and Koksijde don't belong to the Defense Department. In this context, I refer to my reply that I gave at the National Defence Commission of 18 October 2017. The investments in military radar systems in 2017 and 2018 have had to do with the improvement of our air surveillance. To filter out the effects of wind turbines on the radar images, Defence radar systems allow mitigations, so that the residual fraction no longer has a negative impact on flight safety. So, Mr Top, we have done what we have to do. Defence and I share the importance of the further development of wind energy. All developments and adjustments to flight procedures, as I have already mentioned, take maximum account of the sector's applications. I have already answered that in previous questions. It doesn't make any sense at all that the DOD would answer all the questions negatively. The opposite is true. In addition to all the measures taken since 2012, we introduced a number of relaxations in 2017, especially around the shooting fields in Helchteren and Elsenborn as well as around the airport in Ursel. It is also currently being considered whether the standards around the drop zones for paratroopers can take account of the wishes of the sector. The day someone hangs a parachute on a wick will be aware of what the Secretary of Defense has done. At that time, the Flemish wind energy sector will not write many open letters. Maybe they'll send an invoice for the damage that's been done. In this context, the Defence Department had provided a positive advice for turbines of 150 meters in the vicinity of Diest, such as the turbines that are already there. It is also being considered to move certain military training rounds in the North Sea. By the way, we have agreed to this with the Secretary of State responsible for the North Sea. Defence will continue to be constructive in the context of dialogue with the sector. We prefer to work with the sector organisation, not with individual companies. You can understand, I hope, that I cannot favour anyone or create the impression that I would do so. I can also tell you that in the meantime I have ordered that we consider whether we can do something ourselves in the field of renewable energy. There are probably such domains. This is more difficult for wind energy, but not for solar panels, for which we will soon come up with concrete actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can endorse what you say: Defence must guarantee its operationality, as well as the security of the personnel and everyone in the area. Everyone agrees with that point of view. I understand that you will continue to support the objectives of renewable energy and will continue to work constructively to make this possible in Belgium and in the various places where Defence is present. I continue to press for Defence to sit constructively at the table for continuous dialogue with the various sectors. I mean the Flemish government, the minister and the sector representatives, as you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u75	Minister, there has recently been a new cabinet in the Netherlands. You also have a new associate, Minister Bijleveld. Last week you mentioned a first contact during the budget discussions. In the meantime, the plans of the new Dutch cabinet on Defence have also been announced. You also said that in that first conversation it became clear that there was no impact on the current investment programmes. The existing commitments are thus maintained. That's good news. Minister, how will the ongoing files of the mine hunters and frigates proceed? The Dutch package refers to the purchase of four unmanned reconnaissance aircraft, known as Reapers. We have also mentioned drones that may be coming at the end of their lifespan. The strategic vision also refers to investing in such devices. Will the Belgian Defence team try to join the Dutch programme or will we organise a separate competition? Furthermore, I understand that the intention is to withdraw our military by the end of the year. Have any concrete agreements been made regarding the repayment of the F-16s? Do you have a concrete return date for our military?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u76	Mr Buysrogge, the government agreement of the new Dutch coalition ensures that the investment programmes can continue as planned. The Reapers, who wish to purchase the Netherlands, belong to the category of the MALE UAV RPAS, such as the systems mentioned in the strategic vision. However, such a type of weapon system can only be purchased on the basis of a government-to-government agreement between Belgium and one of the possible supplier countries. Direct cooperation with the purchase is therefore a bit more difficult. The process for the realization of phase 1 of the MALE UAV programme as set out in the strategic vision is ongoing. The Netherlands, of course, decides autonomously on the repayment of our F-16 debt. However, we assume that all agreements will be respected. There's no reason to believe this wouldn't happen. In principle, our F-16s will be back on December 26 or 27. For your information, I would like to inform you that tomorrow I will have a bilateral meeting in The Hague with the Dutch Minister and her Secretary of State on the Dutch plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u77	Thank you, Minister. It is very important for us to continue to work on good cooperation. There is now finally a cabinet in the Netherlands. Good bilateral relations, both in terms of operationality and investment programmes, are very important. The second time you have had a discussion with the Dutch Minister is a good thing. I think the conversation will be a little more profound now than the previous one. We welcome the continued commitment. You have announced that our military will return on 26 or 27 December. That's good. We've already talked about the well-being of our military. Maybe there'll be questions about that later. It is a positive thing that the soldiers currently staying in Jordan will be able to spend the holidays together with their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u78	Madam President, Minister, you laid the foundation stone for the new Beauvechain Air Safety Centre a few weeks ago. The latter will be responsible for securing Belgian airspace. Minister, can you give me an estimate of when the new Beauvechain facility will be operational? Can you also give me the number of people who will be responsible for securing Belgian airspace within this centre? Will new staff be recruited? What about the people who work at the Gloss Air Security Centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u79	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, according to the current schedule and the special specifications, the construction of the new safety and control centre in Beauvechain will be completed at the end of 2018. The relocation of systems and personnel is planned within six months of the end of the construction site in order to be operational by mid-2019. In order to guarantee continuous control, 185 persons will be responsible for securing Belgian airspace. In addition to on-going recruitment, there will be no additional need. Since the staff of the Glons Security and Control Centre have been informed of the move for a long time, they will receive an individualized plan for reassignment, relocation or pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answers and I am pleased to see the arrival of this centre in Beauvechain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u81	A new oceanographic exploration vessel is expected to replace the current Belgica by 2020. This debate was led by my colleagues during the discussion of your colleague in charge of scientific policy's general policy note. The acquisition of this new exploration ship by our country is, for my group, an important decision which confirms the Belgian commitment more than a hundred years ago to polar research in Antarctica. Since your department provides logistical support for the current ship and your colleague has not answered us on these aspects, I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Can you tell me whether the Defence will play a role on this ship, as is currently the case? What will this role be? At present, how many military personnel are seconded to the Belgica? It appears that the Secretary of State wishes to change the historic name of the ship, derived from the ship of Adrien de Gerlache. This name dates back to 1899 and embodies our country's commitment to polar scientific research. What is the position of the Defence in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u82	Chabot, the current collaboration is the subject of an agreement reached in 1995 between the Minister of Science Policy and the Minister of Defence. On the basis of this agreement, the marine component shall ensure, outside the defence budget, the conditioning, maintenance and implementation of the vessel. Currently, the Navy provides the crew and is responsible for maintenance and repairs. There are now 16 seconded military personnel in total: 15 on board and one person in charge of logistical and operational support. The future composition of the crew is still under consideration, but will normally be reduced, because the ship will be more modern. Future cooperation between Defence and BELSPO has not yet been discussed. The current convention will have to be renegotiated. The Navy will probably remain involved, but as the number of military personnel will decrease sharply in the coming years, it is not yet clear whether the same level of support can and should be guaranteed. The choice of the name of a ship is the prerogative of the owner. The Defence has no specific position on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would find it elegant that you can still favor the maintenance of the name of Belgica.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u84	We provide support, but the name of the ship is not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u85	Minister, on 13 November, 23 EU Member States, including Belgium, adopted a proposal on permanent structured cooperation in the field of security and defence (PESCO). A lot of articles have already been published on this subject. I've been going over it. Most are almost euphoric, the words "historical," "great steps forward," "massive renewal" and "breakthrough" are taken in the mouth. I'd like to hear your views on this, as Secretary of Defense. Which Member States do not participate in PESCO? Have they given any reason to do so? Will they leave a future accession open? What are the main obligations of this agreement for our defence policy? What are the main areas covered by PESCO's military cooperation? In which domains will the Belgian Defense Department cooperate? What are the prospects for industrial cooperation? Are there any Belgian firms interested in certain projects? If so, which one? What is the connection with the European Defence Fund announced by the European Commission? How will this fund be used to support PESCO? How is this fund financed? There are defense specialists, including Professor Mattelaer, who are more cautious and who think PESCO is more of a skinny animal. Will Europe, in your view, take important steps forward in the field of defence thanks to PESCO? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u86	Ms Grosemans, PESCO provided a political framework to strengthen European military resources through concrete projects in five broad areas: defence investment, the alignment of the various defence devices, increased operational deployment, the elimination of capacity shortages and participation in common European programmes that should have a positive impact on the European and defence industries. I agree that enhanced defence capabilities could and should benefit NATO and should therefore be complementary, coherent and interoperable. PESCO efforts will in particular need to strengthen the European pillar in NATO. Defence studies our country's participation in concrete PESCO projects. The government takes it for granted that we accept our responsibility for European defence cooperation. Twenty-three Member States have signed the joint notification. The countries joining PESCO must prove that they can meet the 20 accession conditions. To this end, they should present a National Implementation Plan (NIP). The first Belgian NIP is in the final phase of the editorial process. The UK, Denmark, Malta, Ireland and Portugal did not participate, but Ireland and Portugal have announced that they will participate. It was mainly a matter of internal decision-making for them. Belgium submitted four of the 48 projects, which are currently under study. These included projects on maritime demining systems, unmanned aircraft drones, drone defence systems and energy-efficient devel opable bases. These projects will be selected for development in a first phase 19. It is too early today to mention concrete Belgian companies that are interested, but it is true that there is a greater chance that Belgian companies will be able to participate in industrial consortia for projects in which the Belgian Defence Party participates. If the PESCO project is eligible for EDIDP (European Defence Industrial Development Programme), the project will receive 10% additional funding. The European Commission has proposed to offset contributions to the European Defence Fund in the same way as Member States' contributions to the European Fund for Strategic Investments, insofar as Eurostat agrees. Member States' defence investments are offset as any other investment and included in the budgets. At this stage of the consultation, Belgium has not yet taken a position in the Federal Coordination Body on the interpretation of the charging of military investments. My personal view is that, if we really want to move forward, progress will have to be made in this area too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic771x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. At least we will be following these developments very closely. As far as the European Defence Fund is concerned, I can only hope that this will really focus on capacity shortages and essential capacities that are in short supply in Europe. We can only hope that this will not be something like the Agricultural Fund, where the pot will be distributed randomly among the Members.
