ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u1	Oral question No 17630 by Mr Marcel Cheron was postponed. Joined oral questions No 17789 and No 17863 of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Gilles Vanden Burre and Gautier Calomne to the Prime Minister will be discussed in exchange with the Prime Minister on May 30.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, in a press release, you yourself announced, a little over a year ago, a series of measures to support as much as possible the Belgian victims of terrorist acts. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry itself submitted an interim report on victim support a few weeks ago, given the feeling that they had been somewhat abandoned. This is the subject of my three questions on victim support. Firstly, the Committee of Inquiry had proposed the creation of a task force to better coordinate and make more effective, simpler and coherent the assistance to victims who felt a little bit like having to deal with themselves in the maze of our institutions. This task force is, it seems, still not operational. What about it? Can we hope that it will be put in place quickly? I know that initiatives are under way but is it really operational today? What will its methods of action be and what will its priority projects be? Secondly, how much was actually paid to the victims today for physical, material and moral damage? How many victims are affected by these benefits? Thirdly, the work done by victim associations in terms of helping and supporting each victim according to their own needs is very important. At least two associations have been active in Belgium for several months. This work deserves to be emphasized and supported with conviction. Unfortunately, according to my information, these victims' associations do not receive any support from the public authorities. When and how does the government intend to support these victims in terms of financial, material and recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u3	Mr President, in response to the first question, following the double terrorist attack that struck our country in March 2016, in addition to the desire to be mobilized for the safety of citizens after the attack, one of the first concerns was to try to consider the most appropriate support for the victims in the medical, financial and administrative fields. All the relief, assistance and police services have made every effort to help, treat and accompany the injured and the families as best they can. I would once again like to commend them for their dedication and their work precisely one month after 22 March. In the following month, the federal government approved a package of measures presented by the Minister of Justice to support the victims of attacks, including the establishment of a one-stop shop to facilitate victims' efforts with the Special Fund to Assist Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence and Casual Rescue; the ceiling for urgent financial assistance was doubled from 15 thousand to 30 thousand euros to enable victims to meet urgent expenses; similarly, the ceilings for the main financial assistance for the damage suffered were increased from 62 thousand to 125 thousand euros; the conditions for granting assistance were eased so that victims could benefit from it as soon as possible. To date, the total amount of aid paid by the Fund amounts to EUR 1.3 million. Secondly, the adoption at first reading of a preliminary draft aimed at creating a national security status for the victims of the attack. Several months ago, like many Belgians and many members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, I was shocked by the testimony of several victims before the Committee of Inquiry. I myself met a number of victims as well as representatives of the two associations V-Europe and Life4Brussels. Each time, these meetings resulted in frank, sincere and open exchanges and we measured the practical difficulties encountered by the various victims in such a painful ordeal. This was, for the first time, the implementation of an accompaniment and support scheme for victims of attacks in Belgium. We are well aware, I say and repeat, that not everything has gone perfectly and that the feelings of the victims are not necessarily uniform. We found ourselves after the attacks in an unprecedented situation. We must learn from it, look objectively at what worked correctly and what did not work well to draw conclusions and improve our devices. In recent months, intense reflections have continued in an intercabinet working group and this has led to a number of concrete advances. On 15 March this year, together with the Minister of Justice, we reached the conclusion of a decree allowing the Belgian State to recognise the victims of attacks abroad of Belgian nationality or habitually resident in Belgium. This first step was essential for the finalization of the preliminary draft law establishing a status of national solidarity. A second reconnaissance order will soon be issued to update this list following the Stockholm bombing in which one of our compatriots unfortunately lost his life. Finally, the project on the creation of a national solidarity status for the award of a compensation pension and the reimbursement of medical care following terrorist acts was tabled in the Chamber and presented to the Public Health Committee. The work will now be continued in the light of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. As a result of the various meetings with victims and associations, we found some problems in the treatment of victims' compensation cases by insurers. In the face of the difficulties expressed, I convened the Justice Committee and the representatives of Assuralia to obtain clear commitments from insurers to speed up and increase compensation. In most cases, this increase consists of doubling the amounts and accelerated compensation for moral damage. This commitment was ratified by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2017. Our intervention with insurers resulted in results, as the actual payment of compensation for moral damage was multiplied by seven, on March 31, 2017, to amount to €2,790,000 by that date. I can also inform you that the principal insurers in objective RC on both sites have contacted the victims individually or spontaneously paid an indemnification or supplementary provision in fulfilment of the commitment made by Assuralia. As we approached the commemorations of 22 March, we also wanted to establish a dialogue with the representatives of the victims to involve them as closely as possible in the preparation and modalities of the commemorations. Finally, on Sunday, 14 May, the federal government organized a thematic Council of Ministers on security, justice and defence. On this occasion, the Minister of Justice and Public Health presented the various actions and decisions taken to assist victims, in particular in the light of the recent recommendations of the commission of inquiry. First, the government decided, in accordance with the recommendations of the commission of inquiry, to create an inter-federal task force. This item will be submitted to the next consultation committee. In addition, the mandate given to this task force aims to develop a system that will speed up compensation and implement subrogation in connection with the new law on fault-free liability and be part of a more individualized follow-up and support approach for victims. In collaboration with the Ministers of Justice, Economy, Health and Finance, the recommendations for the single, opposable medical expertise will be integrated in order to improve and speed up compensation procedures and procedures. Finally, as we have already pointed out, a solution will be developed for non-resident victims with a regime similar to the status of solidarity. We will do so under the Victims Fund. As you can see, we want to act strongly in connection with Parliament on this issue. We want to learn the lessons. I had the opportunity to inform the associations that I met that the Chancellery was available to examine how, if they so wished, support for more structural associations could be considered and decided upon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u4	Prime Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u5	According to the information available, a total of EUR 21 million was released for the victims at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u6	On this question, how should this figure be interpreted in relation to the 1.3 million you mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u7	The victims' compensation fund component is housed in the Department of Justice. There is the first component of victim compensation, violence, in the Department of Justice, and the second component of insurance compensation. To really complement the point, the insurance law and contracts do not allow compensation without consolidation of the damage. This explained that, initially, insurance was reluctant to release amounts. They agreed, at the government's request, to derogate from this rule and to release amounts without waiting for consolidation. You are a doctor, you know that in this type of damage, especially bodily damage, time is needed to see when consolidation occurs. For the future, this is probably a point that needs to be addressed, because this situation leads a little structurally, I would say, to a long time between the moment of damage and that of compensation, in connection with this consolidation which must be seen by medical experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u8	Thank you for the explanation. I will probably file a written question to have all the details based on the moral, physical or material damage, the part taken over by the insurances, the part taken over by the fund, etc. I also hear your explanations. I also think that we must be very careful and point out that the insurance companies still had their ears pulled, because they were dragging their feet. Beyond the rather technical issues such as these, there was still, I think, a lack of consideration of these attacks and of the impact on the victims. I also take note of the announcement of the creation of the inter-federal task force. I regret that it takes so long. We are talking a lot about speeding up support for victims, but in reality we see that it takes a lot of time, since this proposal was already conceived through the one-stop shop a year ago, and then was renewed by our committee of inquiry through the task force. I really think it's extremely important. For the victims, there is this feeling that the complexity of our institutions and the types of aid, as well as the fact that they themselves are confronted – alone, often – with insurance, do not make life easier for them. In this area, it is more than a high time to set up personalized and proactive assistance for the benefit of each victim. For the rest, we will of course be following closely the developments in the Committee on Public Health concerning the recognition of the status of victims and the equal treatment of all victims, be they Belgian or foreign.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u9	The additional question No. Mr De Vriendt converted 18119 into a written question. Mr Hedebouw is not present. Does he have his question No. I consider 18114 to be withdrawn in accordance with Rule 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure, not before the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u10	Prime Minister, this week you will represent Belgium at the NATO summit. That night, we once again experienced horror. I would first like to express, of course, all my solidarity with the English, and to tell them that all our thoughts are with the victims and the families. At the Council of Ministers on 28 April, you voted on an important point concerning the fight against cybercrime. You have also had the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) approved with NATO on cyber defence cooperation. According to a statement you signed, it was the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) that developed the National Cyber Emergency Plan, in collaboration with the Government's Coordination and Crisis Centre, as part of its mission of crisis management in case of cyber incidents. Indeed, in recent years, the number of cyber incidents has increased significantly, which represents a real risk. In 2016, the Computer Emergency and Response Team (CERT) recorded an average of 1,300 notifications and other cyber crimes each month. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like more information on the plan. How is it articulated? What are the priority actions that it entails and that you wish to carry out? What measures and budgets have been put in place to strengthen the capacity of the police to investigate and combat cybercrime? I still have a few technical questions. What is the estimated cost of cyber incidents for your services and/or administrations during the 2014 to present period? Have you seen a decrease or increase in the number of cyber incidents caused to your services and/or administrations during this period? What measures are provided for in this plan to address this problem? Thank you for the answers you will not fail to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u11	Prime Minister, indeed, following the global cyberattack that struck over 150 countries last weekend, you convened an extraordinary Security and Justice Council, which was planned. He announced six cybersecurity measures:- the creation of a 24-hour call centre; - the establishment of an alert system for vital sectors; - the organisation of an information campaign aimed at SMEs; - the introduction of a new cyber-risk analysis tool for federal departments; - the establishment of an international computer security centre within the federal government; - the expected transposition of the European Network Information Security (NIS) Directive. Cybersecurity is a major issue. Cybercrime is the first economic crime reported by businesses since 2015. My group has long called for a concrete, operational, cybersecurity strategy. The government has announced this on several occasions. There is an urgent need to reach a conclusion on this issue. Belgium may not yet have fully taken stock of the stakes. A national strategy in that regard was essential. This is an issue for the security of citizens, businesses and institutions. We have repeatedly been subjected to massive attacks by malicious operators. Prime Minister, when will the call centre actually be available 24 hours a day? Where will this call centre be hosted? Are there any commitments to ensure this permanence? What are the vital areas covered by the alert system? What will be the alert mechanism put in place? What are the specific themes highlighted during the SME information campaign? When and in what form will it be organized? What will be the new opportunities for the cyber-risk analysis tool? Who will be responsible for its control and effectiveness? What procedures will be put in place to detect a risk? How long will all federal services be equipped with this new tool? How long do you expect the extension to the private sector? What will be the missions of the IT Security Operations Centre within the federal government? What are the deadlines for the implementation of the new European NIS Directive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u12	Mr Dallemagne, I cannot let you say that the government would not have taken the measure of the stakes. It is true that, under the previous legislature, announcements were made. When this government established itself, absolutely nothing existed. We're starting from scratch. Two and a half years ago, there was no centre, no counsellor in charge of this subject. There was absolutely nothing, not even a budget. It is with pleasure that I can tell you today that, since then, actions have been taken. But it is true that a catch-up work has to be done so much the inaction has been calamitous under the previous legislatures. As a result of the development of information technology, communication and the interaction of these methodologies with our way of life or with the growing use of information technology, we have seen a new form of cyber threat in recent years. About ten days ago, more than 150 countries were confronted with a cyber attack by a ransomware of unprecedented magnitude. This global attack illustrates the risks and challenges that all countries and leaders now face. If Belgium has been affected little by this attack, we are more aware than ever of the extent of our task in the face of this new threat. As soon as he took office, we operationalized the Belgian Cybercrime Centre, announced two years earlier by the government. As a reminder, the CWB is responsible for coordinating and supporting cybersecurity in Belgium. Its tasks are defined by a royal decree of 10 October 2014. Today, the centre is operational, it has seen its structure expand since the integration of the computer security emergency response team. That's what we call CERT.be. Together, the two structures currently employ 25 people. The integration of CERT.be within the CWB demonstrates the desire to develop as integrated a strategy as possible. It also aims to better respond to the challenges of network security. The staffing framework is expected to expand further by the end of the year to include a total of 34 full-time equivalents. I remember two years ago, there was nothing. In terms of implementation, the CWB has already been able to achieve a series of results by filing projects targeting the three target audiences: the citizen at home, workers and employers, and vital infrastructure. First, we conducted national cybersecurity awareness campaigns in 2015 and 2016. An anti-DDoS system has been installed on the computer equipment of federal organizations. A No More Ransomware partnership to limit and prevent piracy with the requirement of a ransom has been implemented. Various prevention and awareness-raising initiatives have also been carried out, including the creation of a guide, Cyber Security Incident Management Guide, for companies, in collaboration with the cyber coalition, a platform that reaches out to several actors, including the private sector. Finally, we have made the distribution of cyber security kits to SMEs to make employees aware of simple actions in terms of cyberprevention. We have also validated a MoU with NATO to have a partnership and to make better use of NATO's expertise in the context of this threat we face. At the last thematic Council of Ministers, the random timing, which took place on the weekend of this global attack, further decisions were taken. In the area of awareness-raising and prevention, new awareness-raising campaigns in the national plan will be implemented in 2018, in particular on SMEs, which are potentially equally fragile in this area. Finally, an anti-phishing project currently being finalized will soon allow Belgian netizens to check the legitimacy of a URL for free. With regard to crisis management, on 14 May we decided to continue the Early Warning System project. This project aims to build a platform for the exchange of information on incidents and vulnerabilities to vital sectors. A budget of $6 million will be made available for this purpose. The vital sectors covered by the Early Warning System are critical infrastructure and operators of essential services, e.g. energy, transport, drinking water supply, health care, banks, financial and digital infrastructure, telecom operators, essential IT services of the authorities. A tool to limit the number of infected computers in the botnet network is also being developed. An Incident Crisis Management System for actors involved in managing a cyber crisis will also be developed. Finally, at this extraordinary Council on 14 May, it was also decided to make available to federal public services a tool for managing and analysing cyber risk, called Monarch. A budget of €550,000 is allocated. This tool, which will be centralized at the Chancellery and CWB level, should allow for an accurate assessment of cyber risks based on ISO standards. In concrete terms, it is an analysis web application, which simplifies risk management by partly automating it and aims to quickly offer solutions to IT managers. These important decisions to enhance the cyber security of our infrastructures and businesses will have to speed up the catching-up of Belgium in the area of cybersecurity. In the area of training, we have also taken a number of concrete actions. Online courses on cybersecurity will soon be available for SMEs. A new Cybersecurity Expert Training course for public service staff will be provided. Training in this area is being implemented by the CWB in collaboration with the Federal Administration Training Institute and will be included in the training catalogue. To be concrete, 500 places are proposed in 2017 for a budget of 750,000 euros. The first training courses will be organised from June until December. In addition to these courses, the Institute also offers free online cybersecurity courses. This three-hour course provides basic knowledge in cybersecurity, understanding terminology, recognizing incidents, and applying first-hand solutions. As you know, we are also working with the CWB on the transposition of the European NIS Directive, which is actually aimed at ensuring a higher level of network and information system security in the European Union by setting minimum cybersecurity standards and standards. Work is currently under way within the intercabinets. This is obviously an extremely important, technically complex job, as you can measure, I imagine. In addition to the measures already mentioned, in April 2017, the government also approved a national cyber emergency plan for Belgium. This plan contains a description of the categories of cybersecurity incidents or crises, the role of the various actors, the assessment and recording of incidents and crises, the procedures to be followed, the mechanisms for communication and exchange of information, as well as training and exercises. This plan should allow for a better response to incidents and cyber crises. In concrete terms, there are three levels of incidents. This plan determines, for each level, the treatment procedure to be followed. Level one is a national cybersecurity crisis. Level two is a national cybersecurity incident. It is a national incident, when a national cybersecurity event has a rather limited impact on the vital interests of the country or the vital needs of the population. Level three is a small-scale cybersecurity incident. All cyber security events that do not meet the definition of a national crisis or cyber security incident are considered small-scale incidents. The drafting of this plan did not require additional resources, since each partner department used and mobilized the resources at its disposal to prepare the plan in question. With regard to the increase in cyber security incidents and their cost, you are right, the police are seeing a steady increase in the facts related to cybercrime. According to police databases, the number of incidents reported was already 14,599 in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 17,981 for the entire year 2015. It is obviously difficult to quantify the exact cost. However, if I use Cyber Security Coalition figures, this coalition estimates the cost of cybercrime at €3.5 billion, or more than 1% of GDP. It's still an interesting piece of information. In accordance with the decision of the Thematic Council of Ministers of 14 May, the CERT.be, which is now transferred to the CWB as I have indicated, should extend its services to one system 24 hours a day and seven days a week for the benefit of businesses and vital sectors. The aim is to make this work enforceable in the course of 2018. It will not be easy, because we will have to prevent call centers from being flooded with communications that may not correspond to cyber incidents, but rather to conventional or more common computer problems. We will therefore have to be very careful in preparing for the operationality of this objective. CERT.be will also set up a cyber security operations center in 2019 for the benefit of the federal public sector. This centre should allow for a comprehensive and integrated approach to managing cyber threats and risks related to the IT networks of some of the government's vital infrastructure. The mission of the centre will be to prevent, detect, monitor and coordinate responses to incidents. This means that in addition to its twenty-four officers, the CERT will recruit twelve qualified officers for this purpose. Budgets for the strengthening of investigative capacity and the fight against cybercrime take into account the needs and provisions of the cyber contingency plan. Internal police measures for its implementation need to be further refined. In addition, the personnel plans also provide for an expansion of the capacity of the RCCU (Regional Computer Crime Unit) and the Federal Computer Crime Unit of the Federal Police. Finally, the training of future cybersecurity experts is, of course, an extremely important issue, which is primarily the responsibility of the Communities. However, as part of its mission of coordination between the services and authorities concerned, but also between public authorities, the private sector and the scientific world, the CWB develops – at my request – initial contacts with universities to try to promote cybersecurity training. These are some of the information I wanted to share with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u13	Prime Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. We will now take the time to analyze your answers, which are in the right direction – that's the least I can say. I wanted to ask you for a list of private partners who are contributing to the platform. Could you send it to me? I will of course come back to discuss with you the implementation of the plan to combat cybercrime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u14	Prime Minister, I understand that you are committed to defending your government's action, but I find that cartooning is never a good argument. To tell us that it was zero, nothing under the previous government of which you were a member and that you supported it, I think it's a caricature. The CERT you mentioned several times in your reply already existed under the previous government. He was doing a very useful job. That it was insufficient at the time, I do not disagree. I had also tabled a resolution in Parliament. It seems obvious to me that it is still insufficient today. In fact, that's why you're announcing a whole series of measures and you're talking about catching up. When we talk about catching up and are beyond the middle of the legislature, it is a bit difficult to invoke essentially problems related to the past. I welcome the fact that, it seems, major risks are finally being assessed. You recalled the costs: 1% of gross national wealth. The means used, still today, are insufficient. The strategy is still largely under development. I'll be very attentive. The elements you put on the table are obviously positive. I will be very attentive to the rapid implementation of this strategy and to the mobilization of real resources to meet the challenges. That is why I am tabling a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u15	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Dallemagne and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government - to develop a national cybersecurity strategy based on an integrated approach that enables effective action to be taken in response to the threat while ensuring respect for our fundamental rights and freedoms; - to ensure the state's ability to respond to cybersecurity, cybercrime and cyber defence; - to provide the technical and human resources necessary for an effective strategy to be put in place to meet the challenges of cybersecurity; - take initiatives to encourage the private sector to become aware of the existing cybersecurity risks, so that they take the necessary protective measures." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Dallemagne and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government - develop a national cybersecurity strategy based on an integrated approach that allows for an effective and threat-oriented approach while respecting our fundamental rights and freedoms; - to ensure a government response capacity in the areas of cyber security, cybercrime and cyber defense; - provide the technical and human resources necessary for the implementation of an effective strategy tailored to the challenges of cybersecurity; - take initiatives to encourage the private sector to take into account existing cyber security risks in order to ensure that those actors take the necessary protection measures." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Emmanuel Burton. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Emmanuel Burton. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Debates of the European Parliament 18470 by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u16	Prime Minister, I have been interested in this theme for a while. Now that I am allowed to take up the chair of the political renewal working group, it is one of the issues raised. It concerns the Royal Decree of 19 July 2001 which states that a former Minister or State Secretary is entitled to two full-time employees during the entire term of office. A similar system also existed for the Flemish Parliament, but the Bourgeois Government abolished it. The new regulation in the Flemish Parliament offers only former ministers and secretaries of state who no longer reside in Parliament the possibility of having one employee for two years. Two years ago, you informed this committee, following oral question 3715, that you were prepared to examine the possibility of amending the relevant KB during the legislative period, despite the fact that it was not included in the government agreement. You also mentioned that a note had been drawn up by the cabinet of former Prime Minister Leterme on this subject. For the Prime Minister, the rules would remain unchanged. The remaining ministers would be subject to the following limitation on the basis of the duration of their ministerial duties: at least one year, if they performed their duties for a maximum of one year, two years if they did so for less than two years, and four years for the rest. The Leterme Government and the Di Rupo Government never reached an agreement on this. That's why I'm asking you to follow up. What former ministers and former Secretary of State still make use of this arrangement and what is the cost of it? Have you, in your capacity as Prime Minister, prepared a proposal to amend the Royal Decree of 19 July 2001? If so, when did this happen and what is its content? If not, what is the timing to work this out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u17	Mr Prime Minister, the chairman of this committee has already indirectly referred to my oral question No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I also questioned you in 2014 about the fact that former ministers and former Secretary of State still have two full-time employees in the next legislature. At that time, I asked you whether this is still justified in times of savings. You said that the budget included a budget of EUR 103 000 per ex-excellency. You also said at the time that you were prepared to reform or abolish this scheme, but that you did not intend to do so during the present legislature. In the meantime, we have seen that part of the Flemish government can do this. During the current term of office, this regulation, which also existed there, can be partially abolished. This has become even more topical. The previous speaker referred to it. There is the Working Party on Political Renewal which is currently active in the Chamber. You said that you were going to study proposals, but we have not heard from them. Hence my questions, Prime Minister. What is the current state of play with regard to the use of this scheme? What is the actual cost of this at the moment? It is not because you provide EUR 103 000 per excellence that this is also used up by all 12. In the meantime, have you taken an initiative to abolish or reform this scheme, especially for those who are currently using it? When can we expect concrete results? Will that only be in another legislature, or will you make it more applicable? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u18	First of all, the numbers. The theoretical cost is about 1.6 million euros. The real cost is de facto about EUR 900 000 because not everyone uses this option. Secondly, I confirm that I am a fortiori in this context, in the circumstances of political renewal, willing to continue working in this legislature to have an effect in the next legislature. I will certainly inform Parliament as soon as possible about our initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. It is a pity that you cannot immediately tell me which ministers and which secretaries of state are actually using this arrangement because you...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u20	I'll get you the list, no problem. I'll do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u21	Very good. In the light of the work and also in the light of the discussion that has taken place in plenary, it is certainly a good signal that you want to encourage this to ensure that a solution is found. If it is not in the coalition agreement, this means that negotiations will still have to be held during this period. I hope it will be completed as soon as possible. The sooner the sooner, the better for me, but at least before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his brief reply. I'll take a look at the list of the ex-excellencies who use it. At least I expected a timing. You have said that you will come up with a solution as soon as possible. That was the answer I received on 9 June 2015. It is a pity that it is not yet being done in the current legislature, because if the real cost is EUR 900 000, there is room for savings. This would be very welcome in the budgetary adjustment currently under discussion in the Chamber. In any case, I will follow up on this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic668x.u23	As Mr Hedebouw has not shown up for this sitting, his question No. 18114, in application of Article 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure, considered repealed.
