ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-24-54-plenair-ip183x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-24-54-plenair-ip183x.u2	By letter dated 28 July 2017, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 28 July 2017 entitled "Government - Dismissal - Appointment'. By letter dated July 28, 2017, the Prime Minister transmitted a copy of the Royal Order of July 28, 2017 entitled "Government - Resignation - Appointment". By way of notification Pour information
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-24-54-plenair-ip183x.u3	By letter dated 28 July 2017, the Prime Minister informed us that Mr Denis Ducarme, member of the Chamber of Representatives, took the oath as Minister of the Federal Government. By letter dated July 28, 2017, the Prime Minister reported that Mr. Denis Ducrame, a member of the House of Representatives, had been sworn in as Minister of the federal government. Article 50 of the Constitution states that "A member of one of the two chambers appointed by the King as Minister and appointing him shall hold his office and resume his term of office when the King has ceased his office as Minister. Article 50 of the Constitution provides that "the member of one of the two Chambers, appointed by the King as Minister and accepting him, shall cease to sit and resume his term of office when he has been terminated by the King as Minister". According to Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incomparencies and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as the members and former members of the legislative chambers, the Minister or State Secretary of the Federal Government who ceases to sit shall be replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which the Minister was elected. According to Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, the minister or Secretary of State of the federal government who ceases to sit is replaced by the first substitute in order of the list on which the minister was elected. Since the first successor, Mr Richard Miller, sits in the Chamber in place of Mrs Marghem, appointed Minister for Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, the successor who will replace Mr Denis Ducarme is Ms Isabelle Galant, second successor. Since the first alternate, Mr. Richard Miller, sits in the House in place of Ms. Marghem, appointed Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, the alternate to replace Mr. Denis Ducrame is Ms. Isabelle Galant, second alternate. Mrs Isabelle Galant's credentials were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Isabelle Galant's credentials were validated in our June 19, 2014 session. Since the additional examination required by Article 235 of the Choice Code refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the present circumstances, is purely formal. I therefore propose that this successor be admitted and sworn in as a member of the Chamber of Representatives in place of a member appointed by the King as Minister or Secretary of State for a period of office. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission and swearing-in of this alternate to sit as a member of the House of Representatives in place of a member appointed by the King as Minister or Secretary of State and during his term of office. I would remind you that the successor who replaced or replaced a Member following his appointment as Minister, retains the rank he had as successor, in case a mandate falls open pursuant to Rule 12 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. I recall that, pursuant to rule 12, third paragraph, of the Rules, an alternate who replaces or has replaced a member appointed as a Minister shall retain the rank he had as an alternate in the event that a term becomes vacant. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I would ask Mrs Isabelle Galant to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mrs Isabelle Galant to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-24-54-plenair-ip183x.u4	Mrs Isabelle Galant will be part of the French language group. Isabelle Galant will be a member of the French linguistic group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-24-54-plenair-ip183x.u5	The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 September 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 21 September 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
