ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u1	We shall now deal with the questions in the order in which they were tabled. The questions that can no longer be asked today will be discussed next Tuesday. It is possible to postpone today's questions to next week's committee meeting. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Pivin's 1996 and 19878 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 19964 by Mr Vanden Burre, who is not present, is postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u2	Minister, last June, you announced in the press your willingness to propose a reform on the tax advantage of dependent children. In concrete terms, the idea is that a fixed amount, identical for each child, regardless of age and place in the family, is exempt from taxes, and this is not related to the number of children in the household. Since then, there have been a lot of reactions and it must be noted that you have therefore launched a real debate on a central issue for families. For our group, the reflection should take place and we are therefore open to discussion. It is true that family structures have changed significantly in recent years, with, for example, an increase in the number of single-parent families, with a majority of single mothers. It is therefore necessary to respond to these changes in society and this reform could contribute to this. But it is also important for us that such a measure, more adapted to the new sociological and demographic realities, remains budgetaryly neutral. Minister, I come to my questions. Can you give us the outline of the reform you want to propose? What exactly is the scope of the project and its tax implications? To the extent that this text was to be adopted by the Government, what is the timetable for carrying out this reform? Have you already chosen the widest possible timetable for consultations, including, of course, the representatives of the families in the north and south of the country? What is the agenda already set for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u3	Mr Calomne, I have indeed drawn up some proposals on the subject you have just addressed. They will be discussed within government in a timely manner. As part of the fight against poverty, the Government has decided to provide additional support to the single taxpayer with limited professional income and one or more dependent children. The maximum amount taken into account for the federal child care tax reduction will also be increased for single taxpayers with limited professional income and dependent children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u5	Mr President, Minister, cadastral income is notified in accordance with Article 495 of the Income Tax Code. The notification bulletins do not contain any information on the cadastral income itself. The obligor does not know where the amount notified to him comes from, if it results from a comparison between cadastral income or from the use of the net normal rental values on 1 January 1975, if certain elements have been assessed by the assessor, etc. Nor does he know how the useful area of his building has been calculated, or even what this concept covers. In the face of this total lack of transparency, the debtor who wishes to lodge a claim against the cadastral income notified to him must deduce, or even guess, the origin of this amount and the methodology followed by the administration. However, the State party is required to object to the administration's cadastral income in order for its claim to be admissible. This counter-proposal is also necessary to determine whether it will have to bear the costs of any arbitration. Minister, do you or do you not consider that the bulletins of notification of cadastral income are adequately motivated, in the light of the Act of 29 July 1991 on the formal motivation of administrative acts? Is not the debtor de facto unable to defend another rental value of his building? Are you considering, where appropriate, an adaptation of the cadastral income notification bulletins to enable the person responsible to understand their content and to be able to react, if necessary, with full knowledge of the facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bulletin of notification of cadastral income is accompanied by an explanatory note containing the information necessary for understanding the determination of cadastral income. It also contains the technical characteristics of the building and a statement of reasons for the reasons for the notification. In any event, before filing a claim, the taxpayer has two months during which it is possible to contact the expert of the administration, in order to obtain all the necessary explanations regarding the correct understanding of his cadastral income. This practice is, moreover, regular and meets the needs of citizens. In an actual claim, it is also possible for the taxpayer to request, before the arbitration procedure, the tax conciliation services which manage this type of dispute free of charge within the SPF. If concrete proposals for changes or clarifications are made, I am fully prepared to consider them seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u7	Minister, there are places where there is no notice accompanying the communication of cadastral revenues. It's a fact. [[Having said that, I have heard your suggestions with regard to setting up a file, and I will certainly make use of them.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u8	Minister, given the length of my question and since I do not want to penalize my colleagues, I refer to the question that was sent to you. If you wanted to answer that, that would be very nice of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u9	Mr. Piedboeuf, to answer your question about the exemption regime for tax shelter licensed scenic works and its coming into force, a definitive exemption for the 2017 tax year is not possible. This exemption was therefore not included in the list of cases where the reserve start-up situation was increased. With regard to the system of internal capital gains, the legislator did not provide for an increase in the situation at the beginning of the reserves. The explanatory memorandum states that the amount of the taxed reserve, established in accordance with Article 184 (3) of the Income Tax Code 1992, must, however, be taken into account in the early stage of the reservations in order to guarantee fiscal neutrality. The amount of the taxed reserve is therefore included in the reserve, both at the beginning and end of the taxable period. As regards the two new cases of increase in the situation at the beginning of the reserves – in this case, the definitive exemption for innovation income and the negative correction under the "diamond" scheme – these are not included in Article 74 of the Royal Decree implementing the IARC 1992. In order to guarantee the definitive exemptions proposed by these two regimes, the administration did not grant itself freedoms, but based itself on the will of the legislator, clearly expressed in the parliamentary proceedings relating to these two provisions. Let me turn to your second question. The explanations for the corporate tax return specify the three situations covered by Code 1206. For all useful purposes, it should be noted that from 1 January 2017, the rates of 40 % and 17 % apply on a different taxable basis than the one submitted up to the rate of 17 % only. In a spirit of legibility and simplification, the administration did not consider it useful to maintain the three separate codes. For your third question, the title and code of the declaration have in fact been adapted to cover expenditure not allowed under the two schemes for the exemption of licensed works tax shelter. In answer to your last question, this is not a question, but a confirmation requested from the taxpayer. The purpose of this confirmation is to draw the latter's attention to his reporting obligations on the Movable Discount. The explanations for the corporate tax return and, in particular, for the "non-accepted expenses" framework recall in this respect that the allocation or payment of movable income makes it compulsory to report to the household pre-payment, even if no household pre-payment will be due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u10	Minister, thank you. I am satisfied with these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u11	Mr. President, Minister, section 494 of the Income Tax Code (IRC) 1992 indicates the cases that result in the reassessment of cadastral revenues. For unbuilt plots, a change in the mode of operation is a significant change that results in the reassessment of its cadastral income. There is nothing similar for built plots. In practice, however, it is very common for buildings built physically suitable for trade to cease overnight after sheltering any commercial activity. If the change of assignment is not accompanied by a significant physical change, the cadastral income of these buildings cannot be legally revalued, either upwards or downwards. Minister, can you tell me whether the removal of items generally encountered in commercial buildings, such as a streetfront window, is a physical change necessary for the re-evaluation of cadastral income to take place? If so, can you tell me on what legal or regulatory basis the administration imposes this condition, which is relatively costly and burdensome administratively, for a possible re-evaluation? Is not an interior redevelopment of spaces, for example for housing purposes, sufficient for a re-evaluation to take place? Are you considering an amendment to section 494 to include the case of the change in allocation of built parcels as a reason for re-evaluation of their cadastral income?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u12	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, the problem raised is the application of the provisions of the CIR, which provides for the re-evaluation of cadastral revenues for substantially modified buildings. In the case of commercial immovables, the revaluation shall be carried out on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of the characteristics of the immovable concerned. The amendments must cover intrinsic elements of trade: the customer access wing, the store space where the trade takes place, any technical equipment such as butcher's fridges, masonry stalls, steel machine supports, etc. The subsistence or otherwise of a window is, on its own, insufficient. Indeed, it is all the work that guides the expert to see whether, on a sustainable and permanent basis, commercial features have disappeared in favour of a typical residential complex. In this regard, it should be noted that minor adjustments are not decisive in re-evaluating the cadastral income of a property, especially if it clearly retains the potential of a commercial area that could quickly be put into service, for example after a rental or sale. An adaptation of Article 494 of the IARC 1992 is therefore not envisaged at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u13	Minister, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u14	Questions Nos 19994, 20008 and 20022 by Mrs Jadin and Question No 20024 by Mr. Van Biesen is transformed into written questions. Question No 20049 by Mrs Lambrecht is considered withdrawn. Question No 20055 by Mr Vermeulen was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u15	Mr President, while I have taken a few holidays, some subjects have nevertheless drawn my attention. The first is a complaint against BNP Paribas (of which we are the first shareholder) concerning the Rwandan genocide. Minister, on June 28, three non-governmental organizations formed civil parties against BNP Paribas. They accuse the bank of "complicity of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes". In concrete terms, BNP Paribas would have financed the purchase of arms from Seychelles for the benefit of the Hutu extremist government in the midst of genocide, when the UN had imposed an embargo on the sale of arms. According to the complainants, it appears that, even though these weapons (kalashnikovs, ammunition, grenades, mortars, etc.) were officially destined for the Congolese army, their final destination could not be the subject of doubt for BNP Paribas. Indeed, it was the National Bank of Rwanda that asked the French bank to pay the sum of $1.3 million to a South African arms dealer's Swiss account. At least one other institution had been more respectful of the embargo imposed by the United Nations, since the BBL (in its name at the time) had refused to release that amount for the benefit of the arms dealer. Minister, what comment can you make following this complaint? Are you able to confirm the charges against BNP Paribas? Have you asked about the management of the bank, of which we are, I would remind you again, the first shareholder? What information, if any, has it provided to you? What will be the position of the Belgian State as a shareholder in relation to this complaint? If so, will you ask the Belgian directors to relay the Belgian position within the French banking institution? Will our representatives demand the management of BNP Paribas that the light be shed on this heavy charge? Have the rules within the group evolved since then so as to avoid in the future such practices of the bank vis-à-vis non-democratic regimes or in situations of civil or military conflict or embargoes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u16	Mr Gilkinet, I did question the bank about this transaction, which dates back to 1994. She informed me that she had not received any communication regarding the complaint announced by the media. His answer is clear and precise. She doesn't know the substance. In these circumstances, I cannot answer or comment on the various elements that you have put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u17	Minister, no one is required to do so. I will try to contact the three non-governmental organizations to inform them of a possible procedural problem. In absolute terms, I maintain my initial remarks about the potentially problematic nature of past and previous events before the Belgian State entered the capital of BNP Paribas. What matters is the adoption of rules preventing, if any, such events from occurring in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u18	Mr President, thank you for quoting the name of the company that I am asking for in my place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u19	Is it a Swedish company?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u20	It is a multinational company that sells different products in the health and hygiene sector from which I do not know the origin. Mr President, Minister, Oxfam published a report in early July on the tax practices of this active multinational, as I have just said, in the areas of hygiene, health and household products, where it often plays a leading role. The NGO points to the rather surprising evolution of the profits reported by the company's subsidiaries in recent years. Oxfam notes the case of the Belgian subsidiary of the company. During the period 2010-2016, the volume of employment increased slightly and its turnover increased from 165 million to 236 million. But strangely, since 2013, it has recorded a staggering decline in its operating profit from 30 million to 2 million. This fall has logically affected the tax revenues received by our country, which have decreased by 8 million euros, i.e. a decrease of 80%. Oxfam found that it was in 2013 that the Belgian subsidiary entered into a "new distribution contract" with one of its subsidiaries or sisters, which resulted in a significant increase in the price of goods. At the same time, the multinational company obtained from the Dutch tax authorities a ruling allowing an exemption of 75% of the company's profits. It turns out that other states such as France, Australia or New Zealand would also be harmed by this tax avoidance strategy, which is reminiscent of that implemented by IKEA, a strategy that I asked you about a few months ago. With regard to the latter case, in May 2016, you told me that more than a year ago, a control of a multinational company, such as IKEA, required a very detailed investigation of the transfer prices between the different units of this multinational, a transfer price for which a standard processing period of more or less a year must be provided. You also told me that you wanted an investigation to be conducted. Since then, more than a year has passed. I will therefore take this opportunity to ask you for information on this matter. Minister, have you or have the FPS Finances been aware of this Oxfam study? What conclusions do you draw? Has an investigation been initiated by the Belgian tax administration into these alleged tax evasion practices in the head of the aforementioned multinational? If not, will you request that such an investigation be initiated? Has the administration already identified the use of this device by other companies? Do you intend to initiate consultations with other States on this matter? Have such practices of artificial reduction of profits made in order to reduce tax in Belgium been identified in the head of other multinationals? If so, what measures are being taken or envisaged to respond to them? What about the IKEA file you told me on 16 May 2016 that it would be the subject of a specific investigation? What are the conclusions of the survey of IKEA's tax arrangements?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u21	Mr Gilkinet, the study carried out on behalf of Oxfam was not revealed to the public until mid-July 2017, through various media channels. It was also in this way that the administration was informed of this. This document certainly requires a more in-depth study, which is under way. The administration conducted a profit erosion survey with the taxpayer concerned, but due to professional secrecy, I cannot provide you with more details about this investigation. Both at the OECD level, during the discussions of the BEPS Action Plan, and at the European Union level during the discussion of the ATAD and DAC Directives, initiatives have been taken to resolve these situations. Such a situation was already known within the administration. It is also taken into account by risk analysis. This can, of course, lead to tax controls. Given professional secrecy, I cannot provide details of the investigations under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u22	Mr Minister, I understand and respect the issue of professional secrecy, but I can only note, as I ask questions, that it is systematically NGOs that uncover this type of practice. I have never heard from you or from the FPS Finances or the ISI the discovery of such a case which could have a deterrent effect on those who practice tax evasion on this scale and who benefit from the too generous tax systems of neighbouring states. Finally, they do not contribute to their profits at all the costs that their presence in our territory can generate. I will ask other questions of the same kind, but I can only repeat that it is urgent for you to act, without falling behind the disagreement of other countries or behind the ongoing work at the OECD. I believe that Belgium must play a leading role in this area, which is not the case. I cannot, Mr. Chairman, be satisfied with the minister's answer. I hope there is more going on behind the scenes and within the FPS Finances, on the subject, that you have not been willing to reveal it to me, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u23	Mr President, Minister, in their editions of 14 July, De Tijd and Le Soir referred to the angry statement by European Commissioner Moscovici on the acceptance by certain states of his proposal to make tax advisers subject to transparency requirements. Mr Moscovici referred to the concerns raised by Belgian diplomats about the mass of additional information to be processed by the tax authorities, as well as the reservations you have expressed in this regard. The Commissioner was surprised that states did not seize this opportunity to increase their revenues by fighting against the avoidance mechanisms developed by tax advisers. According to him, the United Kingdom would have recovered EUR 12 billion in a decade by forcing tax advisers to practice transparency. Minister, can you tell me Belgium's position on Commissioner Moscovici's proposal on the transparency to be exercised by tax advisers? What comments were made? Do you confirm that Belgian representatives have pointed out the administrative burden of implementing the directive in order to refuse it or to prevent its entry into force? Can you tell me whether an estimate of the cost (in terms of tax revenue) for Belgium of the absence of this transposition has been made? Do you intend to take an initiative to combat tax schemes developed through banks, accountants, lawyers and other tax advisors? When will this directive be effectively transposed into Belgian law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u24	Minister, I would also like to tell you once again about the same subject. I have already asked a question about this in plenary on 22 June. We then had a brief debate on this. You replied to my question about the position of yourself and the government on the European Commission's proposal on more information exchange on aggressive tax schemes by financial intermediaries, that you are not in favour of the European Commission's proposal because it would lead to increased administrative complexity and because it would be a symptom reduction. After that question and your answer in Parliament, I read in De Tijd and Le Soir that European Commissioner Moscovici was not set up with your answer to my question in plenary. During the meeting with your European colleagues, you would not have responded to the European Commission's proposal when you did so in Parliament. Officially, therefore, there was no Belgian position at the time. Apparently, that would still not be there today if I had read the press releases of 22 August a while ago. It would therefore be a good thing if we could find out what the Belgian Government's position is in this respect. Moreover, I am not entirely in agreement with the argument why we should not go into the European Commission's proposal. The fact that this proposal would lead to increased administrative complexity and that the fight against symptom is not entirely in line with the measures already taken in the context of country-by-country reporting. Companies are already being obliged to share more information about all their activities in other countries. We should do that with two or three different reports. Rulings must also be exchanged automatically from now on. So the European Commission's proposal certainly fits into that and is actually an extension of what it is doing in the context of country-by-country reporting so that we can adapt legislation with more knowledge and therefore make it even simpler. As indicated earlier, the proposal is based on best practices from Ireland, Portugal and the United Kingdom. Ireland has managed to find some EUR 12 billion in this way in 10 years. That's why I'm asking you a few questions. Firstly, can you clarify what the Belgian position is now with regard to the European Commission's proposal on the transfer of aggressive tax schemes by financial intermediaries? Secondly, can you agree with the best practices followed in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Portugal? If not, why not and on what grounds? Thirdly, if increased administrative complexity is the main reason for not being able to accept the European Commission's proposal, can you not seek to update the European Commission's proposal and to introduce it in the most simple way, so that administrative complexity is reduced or would no longer be of great importance? If not, why not? Finally, can you clarify why you say that obliging intermediaries to pass on more information would be symptom control? The Panama Papers and the work that has been done in this House have just shown that the bulk of the offshore problem is concentrated mainly on intermediaries and the work and role they often play in the offshore problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u25	Mr Gilkinet, mevrouw Smaers, the discussions on the DAC 6 directive, namely the proposal for a directive on the compulsory and automatic exchange of cross-border constructions, began under the Estonian Presidency. This proposal for a directive is based on the reporting systems in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Portugal. Mrs Smaers, you are quite right to refer to our discussion in plenary on 22 June. In view of the limited time available during Question Time, I also had to give a limited answer. I would like to explain my answer at the time. In my view, the European Commissioner's statement does not directly relate to Belgium. After all, Belgium clearly supports the objectives of the proposal of the directive and wants to give tax administrations rapid access to potentially harmful tax structures, in order to determine where the means of control can be used most efficiently. Belgium also wants to discourage aggressive tax planning and allow administrations to close loopholes in legislation faster than is currently the case. There is really no contradiction. However, a number of Member States, including Belgium, have highlighted some concerns in this discussion. For example, the need to limit the exchange to efficient and usable data in order to be able to process the flow of data smoothly has been highlighted. In this context, a more step-by-step introduction of the transparency regime could be envisaged, with, of course, emphasis on the main forms of aggressive tax planning arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u26	Mr Minister, the main question I asked you about Belgium's proactive position on this draft directive is not clear after hearing you. I agree with you that a poorly thought-out exchange of data could create more problems than solutions. We must be effective, of course, but the argument of efficiency in order not to do anything, I cannot follow it. As I have noted in previous questions, the lack of coordination between European States and the lack of exchange of information beyond Europe mean that certain financial actors are exempt from tax payments, which is problematic for Belgium and others. States, starting with our own, must have a much more proactive and proactive attitude in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u27	Minister, this somewhat more comprehensive answer partly clarifies the ambiguity that emerged after your reply in plenary. I understand that the Belgian Government does indeed support the objective of the European directive and supports the measures contained in it to discourage tax-aggressive planning and increase the exchange of information. I also understand that opportunities are being sought to meet the concerns of Belgium and a number of other countries. I suspect that this group will then seek a better definition of the tax scheme for aggressive constructions, so that one cannot continue to say that we agree with the measures and objectives but not with that specific form of information exchange through the financial intermediaries. I would like to have a defined definition which Belgium can agree to. I also understand the step-by-step introduction of increased transparency and the information exchange need and obligation. There may be reasons for this, but this should not undermine the main objective, the exchange of information and the contribution of these financial intermediaries. I therefore call for further work to be carried out on the definition of the aggressive constructions and tax schemes that need to be exchanged so that the objectives and measures can still be pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u28	Mr President, the title of my question may seem abscons, but it is indeed payments made by companies to tax havens. Minister, since 2010, Belgian companies must complete, as part of their annual tax return, Form 275F. Belgian companies are obliged to declare any payment of more than 100 000 euros to states that are considered tax havens. According to a survey published by the newspaper Le Soir on 14 August, Belgian companies reported payments of EUR 261 billion in 2016, based on the figures reported by the SPF Finances. This amount is particularly high and spectacular and can raise our suspicions about a desire to avoid paying the tax due. Do you confirm the figures published by Le Soir? What is your appreciation of the importance of these figures? Do you have figures per tax haven since the introduction of the reporting obligation? Are you ready to make them public? How many people is the FPS Finance Tax Paradis Unit? What is the exact mission of this cell? In how many cases in the last five years has it refused the eligibility of certain business expenses to tax havens? In how many cases in the last five years has the unit been responsible for further surveys of the companies concerned? Does not the size of the amounts declared justify an adaptation of the legal framework in the sense of greater transparency and control capacity? What about the publication of the Royal Order updating the list of tax havens? Why are Hong Kong, Panama and Singapore not listed? How long will this list be updated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u29	Mr President, according to the same file of the newspaper Le Soir, 853 Belgian companies mentioned in their tax return at the 2016 tax year transactions (payments) with tax havens for a total of 221 billion euros, an average amount of 259 million euros per company, which is important. In previous years, this amounted to $275 billion for 1,614 companies (year 2015), $224 billion for 532 companies (year 2014) and $202 billion for 461 companies (year 2013). The importance of these amounts calls into question. How do you explain such large amounts? Which 853 companies are concerned for the 2016 financial year? You can answer me in writing, you must not quote them all here. This applies to my other questions. What is the breakdown of the 853 companies concerned by sector of activity and by Region? What is the average tax rate for these 853 corporations? What is the breakdown of $221 billion by type of transaction (dividends, royalties, interest, purchases of goods and services, etc.) What proportion of the 221 billion has been subject to tax correction for how many companies? What is this proportion for the previous three fiscal years? What is the breakdown of the 221 billion by country and tax haven? Why does the reporting obligation not apply to tax havens such as Luxembourg, Delaware, Singapore, Panama or Hong Kong? How many tax officers do they analyze these data? Is the number sufficient given the size of the transactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u30	Gentlemen, I would like to point out that Form 275F on the declaration of payment to states considered as tax havens is an annex to the declaration and is intended to report all payments, the total amount of which during the taxable period has reached a minimum amount of EUR 100 000, to persons or permanent establishments established in a State, to bank accounts managed or held by one of those persons or permanent establishments or to bank accounts managed or held with credit institutions established or with permanent establishments in a State which: either at the time of the payment, is considered by the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes as a State which has not actually or substantially implemented the standard on the exchange of information on request, or is listed as non-existent or low tax havens. In this context, a non-existent or low-taxed State means a State which is not part of the European Economic Area and which does not subject companies to corporate tax on income of domestic or foreign origin, or whose nominal corporate tax rate is less than 10 %, or whose corporate tax rate corresponds to the actual tax burden on income of foreign origin is less than 15 %. As far as the figures of the newspaper Le Soir are concerned, they were provided by my department. However, it should be made clear that this is a particularly large amount of information (papers, unstructured files, etc.).). In this case, after very thorough verification, it appears that a number of significant reporting errors have been made and that the amount of 221 billion, taking into account these corrections, for the 2016 tax year, is to be reduced to 82.9 billion euros. In the case of the surplus, for the sake of consistency and uniform method, the total amounts subject to a tax deduction from the tax base have been established to determine the payment statistics to tax havens. Given that these figures are to be found in the current economic context, governed inter alia by the free movement of capital, it is not for the FPS Finances to assess the importance of payments to States considered to be tax havens, but to monitor their compliance with the Code and, where appropriate, to verify whether there are indications or suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing under the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 11 July 1993. Furthermore, attention is drawn to the fact that these amounts are, in this case, amounts declared on the basis of voluntary declarations made by taxpayers "legal persons". The top 10 and breakdown of payments made by country for the 2016 tax year are as follows: 1. the United Arab Emirates for 76% rounded; 2. Cayman Islands, for 11 per cent rounded; 3. Bahrain, 5 per cent; 4. Bermuda, 4 per cent; 5. Anglo-Norman Islands, 2.15%. Ranks 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 are occupied by the British Virgin Islands, Monaco, Cyprus, the Isle of Man, the Bahamas. Their figures range from 0.01 per cent to 0.33 per cent. As regards the Tax Paradis Unit within the FPS Finances, four persons are assigned primarily to the Anti-Tax Paradis Unit of the Anti-Fraud Coordination Service. In particular, the unit's mission is to analyse payments reported on Form 275F, in order to verify whether they are made in real and sincere transactions and with persons other than artificial constructions. To do so, all forms 275F of the same tax year must be compiled in a single file. In its search for elements of fraud, the anti-tax haven unit carries out a risk assessment of transactions carried out on the basis of indicators. When it discovers that certain elements are in dispute, the cell prepares a pre-investigation report that is generally forwarded to the operational control services of the AGISI or, where appropriate, to those of the AGFisc. The anti-tax haven unit, which is an integral part of the FPS finance anti-fraud coordination services, is not an operational service but a central service. Its mission is, therefore, to carry out pre-investigations and to support operational control services in the tax matters of tax havens. The unit is therefore not in a position to directly reject the deduction of payments made by or to tax havens. I believe that some transparency is ensured by the fulfilment of this obligation of declaration as it currently exists. The size of the amounts reported indicates, moreover, that taxpayers comply with this obligation. I therefore do not consider it necessary to change the legal framework at the moment. In this respect, control is closely linked to increased cooperation between States, and I am committed to improving this cooperation as much as possible. As you probably need to know, the European Commission has also, in the meantime, begun an exercise, in consultation with the Member States, to draw up a Community list of tax havens. In doing so, I decided to wait for the results of this European exercise. This is how I instructed my administration to discontinue the composition of a new list. Finally, as far as the 853 companies are concerned, the formal provision in article 337 of the Code on the obligation of secrecy prevents me from providing concrete answers to the questions asked. I do not think it is appropriate to communicate the breakdown of the companies concerned by sector of activity and by region, as this could help to identify certain taxpayers, depending on their specificities. In this case, I would point out that the violation of professional secrecy is punishable in accordance with article 458 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u31	Minister, I can hear your explanations. These are figures collected on the basis of voluntary declarations from companies. You explain that there was a miscalculation of the figures transmitted to journalists. You're bringing the total amount down to 82 billion. These 82 billion are deductible and remain impressive. I am concerned about the few apparent consequences of these declarations that can be an indication of problematic practices and deserve to be questioned by the tax administration. Are these figures changing? We're going to improve the method of calculation and evaluation. We'll have progressive statistics. But I fear that the desire not to change anything will cause the treasure to lose significant amounts in the coming years. I therefore invite you to do something other than improve the compilation of statistics by improving and increasing control. If payments have an economic reality, it's fair. On the other hand, there may be suspicions of a desire to evade tax. It's a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u32	Minister, I take note of your answers and non-responses. If I understood correctly, it is 82 billion instead of 221 billion! Is that it? Is this not a difference of 82 billion? The final figure is 82 billion! The difference is inquisitive. I'll take note of it. This amount remains astronomical! You have answered some questions. I understand that you did not intend to give the names of the 853 companies or even their breakdowns by sector and region. I asked you what the average tax rate was for these 853 companies. There is no problem of identification by transmitting the average rate of these, as well as the breakdown by type of transaction, which you also did not answer. Above all, you did not answer the question as to the proportion that was subject to a tax correction. You replied that it was not the unit that handled the tax corrections. I never claimed that the cell was in charge of the tax correction. But the cell transmits to the ad hoc service and the latter does, if it buys, a rectification. My question was about the effectiveness of this reporting requirement form, the effectiveness of the cell and the effectiveness of monitoring services who received a warning from the cell. In my opinion, as Minister of Finance, and in order to combat tax fraud and money laundering, this is a question you are supposed to ask yourself. What's interesting is that it doesn't seem to interest you. It is equally interesting to see that you intend to refer to the European list of tax havens in order not to make progress in this area. This is not the first time you have said it, but your reaction is aberrant. You could move very well in parallel with the European Commission, even if you changed the shot. But I think that the number of four people in the tax haven cell for such large amounts seems to me to be very insufficient. Since you do not communicate any rectifications and we do not have any further measurement of the work performed, it is difficult to see the productivity and the result of their work. I will not fail to ask again questions concerning the points to which you have not answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u33	Minister, last June the government approved, at a meeting in Kern, the introduction of a mobility allowance which could, subject to a number of conditions, be an alternative to the current system of company cars. This new measure should be operational as of 1 January 2018 with systemic barriers to prevent abuse. At the outset, Minister, allow me to welcome the implementation of a strong commitment that was made by the government several months ago! In the face of the enormous mobility challenges facing our country, particularly at the level of the major urban centres, including the Brussels Region, it is important to develop strong measures to improve the daily lives of our citizens. So what are the concrete lines of strength of this mobility allowance? What is the timetable for the implementation of the measure? Do you confirm the deadline in the media, namely January 1, 2018? Finally, what consultations, if any, are planned with the regional authorities to facilitate the development of this mobility allowance? I am thinking in particular of the Brussels Region, which has adopted its new business travel plan scheme (POE), which obliges employers to provide several mobility offers to their employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u34	Mr. Calomne, thank you for the questions, but I think it will be more useful to answer them as soon as the bill is approved by the government. The government's will is indeed an entry into force of this system on January 1, 2018, which means a publication of the law before that date. I hope that we will be able to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will come back to you for more information once the measure has been adopted by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-20-54-commissie-ic726x.u36	Questions Nos. 20116, 20117, 20118, 20539 and 20540 by Georges Gilkinet are transformed into written questions.
