ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u1	We did not send the summons to this sitting until late, for which we apologize. All the applicants were notified separately by e-mail so that they could be present. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez 14857 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u2	Mr President, Minister, we heard from the minutes of the October Council of Ministers that agreement was reached in the government's lap on so-called functional bilingualism. This was in the coalition agreement, by the way. This functional bilingualism was already introduced in 2002 for the highest officials. Unfortunately, the bar was already laid down at that time, because it was not a thorough but merely a functional bilingualism that was demanded. This is therefore a weak decoction of a thorough bilingualism. I find this unacceptable to those senior officials, because in some cases lower officials need to have more detailed language skills than their superiors. In any case, as far as I am concerned, in order to be able to evaluate someone, one must be able to understand, read and speak the language of the person concerned. We must at least reach the C2 level of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages. This level does not even exist with us because Selor only organises tests up to the level C1. The same applies, moreover, to persons with a management function and to officials responsible for the unity of justice. So the law already sets the bar low and the question now is whether the implementation given to it, through the KB approved in the Council of Ministers, does not bring the bar down any further. In any case, this shows modest ambitions of this government in terms of the language skills of senior officials. I have a few questions about that. Firstly, how many of the officials required to evaluate the other officials are covered by this scheme? How many Dutch speakers and how many French speakers are we talking about? How many of these officials already have a language certificate that meets the requirements of this Royal Decree? My second question is exactly the same, but it refers to the officials in charge of management. My third question is also the same, but it refers to the officials who guarantee the unity of justice. Fourthly, what level of language skills should these officials achieve, expressed in the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages? Why are you setting the bar on the language level of top officials at that level perhaps a sport lower than for many of their subordinates? Fifthly, we heard from the media that you would have opted for a transition period of two and a half years for those already in office. They will have two and a half years to comply with the provisions of this Royal Decree. Perhaps you can motivate why you have chosen such a long period of time? This is not new; it has been known for a long time that it will have to be met and that it will have to be prepared to achieve the necessary level of language. I think that is a very long transitional period, but perhaps you can explain why it should be. Sixthly, what happens to those who fail to pass the language exams after the very long two and a half years? Will they be paid a discharge? If so, what order and why are they still getting that compensation? Seventh, for the unity of justice, there is a syllabus, which will be made available by Selor, with all the legal and administrative words that the candidates must learn in the other language. Can you explain to the syllabus how we should imagine it? Eight, Selor's taking the tests. In what language does Selor communicate with the officials about the trials? Finally, when will the Royal Decree be published in the Belgian Official Journal? When does the arrangement go into effect? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u3	Mrs Pas, I hope you will forgive me for replying in two languages. After all, the answer is prepared in two languages. I can make an attempt at simultaneous translation. However, we are at risk, as it is known that your party has made progress where there has been 15 years of standstill. It is, of course, important that the matters I declare to be technically correct. First of all, I would like to stress that the language requirements which officials must evaluate are justified in protecting the official himself. The evaluation process is characterised by various discussions which evaluate the performance and the development of competence of officials. Without these language requirements, the official concerned may not have his or her right to be heard and his or her right to defence. It is therefore clear that the administrative language legislation requires the evaluation procedure, including all interviews and all documents, to be complete and without exception in the language of the official concerned. So that's the evaluated one. The proposed Royal Order, which implements section 43ter or, in other words, which implements functional bilingualism, applies only to evaluators and agents of federal public services, i.e. approximately 2,392 persons. Of these, 838 are already in possession of the language certificate Article 12 or Article 7, attesting to a sufficient knowledge of other languages or a mastery of the language comparable to that expected of the holders of the corresponding diplomas obtained in that language. This means that out of 2 392 people, 838 already have a certificate according to Article 12 or Article 7. It follows that, in accordance with Article 43ter, § 8, of the language laws, these 838 staff members will be exempted from presenting new language examinations relating to functional knowledge. Those 838 people are therefore exempt from additional examinations. The mandate holders are a group of 132 persons, some 30 of whom are exempt today because they already have a language certificate in accordance with Article 12 or Article 7. Article 43ter, § 7, of the language laws provides for two kinds of language examinations relating to functional bilingualism. It is therefore a question of functional bilingualism. The first review relates to functional bilingualism related to the task of unity of jurisprudence and includes only one test. The test will focus on understanding and the ability to actively restore administrative and legal vocabulary to the second language. The administrative and legal vocabulary to be known will be reflected in a syllabus that Selor will make available on his website. This syllabus contains a list of 800 administrative and legal terms in both national languages. Mrs Pas, this means that if printed, such a syllabus is paper with a letter on it. If you choose to see it digitally, it will be available digitally. It concerns 800 administrative and legal terms in both national languages. The second examination deals with functional bilingualism related to the evaluation task and includes two tests. The first test will consist of a simulation of an evaluation interview during which the candidate performs the role of the assessor student. So they will be tested for what they are asked to do. The level of this examination will be comparable to level B2. So B2 of the European framework. The second test will consist of an understanding of the writing and the ability to control the content of the usual texts written in the second language. The level of this examination will be comparable to level C1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages. In short, for the oral evaluation this is B2, for the written evaluation C1. The first review shall be submitted by all staff members who are identified as ensuring the unity of case law. The second review shall be submitted by all staff members performing the assessment task in their FPS or PPS, whether or not they are agents. So no distinction is made between mandating or not. It is a question of whether someone should effectively carry out an evaluation task or not. Pending the implementation of Article 43ter, § 7, transitional measures have been taken in the past. They are intended to designate bilingual assistants when the person who ensured the unity of administrative jurisprudence vis-à-vis their authority under which he or she had not attested to the sufficient knowledge of the other language. Those who were considered to be not sufficiently bilingual to carry out an evaluation have so far been assisted by someone who could. These transitional measures had been extended from year to year, but ended definitively on 31 December 2011. In order to be able to evaluate officials of another language role, the official must have a language certificate in accordance with Article 12 or Article 7 or the new Article 10a, the certificate of functional knowledge and evaluation, after the entry into force of the Royal Decree. The failure of the official can therefore no longer be assessed directly and in person. So he can't perform some of his duties. In that case, the evaluation will have to be carried out by an evaluator who does meet the requirements of Article 43b, Paragraph 7 of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters, for example, the hierarchical superior rather than the functional chief. For the transitional period of two and a half years, I refer to the law of 12 June 2002, which served as the basis for the Royal Decree and even provides for a maximum transitional period of five years. It is true that the new mandate holders have six months to succeed. If they fail within that period, they shall be entitled to an termination allowance equal to two twelfths of an annual remuneration. The language tests will indeed be carried out by Selor. Candidates will be able to register via Selor's website. This website is available in both Dutch and French. The new language tests will also be communicated to all relevant officials. On the entry into force of the Royal Decree, I can inform you that the opinion of the Council of State is currently being discussed in the government. I assume that the royal decree will be submitted to the King in the coming weeks. Finally, I would like to emphasise that it is the responsibility of the management of the federal administrations concerned to organise their services in such a way that the evaluation can be carried out in compliance with administrative language legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your enlightening explanation. With regard to your previous remark, you clearly do not know me when you claim that there is progress; you do not know me or my party at all. As a Flemish nationalist, this is the only Community dossier in which there is progress. That is very disappointing and disappointing. There's been some progress. It is a Procession of Echternach, but it finally progresses a bit after 15 years. You have given me the figures, and I shall read them again in due course with regard to the number of people who are already satisfied, who are no longer required to take the test; there are 838. However, it would be interesting to know the subdivision between Dutch speakers and French speakers. How many Dutch speakers still have to meet this and how many French speakers? We know what that relationship was like in the past. It's interesting to know if that relationship is still the same. You are talking about this long transitional period of two and a half years. You refer to the arrangement agreed in 2002, with a transitional period of five years. So it has been known for more than 15 years, so it could have been properly prepared. I have not heard any arguments as to why we have two and a half years to go. The only thing I can think of with my bad character is that this perfectly corresponds to the end of the legislature and that, if it fails, you can leave the mess to your successors. I certainly look forward to the royal decision, which you say will be taken in a few weeks' time. It wasn't my first question about this. As you know, I will continue to follow the dossier closely, as will all the other Community dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u5	Mrs Pas, you know that at least some people in the Chamber have a passion for people with a good heart but a bad character.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u6	Mr. Chair, Minister, the Government Agreement states that the federal government will respect and encourage diversity in its own organization and service delivery and will define a quantified objective for the federal government through the socio-economic monitoring method coordinated by the Employment, Labour and Social Concertation FPS. In the fight against discrimination, special attention should be paid to persons of immigrant origin. To this end, the Working Group "People with a Migration Past" has been set up, composed of diversity leaders from the Federal Network and the Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities. This group was given the task of drafting a strategic note on diversity. In the context of this note, the working group should, inter alia, establish a definition applicable to persons with a migration history and define an approach based on monitoring. To do this, it uses the support of the Employment and Experts FPS. Minister, what is the status of the Working Group on People with a Migration Past? Has he met before? If so, what is the status of its work? Have quantified targets already been defined? Have you ever developed the methodology for socio-economic monitoring of diversity? What are your plans to ensure greater diversity within the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u7	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Clarinval, the Migration Working Group began its work in 2015. In 2016, he forwarded to my firm a policy note to which you refer. This note includes a proposal for a concrete definition and a first draft on implementation and monitoring. This proposal for a policy note was drawn up on the basis of a concise benchmark with different Belgian administrations, an analysis of the scientific literature and various contacts with important actors, including the Employment, Labour and Social Concertation SPF. In recent months, this note has given rise to several constructive consultation sessions between Mr Peeters' firm, the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation and my firm in order to study the preliminary measures for an initial reference measure. In collaboration with the SPF Emploi, Travail et Concertation sociale, my firm has studied the desirability of the possible integration of this initial measure into the existing socio-economic monitoring. In 2017, this initial measure will be carried out on the basis of socio-economic monitoring (2016 figures). This measure will then establish quantified objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to know whether the definition has already been established. To be quite clear, the question was addressed to Mr Peeters. Indeed, it is well known that some people are accused of not implementing the definition. Does Minister Peeters therefore have that definition?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u9	As I have just explained, the definition has been established. I'll send it to you. When I say that this year, the initial measure will take place on the basis of socio-economic monitoring, it means that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic592x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 15703 was postponed. Mr Gilkinet is not present, he has neither apologized nor asked for his question to be converted into a written question. If Rule 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure is applied, Question No 5 will be answered in writing. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
