ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, my inquiry is led by hope. Indeed, you have obviously moved forward favourably in your opinions. At one point, we feared that you would prevent the 150 foreign scholarship students from coming to specialize for a year in our university hospitals. Through this internship, these students from developing countries contribute to the improvement of health care in their country. We understood that you prevented them from coming to training for fear that they would compete with Belgian students for internship places. You know that the medical faculties of ULB, UCL and ULg had strongly denounced this. Having said that, I think that since then, you have eased the concerns. You have confirmed that you want a positive response to all these issues and that this North/South cooperation, which is extremely important for medical development in these partner countries, is being pursued. Minister, do you confirm that? My second question of course concerns the situation related to the dual cohort of students. In the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, some 2,000 students will soon choose a course of specialization (general medicine, cardiology, paediatrics, etc.).). It seems that due to lack of financial resources, in particular, there will not be enough quality internship places for all these students. This situation would be totally unacceptable. Arrangements must be made to prepare for the arrival of this double cohort. Minister, what initiatives have been developed to ensure the future of all medical students in this dual cohort and to provide them with internship places? How are your discussions with the federated entities? I think you've continued the dialogue with them and that's so much better. What's the status of your discussions with university officials? When will concrete measures finally be put on the table? Will a specific budget be made available?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u2	Mrs Onkelinx, two weeks ago, I answered questions on the same subject, tabled by Mrs Fonck and Mrs Gerkens. What I am going to tell you here is therefore an additional answer. As you know, Article 146 governs the influx of non-EU doctors who wish to take a specific professional internship in the field of the exercise of the art of medicine. Unlike other professionals who start a professional internship, an exception scheme is provided, so that these people do not receive a visa to practise. In other words, they are exempt from the requirement to hold a visa and are also not registered with the College of Physicians. Once a file is entered for a particular training course, the department checks whether the file is admissible in accordance with the law. The file is then forwarded to the Royal Dutch-speaking Academy or the Académie royale francophone for advice. In the event of a favourable opinion, the SPF shall provide a document to the requesting service and to the interested party so that any useful initiative may be taken with a view to initiating the particular training. For the files you're talking about, this whole procedure has been followed. It is true that the cases of 2016 and 2017 are the subject of a detailed analysis because they are substantial figures: almost 200 per year, which corresponds to about 400 cases in two years for the French Community. The difference between the number of cases in the university services of the French Community (220 this year) and that of the Flemish Community (5) is due to the fact that a large number of applicants come from French-speaking countries. For this reason, foreign schools have privileged relations with schools in French-speaking Belgium. Secondly, training is carried out in approved internship services for medical specialists in training, another good reason for carrying out this in-depth analysis. Given the large number of students, the internship for medical specialists in training may be put at risk due to the phenomenon of the double cohort. Third, additional internship places are to be provided from 2018 onwards, in order to compensate for the "double cohort". Indeed, I am concerned about the large influx of externally trained Fellows in addition to the existing quota. Finally, Article 166 does not constitute an absolute right for doctors from foreign countries of the European Union or for university hospitals responsible for training such persons. It's an easy one. The influx must be proportional. We must guarantee the quality of the internships, both those of the Fellows and those of the medical specialists in training. An excess of internship services is not beneficial to ensure sufficient professional experience. The number of dentists is negligible: we count one or two per year, pharmacists also: one per year. On the other hand, the number of doctors is huge and increasing: in 2016, there were 217 doctors in the French Community and 5 doctors in the Flemish Community, while in 2015 there were 160 doctors in the French Community and 7 doctors in the Flemish Community. This number is actually increasing in the French Community, where the double cohort, due to the lack of review of quota compliance, will be more difficult to carry out. We asked the deans for the numbers. It is known that there is a need for more or less 400 additional traineeships in the Flemish Community and 1,400 traineeships in the French Community. It's important to know. We've already taken some action, but we're looking at other leads. Francophone deans have been asked to provide us with the number of internship places available for this year, but so far no response has been received. And it is necessary to have this answer! Now, we've seen that 200 internship places are really occupied by foreign students. And here I say that it must be proportional! But we do not know the proportionality, since we do not know the number of internship places. If they occupy 200 places out of 2,000, I think there is no problem; if they occupy 200 out of 1,000, there is a problem because they are competing with our students. It is true that our students also have the opportunity to go abroad for a year, but we know that it is not feasible for everyone, because to live there, you have to have means. When talking about the democratization of education, we must take into account the fact that it is not only to have an internship abroad, but also the means to survive. It's not for everyone! I, at the time, didn't have the opportunity to go abroad to study, because it was too expensive. That's right! I'm not ashamed to say it. I am open to all proposals, but I want to avoid that there are too many foreign students competing with our students for places in our hospitals, while we should send 400 or more students abroad! I say 400 to get a figure, because I don't know the number of internship places. I want to avoid that. Indeed, this would not be fair for students who, for lack of resources, do not have the opportunity to carry out their internship abroad. That's what I want to avoid. I'm open, but I want a solution for this double cohort. This problem was foreseeable since this decision was taken. However, no steps have been taken to prepare for it. In the meantime, some ways have already been voted to shorten the period of doctors who will train them. However, additional places must continue to be created until they are in sufficient numbers. It is still about the year 2018, but the following years are also concerned. We'll have the same problems for five or six years. As for the cases covered by Article 164, all the persons concerned had already received a letter from the SPI informing them that it was in order. They were already in training here, working. It is for the years to come that I want proportionality. But you have to say it in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u3	Minister, thank you for that answer. For me, what matters is your willingness to continue this partnership. We're not blocking him. You confirmed it. You're reassured. You say that those students who come to train must receive quality training. Therefore, you make a detailed analysis of the quality reception possibilities. I'm totally on the subject. It seems to me normal that there is some proportionality. As far as foreign students are concerned, I fully agree with your comments. On the other hand, with respect to the dual cohort, you say that you expect information from the deans in particular. Can you tell me whether, on the basis of this information that is necessary for the organization of the situation that will develop from 2018 and for a few years, a budget will be released? You have already worked – as you said yourself – on conditions, reduction...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u4	Precisely! Already 10 million have been set aside with INAMI. It's included in this year's budget. But nothing has been done! However, we insisted on the need to work with this money. For the rest, it is certain that this is a cost. The question is how much. For this, you have to have numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u5	You obviously need information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u6	Yes, it is. I am told that an amount of 100 to 150 million will be required. But what is the basis for advancing this figure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u7	I am quite following you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u8	We're going in circles. I'll do the math. It is obvious that the creation of a double cohort will have a price.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u9	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her answer. I will still table a motion, but it is a positive motion to say that it is hoped that the necessary budgets will be made available and that cooperation with scholarship students will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u10	I take note of this motion, but I must be in his possession. (...): I'll do the necessary for the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u11	Yes, but I need it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u12	Madam Chair, this motion is simply about continued cooperation and the need for a budget to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u13	I don't have a simple motion! Do you drop her off or not? Maybe it's not necessary? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u14	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motion was tabled. At the end of this discussion, the following motion was tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to continue to respond favourably to all medical fellows from developing countries in order to strengthen their expertise in our country and thus contribute to the improvement of health care in their countries of origin; - to draw up the necessary budgets and quickly put on the table solutions to ensure the future of all medical students by guaranteeing them quality internship places by maintaining permanent consultation with the federated entities but also with representatives of universities and students." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government - to respond positively to all applications from medical students from developing countries in order to raise their expertise in our country and thus contribute to the improvement of health care in their country of origin; - draw up the necessary budgets and quickly propose solutions to ensure the future of all medical students by ensuring their good placements, in constant consultation with the sub-areas and the representatives of the universities and students." The vote on the motion will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motion will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u15	Madam President, Minister, according to a survey conducted by Test-Achats, it appears that on average 69% of physicians would tend to prescribe sleeping pills from the first consultation, even though this is normally only recommended as a last resort. Thus, while the physicians visited in this investigation, in accordance with the recommendations in this regard, first sought to determine the causes of insomnia, it appears that they have devoted much less attention to the second stage, which normally consists of providing advice to assist the patient and avoid prescribing drugs. Indeed, drug treatment should only be considered after looking for the causes of insomnia and if the advice provided does not work. On the other hand, it appears that a minority of physicians tested in this survey who prescribed sleeping pills indicated that the sleeping pill could only be taken for a maximum of one to two weeks at the lowest dose possible and explained the effects of mental or physical dependence. Minister, I have no doubt that you have taken notice of this investigation. What is your view on this? Are measures envisaged to limit the prescription of sleeping pills? If so, which ones? Does the SPF have any specific data on the development of sleeping pills in Belgium? According to Test-Achats, it would be good for the pharmaceutical industry to offer smaller packagings to avoid chronic use of these sleeping pills. What is your position on this recommendation? Are contacts envisaged in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u16	Dear colleague, I have obviously taken note of the investigation. The problem as described in the study is known. Through the BelPEP platform (Belgian Psychotropics Experts Platform), I continue to follow this issue and invest in projects that raise awareness and support doctors on the consumption of sleeping pills and sedatives, most of which are benzodiazepines. The measures taken are the development, updating and dissemination of an aid manual for general practitioners for a correct and adequate prescription of benzodiazepines, the updating and offer of an e-learning, the updating and offer of face-to-face training by a generalist/psychologist duo, the updating of an aid manual for doctors and pharmacists and, once again, the large-scale launch of a communication campaign of the above instruments for doctors and pharmacists. This is obviously a very broad theme in mental health care where the federated entities are also competent. In last year's prevention protocol, the Interministerial Conference on Public Health committed itself to developing a common policy on psychotropic substances. In the coming weeks, my services will organize more in-depth discussions with the relevant offices of the federated entities. I hope that this can lead to appropriate synergies. The Association of Pharmacists has sales figures for benzodiazepines, i.e. the number of packages, the public price value and the daily dose, which can be requested by the SPF to enable them to monitor their use in Belgium. The SPF, in collaboration with INAMI and BelPEP, is studying the possibilities of monitoring the use of benzodiazepines and possibly other psychotropic substances in Belgium. During the evaluation of applications for placing on the market, the Medicines and Health Products Agency shall verify that the proposed packaging corresponds to the dosage and duration of treatment with the medicinal product concerned. Nevertheless, it is the pharmaceutical company that chooses which packaging will eventually be marketed. Currently, there are few legal means to demand that pharmaceutical companies actually market smaller packs. A few years ago, dosages for sleeping pills, etc., were reduced. It must also be said that there are patients who have several pharmacists from whom they buy their cans. So it is still possible to cheat, but we do not have any legal means at the moment to fight against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u17	I thank the Minister for her answer to all the questions that have been asked. You can see that the theme is under control. Of course, the last part of his answer raises questions about the lack of legal means to regulate packaging. I wonder if there would be any action to be taken in this area. We will therefore examine and see what can be done to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u18	Madam President, Minister, I had the opportunity to visit a firm that moved into my entity a few months ago and to see the issues that are being addressed. A study conducted by the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE) in 2009 showed that, each year in Belgium, in acute hospitals, 103,000 patients were the victims of nosocomial infection. These infections are responsible for 720,757 additional hospital days, €384 million in additional expenses and 2,625 additional deaths. According to a surveillance report by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, published in 2014, Belgian hospitals are poor students in terms of nosocomial infections, with 7.1% of patients contracting one while in hospital, which is significantly higher than the European average of 3.5%. So the percentage of contraction in Belgium is double that of the European average! The main cause of these infections would be inadequate hygiene of the hands of the caregivers. In this regard, a report assessing hygiene for the first time in 105 hospitals in the country was produced in 2015 by the Scientific Institute of Public Health (ISP). A second was published in October 2016. One of the main lessons of this report is that not all hospitals are making the same efforts to prevent these infections. Thus, there are disparities between hospitals, as pointed out in the 2015 report, which stated that "in some hospitals, 4% of admissions lead to nosocomial infection, while this figure can reach 10% in others. Not all hospitals are making the same efforts to prevent these infections." Furthermore, while the existence of these PSI reports can be highlighted, the current presentation of the results still provides a truncated picture. First, the data needed to carry out the survey were provided by the hospitals themselves. These have therefore not been the subject of any subsequent verification by an external body, thus making the reliability of the results dependent exclusively on the care given by hospitals to record correct data. Secondly, since they relate solely to the organisation of care, the means and the actions undertaken by the hospital, the parameters taken into account for the preparation of this report do not measure the concrete care administered in the hospital. Minister, given the impact of nosocomial diseases on both the health of patients and our health care budget, it is essential to make the fight against nosocomial diseases a priority. In order to act usefully, reliable and up-to-date data should be used as a first step. In this regard, it appears that there is no obligation for hospitals to report nosocomial infections detected within their institutions. Do you confirm this information? If so, should hospitals not be obliged to report all the cases detected to the authorities, as is the case in France for example, which would make it possible to know the actual situation in this field? Finally, with regard to hospital efforts to prevent nosocomial infections, these are currently measured only on the basis of indicators provided by the hospitals themselves. In order to obtain reliable data, would you support the establishment of an external quality control system for data collected as part of the quality indicators for hospital hygiene, as recommended by the PSI in its report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u19	Mr Senesael, the obligations of hospitals to monitor infections associated with care are defined in the Royal Decree amending the Royal Decree of 25 April 2002 on the fixing and liquidation of the financial resources of hospitals of 8 January 2015. Not all infections should be reported for several reasons. If the number of infections is high, useful information can be obtained, in some cases, from a sample, which limits the significant workload associated with data collection. In practice, monitoring protocols are established to measure the most important problems and for a defined minimum period from which results are extrapolated at national level. It is sometimes impossible to determine whether an infection is nosocomial or not and to what extent it could have been prevented by a better quality of care in the hospital. In addition, exhaustive collection has only a limited meaning, since only a proportion of infections, estimated at 30%, are preventable. This part that could have been avoided is not identifiable in comprehensive data collection. The rate of infection is only one indicator among others of the quality of infection control and the hospital's investment in infection control, which is why other equally valuable indicators are reported by hospitals. These reflect as much, if not better, the quality of the infection control program. The approach taken by the Public Health FPS through the Federal Hospital Hygiene Platform is based on a long-term vision based on a programme of continuous improvement of infection prevention programmes measured by an evolving set of indicators, which are regularly reviewed and adapted to the objectives. Data prepared and transmitted by hospitals are seen primarily as a tool for awareness-raising and internal improvement and, for some of them, as a scoreboard for public health authorities. Their use for comparison purposes between hospitals would indeed become more relevant if external quality control could enhance the reliability required for this purpose. One way forward is to strengthen collaboration in the area of inspection and control between health care administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which only partially satisfies me. On the one hand, I do not understand why you are giving evidence that could prevent further investigation into the quality of hygiene in the hospital environment. I will study in more detail the data of your answer, because being near the French border, I had compared these data with those of hospitals in Roubaix and Lille that I had visited. We realized that in France, we could really give the origin of the infection. You are telling me that it is difficult to determine whether this origin is nosocomial. I will take back the information that was transmitted to me and return to you, because I do not see what can be done in France and not in Belgium according to the elements that you bring to me. On the other hand, I mean that you could promote quality control by an external body through inspections and controls. But why don't you put these inspections and controls in place more quickly or sufficiently to further improve the situation? The numbers are intriguing. When we see that it is EUR 384 million in additional expenditure, that the number of deaths is around the additional 2,600 and that hospital days are counted at more than 720 000, I think we could be much more proactive and provide much more specific answers. I therefore remain a little dubious in the face of your answer, and I will allow myself to return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u21	Mr. Congressman, you have to be honest. The figures you cited come from the KCE study, with results from 2009. You rely on figures that are more than ten years old.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u22	The PSI study dates back to 2015!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u23	Yeah, I know. When you compare two hospitals, you have to know that there are the right students and those who still have a job to do. It is really in our interest to improve the situation everywhere. That's why there's still a strategy and we have a lot of interferons with hospitals. We know that there are significant problems in some hospitals. That pollutes the figures, we must say. If the hospital near you tells you that everything in their house is easy, I'm going to ask why it wouldn't be possible in our house. I don't know if it's due to another system or if it's one of the right students. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u24	Minister, I confirm that I will come back to you at a next question-and-answer session. I will give you additional information, which corroborates the figures, and their updating. I feel a little chilly about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, if I come back to you with regard to the victims of terrorism, it is because they have made contact with me again. Several of them clearly continue to face major challenges in terms of care and psychological support. Some victims are delivered to themselves as part of a very recent re-hospital or as a result of the attacks. The needs of the victims of the attacks in Brussels are very important. And with the ceremonies held on the date of the first anniversary of these events, the psychological burden for many of them and their loved ones has increased further. You know that voluntary and voluntary victim associations provide valuable support to these victims. They do their utmost to offer them individual assistance; they sometimes even call on the French association of victims, which is structured and supported by the public authorities. Minister, what is the government doing in terms of psychological assistance and support to victims, knowing the importance of post-traumatic stress as a result of such events? Do you think that this assistance is sufficient and meets the needs of the victims? Is it not time for the government to also provide support to victims' associations that do extraordinary work for victims seeking specific and individualized assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u26	Ms. Fonck, during the first hours and days following the March 22 attacks, a psychosocial intervention plan was developed by the Public Health FPS. The psychosocial intervention plan is active and coordinates psychosocial assistance in its first phase. Psychosocial managers help people who have suffered a traumatic event to recover as much as possible. In order to provide adequate support to victims, their families and relatives during the psycho-dramatic phase, and to prevent chronic psychological pathologies, mental health care has been integrated into the draft law on the creation of the national solidarity status, which was submitted at the request of the victims' associations. In this way, victims and their relatives will also be able to benefit from psychological support in a later phase. In addition, a request for an opinion was sent to the Higher Council of Health with a view to defining a path of care for psychological care, developing instruments of self-help and examining the role that experts in the field of living and those sharing the same experiences can play in the process of assimilation. The structural support of victims' associations is part of the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks, to which the Government is currently working.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u27	Minister, I am aware of the psychosocial plan that was put in place more than a year ago and that you are constantly recalling. As you have been told on several occasions, this plan is largely inadequate. And do not pretend that it is because of the associations representing the victims that your bill was postponed and that it is for this reason that the psychological assistance provided is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u29	You said that...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u31	Madam Minister, I would ask you to let Mrs Fonck speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u32	Even if your bill had already been passed, there is something that needs to be fundamentally changed, including the content on psychological assistance. So he wouldn't have arranged anything! If you wanted to, you didn't need a bill to accentuate and increase personal interventions for the victims of the attacks. Victims are now turning to associations because they lack adequate care. In a state like Belgium, this is not acceptable! We will come back next week at the hearings, but I would like to stress the importance of supporting the victims' associations because today they are doing the job instead of the public authorities!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u33	We'll come back to the victims next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u34	We will arrange the hearings that have been requested. We will then have discussions on the bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u35	Minister, in 2016, 1,399 clinical trials were conducted on Belgians as part of the search for innovative medicines. By these figures, Belgium ranks in countries where clinical trials are most often carried out. Volunteers are relatively well paid, with a hospitalisation of up to 2 000 euros for a period of 15 days. However, this practice raises several questions about the risks to persons undergoing these tests. Minister, my questions are as follows. How many clinical trials have been conducted in recent years? On these tests, how many are considered to be at risk? How many people have suffered from side effects with a certain degree of danger? In this case, are the necessary care dependent on the patient?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u36	Belgium is among the European countries with the highest number of clinical trials. In 2015 and 2016, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products processed 614 and 506 new applications for clinical trials, respectively. The actual number of clinical trials in progress may be lower because formal approval is not an obligation to actually perform the clinical trial in question. The AFMPS authorises clinical trials on the basis of a benefit-risk assessment. The assessment is based on a well-developed risk mitigation procedure. If the benefit-risk balance is considered to be negative, no authorisation is granted and the clinical trial cannot start. This was the case in eight clinical trials evaluated in 2015 and three in 2016. In addition to the evaluation conducted by the AFMPS, protocols and clinical trials must also have been pre-approved by an ethics committee that also assesses whether the safety and well-being of participants are sufficiently assured. If this is not the case, the protocol and therefore the clinical trial would not take place or should be adapted to ensure better safety for participants. The safety measures as provided for in existing legislation, as well as by the Drug Safety Update Reports, are followed. To date, no side effects with a certain degree of hazard have been reported. The Agency has developed a risk analysis based on the evaluation of investigator brochures to mitigate risk. In the event of a serious or serious adverse reaction, section 29 of the Human Experimentation Act of 7 May 2004 provides for a no-fault liability, which implies that the sponsor of the clinical trial is responsible for the compensation and therefore for the management of the possible treatment, even if no causal link has been demonstrated with the clinical trial in question. I can send you the exact legislative reference if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u37	Madam Secretary, we have been able to read about the stunt of some of our colleagues. A new study would show that the government could save 480 million euros by playing pharmaceutical companies against each other. This is the so-called kiwi model, which was also a hot issue here a few years ago. In doing so, the government issues public tenders for equivalent medicines and ultimately opts for the cheapest. As a result of this action, your spokesperson said that this model cannot be introduced in Belgium because of legal restrictions and that we have other methods of reducing the price of medicines. I would like to believe the latter, but experts are wondering whether it can't be a lot cheaper, or whether medicines often don't stay too expensive until the patents have expired. Moreover, the experts say that doctors prescribe a lot, also because the Belgian patient requires a lot of medicines. In this respect, too, I believe that action is needed. Madam Minister, why is it not legally possible to introduce the so-called kiwi model or a similar model? Public procurement already exists in hospitals and Flanders also uses it for vaccinations. Apparently, it can be done in the Netherlands. Do you take actions yourself or are you planning measures to make the increasingly expensive medicines cheaper? What are these measures? Finally, do you have plans to intervene on overconsumption by patients, which is related to the prescription behaviour of some doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u38	Madam Minister, I have somewhat updated my question, as you yourself have responded in the press. This week you sent a message to the world entitled "Health and medicines: future pact works, kiwi model doesn't. In that you write: "In the past, a test with the kiwi model in Belgium has already been carried out on a flop. The kiwi model causes shortages in stock, as it is no longer attractive for some manufacturers to start producing certain medicines. The risk of bankruptcy is so great for some pharmaceutical companies, that they close or move their doors. After an action by Medicine for the People, where buses to Hulst were put in to store cheaper medicines, you stated in the press that Rudy Demotte had once tried to launch the kiwi model here, which failed. Rudy Demotte indeed proposed a draft law for the application of the kiwi model in the Chamber on 22 March 2005. The intention at that time was to save some EUR 504 million. During the night of 22 to 23 March 2005, the pharmaceutical industry, in its own words, used the largest lobbying machine ever to torpedo the proposal. On the same night of 22 on 23 March 2005, Yolande Avontroodt of the Open Vld, with the support of yourself in your capacity as MP for the Open Vld, submitted a series of amendments to a draft law of your own majority. Those amendments were written by journalist Tom Cochez as a commentator for De Morgen, who reduced the kiwi to kiwimus. So, Madam Minister, if you respond today, you will do so on the kiwi and not on the kiwi itself. That is, of course, somewhat easy to pursue politically. I'll shorten my questions. In the meantime, we have brought forward a study. The RIZIV study shows that perhaps not 203 million euros but 110 million euros could be saved, because we used the 2015 figures for our study. Those were the most recent figures available. Firstly, for those ten patent medicines, the RIZIV study shows that €110 million can be saved. Why do we not save the EUR 110 million today? What is the Minister's opinion on the idea? The RIZIV shows that we can save EUR 110 million on these ten medicines. Why is this saving not simply applied? Can you confirm that figure of EUR 110 million? Secondly, you asked to calculate the 10 medications outside of patent. Why didn't you ask for that for the 25 medications? Will you ask me that? Will we get that calculation? Thirdly, I must also say that we have asked your firm to provide us with this study. We have not yet received a positive response to the request. I would therefore like to reiterate this debate in order to allow us to have a debate on the substance. Is it possible to send us the full conclusions of your study fairly quickly? For the moment, we only have what you have communicated through the press. Fourthly, a study was carried out in 2009 on the legal possibility of applying the kiwi model, decided at the time by Minister Onkelinx. We also asked your firm for this study. The library of Parliament cannot pass it on to us. Would it be possible to receive it through you? I repeat the main question: why can't we save EUR 110 million on these medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u39	I refer for a part to the answer I gave to Mr Van Hees in plenary. I assume that's what you were worried about. Our reimbursement system via the RIZIV is completely different from that in the Netherlands via the health insurance companies or in New Zealand. We don't have private health insurance companies that ignore prices with pharmaceutical companies. With us, the reimbursement is made through the Committee on Medicinal Products at the RIZIV. Indeed, after long research and many adjustments, Mr Demotte has tried to implement the kiwi model in our country. In 2007, the RIZIV was able to issue a public tender for barely two molecules. These were amlodipine, then better known as original Amlor, but now also much on the market via generics for high blood pressure, and simvastatin, well known for hypertriglyceridaemia and hypercholesterolaemia. Only a handful of firms signed up for these tenders. The Commission's experts on medicinal products reported that they saw major problems in the supply of these medicines, as small distribution companies had often won the tender. They warned of a possible stock breach and a problem of capacity to deliver many doses very quickly. Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Onkelinx and perhaps also Mrs Dedry, some of the few witnesses, will remember what has been said in the Committee on Health over the years, because all the other fellow Members here are new. I invite you to take note of the reports of all the meetings, including the nightly ones devoted to them, as well as the countless parliamentary questions. When you reread all this, you will see that the issue is still topical. As far as the supply problems are concerned, there are now daily findings in the Netherlands that there are supply problems, and not so little. We can also read this on various websites, including Dutch pharmacists. In 2014, no fewer than 800 000 prescribed medicines could be delivered in the Netherlands. The pharmacists will then have to look for an alternative. There is no alternative, given that it is a question of tendering. They must therefore look at other suppliers. The fact that 800 000 prescribed medicines could not be delivered is a risk to patients. The quality of their treatment is compromised. They may then be given an alternative, which may have side effects, or the treatment should be interrupted. Sometimes they even have to go abroad. They're coming here too, Mr. Hedebouw. There is not only traffic of your buses across the border, there is also other border traffic, as many Dutch people in Belgium come to buy their medication. The inaccessibility is anticipated in the Netherlands by importing from abroad or by paying back more expensive products, which, of course, means that some of the kiwi savings are lost immediately. Since the kiwi model does not work in our country, we have taken other and not insignificant measures to reduce the price of medicines. In Belgium innovative medicines become more frequent the goal of price fixing, which effectively lowers the effective cost of the medicinal product than the official price, which we call the facial price. In the Netherlands, the cost of patented medicines is often higher than in Belgium because all health insurance companies work together to negate. They have a monopoly there, Mr Hedebouw. You don't like to hear that word, but it does exist there. So they're going to negate themselves, and the government can't do much about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u40	Keeping the costs of innovative products under control is very important for the manageability of the pharmaceutical budget, just because they are actually much more expensive. There is also the hospital fee: one pays the same at the hospital for all medications. In this respect, solidarity between hospitalised patients plays a role. Whether one needs ten pills or one pill, in the hospital one pays the price every day. Since 2015, there has also been the Future Pact including measures such as prescribing the cheapest medicine, the patent cliff and the measure related to the biosimilary medicines. I will tell you what we are saving, Mr Hedebouw, and that is much more than the EUR 110 million that was calculated. From 2015 to 2018, the government will save 1.4 billion euros or 375 million euros per year on innovative treatments such as immune therapy. In addition, our pharmaceutical industry pays 300 million euros a year and in Belgium we have a clawback system whereby the industry pays back up to 100 million euros if it exceeds the pharmaceutical budget, a closed envelope. We have studied the kiwi model carefully and we have chosen what results most in price reductions, namely the Future Pact with 375 million euros per year plus 300 million euros per year plus the clawback system plus many other benefits, rather than a kiwi model, whose theoretical savings do not tolerate the test of reality and stock breaks, imports from abroad and interruption of patient treatment. It is unnecessary to say that there is also a cost involved. What is the main incentive to defend the Future Pact is the fact that the patient will pay EUR 60 million less for his medication. I would also like to make a comment, Mrs Jiroflée. You're talking about legal. We never said that. I do not know where that comes from either, but you are again not basing yourself on what was actually said, not even as a result of the question in the Chamber, but on the article of a journalist, who put the word legally in there for much reason. So the word "legal" is not appropriate. I will not answer that either, because we have never said that. Let me give you another flagrant example of medicines that are much more expensive in the Netherlands than here. You know Humira, most commonly prescribed in Belgium for rheumatic patients and patients with severe psoriasis. This costs 536 euros per dose for the Belgian State. That costs 100 euros more for the Dutch State. They have negotiated for this in a different way. That is 100 euro less for us, and that for a large group of patients. So I guess we're not doing too bad. Mr Hedebouw, I also have no idea of the content of a legal note that my predecessor ordered 8 years ago. I'll get them. Maybe they'll find it at the RIZIV. I certainly didn't find it in the transfer documents from one cabinet to another. When I say that I do not import the so-called kiwi model into Belgium, it is because we have many arguments that the model would not work here. Those aren't arguments from me today, they're arguments from back then. That was discussed with Minister Demotte and others all those years ago. That's because it doesn't work and would compromise the quality of our care. The quality of our care for patients must always be the first motivation. Mr Hedebouw, you can come up with many other arguments. I will listen to this every time, but you have not been able to convince me so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u41	Madam Secretary, first of all, you cannot deny that this is not legally possible. I didn't get that out of some newspaper. It's been going around for several days in all kinds of media.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u43	At least it didn't sound very serious. Secondly, the explanation you have given about the small firms that have registered makes me think that this is a way of admitting to the lobby, if the large firms do not register. Thirdly, we remain convinced that a system must be devised for the most frequently used medicines, so that we can also reduce the price. We have already put forward our ceiling price model in the past and we will do it again. The fact that a fully open kiwi model does not work here, I want to go along with it in part, but we are convinced that there are other ways of reducing the most popular medicines in price. Thank you for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u44	Madam Minister, I understand here, firstly, that it is therefore legally possible to apply the kiwi model. That is the good news this morning, for which I thank you. Secondly, you show the limits of the Dutch model. You're right about that. It is clear that in Belgium the collective power ratio of everyone's purchasing power can be used and not only in a privatized manner, as is the case in the Netherlands. This further demonstrates the idea of greater efficiency of the kiwi system in Belgium because it is not competition between a few companies but the whole collective purchasing power of workers through social security. I think that efficiency is much greater and I would like to point out that in Germany, where all this is centralized, this system is also partly used. Thirdly, you told us about stock problems. I would like to remind you that in Belgium we had a stock problem with the Ledertrexate last year with the company Pfizer and that you had to take legal action against this company which had not supplied enough stocks. This proves that your fairly liberal system of supply of medicines does not work. Finally, another important point, you did not answer about the 110 million. You are a liberal minister who has always said that you are making savings elsewhere. However, you have still not answered the question as to why the savings of EUR 110 million, which your own cabinet has calculated, are not simply being applied. The RIZIV has ordered by the cabinet...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u45	My cabinet isn't the RIZIV yet. It's not that big.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u46	Mr. Hedebouw, can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u47	Madam Secretary, can we just get that study? Is that possible? Can we get them? After all, nothing has been said about that. Is that a "jaja"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u48	The study is from the RIZIV. I'll ask Jo De Cock. I have been asked this question here on several occasions. However, when I get studies or internal notes, it is not my custom to send them out into the world. The author of the note has the right to share his work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u49	We sent an e-mail to the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u50	I'll ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u51	The RIZIV sent my e-mail to the cabinet because the cabinet ordered the study. We'd just like to know. It is important for the political debate that we have access to the relevant studies. Can Parliament be assured that Members will receive the study? After all, the RIZIV sends the study to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u52	The Minister replied that she would request the study. Is that enough for your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u53	Madam President, that's perfect. That's fantastic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u54	Madam President, Minister, there has been a great deal to do about the Medicomut 17 agreement concluded with the kinesis. On a specific aspect, I have been addressed several times in recent weeks, in particular the quality premium which was also included in the agreement. I would have liked to know what the conditions are for getting this premium, because there is uncertainty about that. The quality premium would only be maintained for conventional physicists. How much is the bounty? What period does it cover? It is reported to be the period 2011-2015. Quid with the physicists who were in agreement at that time, but who did not sign the last agreement? Is the budget you have allocated in this respect sufficient to grant the premium to those who have been accredited and have been awarded?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Muylle, the consultations with a view to concluding a new agreement before the end of this year have already started in the Committee on physiotherapists' insurance institutions. On 13 April 2017, 84.01 %, being 18 770 kinesis, joined the new agreement. It concerns the physiotherapists with a provider profile for the 2015 booking year and the physiotherapists recognised in 2016, as determined in accordance with the modalities set out in Article 12 of this Agreement. A distinction should be made as to the premium for quality promotion for physiotherapists. On the one hand, the scheme provided for in Article 3 (3) of the Medicomut 17 Agreement refers to the physiotherapists who met the quality criteria relating to the year 2015 on 29 February 2016. The operational part, to check whether physiotherapists have fulfilled the quality criteria, is provided by the non-profit association Pro-Q-Kiné. Since the premium is paid on the basis of this Agreement, it is linked to its accession to this Agreement. So that's a separate agreement. On the other hand, this year, a draft decision is being prepared by the RIZIV which will introduce a new quality system and a related premium from 2017. The detailed arrangements and conditions will be the subject of further consultations between the sickness funds and the occupational associations of the kinesis during the following months. This is also one of the topics of the task force kinesitherapy, set up under the direction of the Director-General of the Department of Medical Care of the RIZIV, under the agreement M 17 and the covenant with it. It is too early to give specific information on the modalities and conditions of that system, which will only enter into force in the future. In addition, the premium for quality promotion is linked to the criteria for the year 2015. This amounts to EUR 2 000 per physiotherapist. The number of physiotherapists meeting all the conditions remains to be determined. The premium for quality promotion linked to the 2015 criteria can be paid relatively quickly by the RIZIV as soon as all the required data are available. It is still too early to make valid statements on the payout under the new quality system. The new quality system is under development and it will be there, as agreed, but the criteria per kinesis still have to be determined. After that, it can be quick. The budget for this has already been provided for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u56	Madam Secretary, now it's clear to me. There are two agreements, two separate systems. I assume that those who fulfilled the conditions in February 2015 will receive the EUR 2 000 premium if they are accredited. I also note that it is not a closed budget envelope. After all, I read on the website that only 1.2 million will be allocated for this purpose, which would not be sufficient to pay the premium to anyone who had succeeded in February or obtained the accreditation on the basis of 2015. I understand from your answer that those who meet the conditions will receive the premium of EUR 2 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u58	I read that on the professional organisations' website. Maybe you could check that out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u59	Axxon's site?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u61	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u62	Indeed, there has already been a lot on that website.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u63	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u64	It's obvious, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u65	Madam Minister, this question concerns a dossier which has already been discussed here on a number of occasions, in particular the cooperation agreements with the Netherlands and border management. I had first submitted a general question that came from one of the first people who contacted me about it. This concerns in particular a patient who is being treated for epilepsy in a center in Heeze in the Netherlands. He was effectively referred to this by the center in Genk that treated him. Until recently this was possible with the cooperation agreements. Now, however, the sickness fund has sent a letter that these cooperation agreements have been terminated. I have also brought them with me, which removes the right to reimbursement of those concerns. It would then be mainly about hospitalization because it is true that the reimbursement of all concerns across borders has certainly not been stopped. In this particular case it would then be about the necessary hospitalization. This is necessary because a particular medicine, Trobalt, has been withdrawn from the market and a new therapy has to be used for this patient. In the meantime, I've been looking. Mr Van Peel has already asked a question about this in committee. It was specifically about the Limburg case. You then referred to several questions that Mr Jadin had already asked about this. I went to see what that was all about. If I understand correctly, it is far from certain that all concerns as they have been addressed in the cooperation contexts will be effectively compensated under the same conditions. The information from the health insurance funds that I have here that it is still waiting, is therefore correct. So I went to look at the EU directive we were talking about last time. This appears to be the Directive from 2011, adopted in 2013. So that was four years ago. That is also the subject of my second question. If this directive has been spread to the Member States for so long, why has it not been introduced before so that there would be clarity for patients? If I understand correctly, the care may be continued today, but within the RIZIV there is still a reflection on what concerns we are going to pay in what way across the border. There is therefore, above all, uncertainty because of the vacuum created and not because of the EU directive in itself, which still needs to be transposed. So you really pointed out a causal link between this EU directive and the cessation of cooperation. However, if I understand correctly, this EU directive has just come about because cooperation agreements with some countries had to be established because there was no legislative framework. Can you clarify that this EU directive effectively allows the same kind of care to be reimbursed, so that similar agreements can be concluded within our national legislation? What steps have been taken? Can you provide clarity for people who need cross-border care?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u66	Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your two questions. This is indeed about the transposition of a 2011 European directive on the application of patients' rights to cross-border care, with the result that since October 2013, access to planned cross-border care has been regulated by various legal instruments. For example, European Union law provides two ways to obtain reimbursement of planned medical care in another Member State, namely on the basis of the 2004 Regulations No 883 and No 987 of 2009 on the coordination of social security systems and the 2011 Directive, as transposed into the legislation on compulsory health insurance. In addition to European Union law, since the 1960s our Belgian federal legislation has provided for various schemes for planned medical care abroad, with or without prior authorisation, such as the E112 form. There are also various forms of cooperation in the field of cross-border healthcare, often involving cooperation agreements in border areas which facilitate the obtaining of prior authorisation. A good example was the IZOM map in the German-speaking Community. As a result, the legal framework in the field of planned medical care has become a very complex issue. There appeared to be a need for further clarification of the regulatory framework on access to cross-border care for Belgian patients, in particular with regard to the issue of a prior authorisation. Therefore, the RIZIV has asked the Observatory Social Européen to identify the different procedures on the basis of which patients can obtain access to medical care abroad provided that a prior authorisation is given by a Belgian insurance institution. The research paper of the Observatoire Social Européen on planned medical care abroad was only delivered at the end of 2016. This report provided additional information on a number of stress fields and challenges in the field of cross-border healthcare. Taking into account the amended regulatory framework at European level on access to cross-border healthcare, whether planned or not, and its impact on the field and the evaluation report of the IZOM cooperation agreement at the end of 2015, we now have sufficient elements for a possible adjustment of the regulatory framework, including border management. The aim is to establish a regulatory framework for all Belgians, not only for those in the border region, in the area of planned cross-border medical care abroad, with national and European legislation aligned as much as possible, but without losing sight of Belgium's special situation as a large border area. After all, we are a country with three borders, without counting the North Sea. One of the guiding principles is that there must be a level playing field for all Belgian insurances, with the provision package of compulsory health insurance as the basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u67	The 2011 Directive encourages Member States and, in particular, neighbouring countries to cooperate on cross-border care in border regions. The aim of the directive is therefore to promote cooperation between Member States in areas such as e-health, health technology or the establishment of European referral networks, but it does not aim at legally establishing cooperation agreements within the meaning of the IZOM cooperation agreement, as you call them. Under European Union and Belgian rules, Belgium cannot be obliged to reimburse planned medical benefits in kind abroad, whether or not on the basis of a prior authorisation if they are not reimbursed by its own health system when they are provided on its own territory. Under the IZOM cooperation agreement, residents of the province of Limburg may receive a prior authorisation through document 112 until 30 June 2017, without checking whether the medical care for which they went to the Netherlands was covered by the compulsory health insurance. They were therefore actually able to receive medical care under Dutch legislation. You know that there is work there with delivery packages, different rates and different own contributions payable by Belgian sickness insurance, including benefits in kind not reimbursed by Belgian compulsory sickness insurance. In the light of the amended European regulation, as well as the lack of transparency on the application of this agreement, where possible abuses of certain cooperation agreements to circumvent the rules on compulsory health insurance, my administration and, in particular, the RIZIV have already made an in-depth evaluation report on the IZOM cooperation agreement in 2014. This was delivered at the end of 2015 by the Belgian signing partners, namely the Belgian sick funds. However, this evaluation did not provide an adequate response to the questions raised. The national contact point for cross-border healthcare is currently limited to providing general information on access to and reimbursement of cross-border healthcare to the legal framework laid down in European Union law. For information on specific schemes that would still exist for certain insurances, patients are in the first instance always dependent on their sickness fund. There is now a regulation by means of the transposition of the European directive, which simplifies all Belgians, wherever they live. It facilitates smooth cross-border cooperation in Europe, also in the opposite sense. The limitation is that one stays within the legal limits. One will repay whatever is refunded here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It's good that studies have taken place. I wasn't aware of that. This explains why the transposition took longer after the Directive was distributed to the Member States. That's a good policy. I hope that there will soon be clarity for the people on the ground about what will and will not be repaid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u69	Madam Minister, I was recently questioned by the French documentary entitled "Tampon, our intimate enemy". Indeed, it turns out that women use an average of 11,000 tampons during their lifetime, while no one knows exactly what their exact composition is. This issue, which is a public health issue, has been ignored, perhaps because the taboo still surrounding the rules would allow brands not to disclose the actual contents of the buffers. However, today it turns out that tampons can cause toxic shock syndrome resulting in brutal exhaustion, high fevers, or even more severe. According to some researchers, the buffer would also allow the golden staphylococcus, of which 20 to 30% of women are carriers, to develop. Currently, there are no studies available to identify the exact ingredients of tampons and the risks they pose to women's health. This documentary shows that endocrine disruptors and other pollutants are present in numbers in buffers. Some researchers even go further by concluding that they may, in some cases, be responsible for endometriosis or even infertility. Minister, do you consider the issue of buffer composition to be important? Is that disturbing to you? Are there any studies on the actual components of buffers? If not, would it not be interesting for such a study to be conducted? Have recent studies of endocrine disruptors been conducted? What is the status of discussions on endocrine disruptors at European level? On the basis of the precautionary principle, are new initiatives such as the prohibition of certain substances envisaged in this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u70	Minister, the risks of buffer-related toxic shock syndrome are well known. It is also linked to certain types of buffers and their inappropriate use. It is the infectious part, especially the multi-resistant golden staphylococcus. On the other hand, what concerns us is the possible composition in buffers of toxic products such as phthalate, dioxin or others. I've already asked you about this on several occasions, including about babies' languishes. You promised me a study of all the women's hygiene products and baby's tanges. You announced it to me in June 2016, you confirmed it in November 2016. What is the status of the implementation of this study, and how is it being implemented? When will we get the results? In addition, information to consumers on the composition of women's hygiene products and how to use tampons is particularly important. It also seems essential to me that women's hygiene products and baby swaths be placed in the category of medical devices, in order to prohibit any carcinogen, mutagenic and reprotoxic components.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u71	Minister, 20 to 30% of women are believed to be carriers of the Golden Staphylococcal bacterium. When this bacterium comes into contact with sanitary pads, it can cause toxic shocks that can have very serious consequences. In addition, an investigation showed that in most buffers, 20 to 30 chemicals would be found, including phthalates suspected to be carcinogenic. Do you have statistics on toxic shocks related to buffers? How can we better inform and educate women about this dangerous phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u72	Madam Minister, I am not going to repeat what my colleagues have said. I would stress the lack of information on the various substances and the toxicity of some of them, and the presence of endocrine disruptors, which is the subject of a European debate on their identification. Belgium's position in this area is demanding, and we must be able to persevere. Has a study been carried out in Belgium on the components of sanitary buffers? How do you plan to guarantee and improve information for users? There are now so-called phthalate-free organic cups and cups, which are increasingly common among young girls. Would a campaign by the Ministry of Health for these new forms of hygiene protection not be necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u73	The special specifications for the study of certain personal hygiene products are being finalized. Its publication is scheduled before the summer and after my services with the FPS Public Health and Food Chain Safety and the Environment have determined the number of products to be analyzed. It is planned to first analyse the tangentials for children. At that time, you had asked questions about this, focusing on the language of categories 2, 3 and 4, i.e. those with which the children are in contact for the longest time. A scan of the market of major brands, brands of distributors and white products will be carried out. An identical analysis will be done on sanitary pads, at the latest in 2018, simultaneously with the analysis of sanitary pads because it is the same problem. Specific research is planned on certain types of chemicals such as pesticides, phthalates, dioxins, fluorinated molecules, as well as a comprehensive scan to formally identify substances and concentrations of these substances in these products. My services are following the ongoing work on this subject, particularly those carried out in France by INSEE. The scope of our study could be adjusted on the basis of information coming from it. After the analysis of the composition of the products covered by the study, a risk analysis taking into account the hazard of the substances identified and the consumer exposure associated with typical normal use will be carried out. We know there are inappropriate uses. Personally, as a general practitioner, I've had to remove buffers blocked for three days. Use is therefore inappropriate. These women had forgotten that they had put a stamp on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u74	It's good you found them!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u75	The story didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u76	At that time, it is necessary to develop a culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u77	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u78	To tell you that twenty-five years of practice counts! Currently, sanitary pads are not covered by the European definition for medical devices. Extending the scope of this definition seems difficult, but provisions based on the new measures recently adopted at EU level concerning the limitation of substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or reciprotoxic to 0.1% of endocrine disruptors could be considered on the basis of the results of the study carried out by me and those carried out in other Member States at present. I come to Mrs Jadin's questions. While other bacteria such as streptococcus aureus may cause shock syndromes, gilded staphylococci bacteria are usually responsible in cases associated with the use of hygienic tampons. The risk of developing a toxic shock is related to virulence factors of the strain, hence the production of toxins, host predisposition factors, use of hygienic buffers and their composition. However, all toxic shocks are obviously not linked to the use of sanitary tampons. There is no proper monitoring of the so-called toxic shock syndrome in Belgium. However, the National Reference Centre funded by INAMI collects this data for staphylococci aureus via the test application form. The National Reference Centre receives two to three strains per year, on which to conduct a study of staphylococcal toxic syndrome. There is no increase in the number of applications. Information on the proper use of sanitary pads is given in the package inserts, but it must be said that these leaflets include many pages. We don't know if they're always read from start to finish. I am aware that some people do not read the notices. I will therefore put this item on the agenda of the meeting of the National Health and Environment Unit, to pass on the issue of women's awareness of this issue to my counterparts in the Communities and Regions in charge of health prevention and promotion. Informing women and girls repeatedly about the proper use of tampons is indeed important. Mrs Gerkens, concerning hormone disruptors, the European Commission is currently discussing criteria for pesticides and biocides. It's quite difficult, but we could broaden the discussion on this topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u79	Minister, thank you for all these concrete answers. I can hear your willingness to move forward on this issue, but I have the impression that women's health is often set aside. For contraception, you have to take hormones that can be harmful to your health. Now we learn that tampons, essential in women's lives, can also be harmful. It is time to put women's health at the forefront.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u80	Minister, I hope that we will have the results of these studies fairly quickly, as they are not yet launched. I am concerned that there is no transparency in the companies that produce these hygienic products in the broad sense of the term, i.e. women's hygiene products and tanges. At the very least, we should be able to demand that transparency. It is still crazy that it is necessary to have to do studies to know the composition of their products while these companies know them! Therefore, it is not only necessary to limit the content of these substances, but in view of the stakes involved and the close contacts of these products with the body, it is necessary to plead for the prohibition in these hygienic products of any carcinogen, mutagenic and reprotoxic component. There are no other choices with respect to this type of product, given the long and close contacts, whether in babies with tanges or in women throughout their lives. I hope that in Belgium, but also at European level, we will be able to make positive and concrete progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u81	Minister, I can only stress the importance of greater transparency. Your answer has learned a lot! Women's health must indeed be emphasized and should be a priority. Transparency in the composition of tanges, tampons, etc. is indeed very important. It is a debate that I believe should also be conducted at European level. Finally, Madam President, I would like to inform you that I am turning all my questions into written questions on our agenda because I have an urgent appointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u82	Madam Minister, I would like to join my colleagues in stressing that, with regard to the various substances that have been identified today, it seems illusory to me to believe that thresholds will be respected, given the cocktails of these substances and the effects that are below the acceptable threshold. We'll have to think about banning the presence of different substances. You didn't answer my question about the cups. Let me stress that these are new practices, even if they have existed for some time. It would be interesting to look at the issue and improve information on the use of this protection rather than towels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u83	The attached questions Nos. 18346, 18390 and 18415 by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and Mr. Raoul Hedebouw are deferred at the request of Ms. Onkelinx. Questions Nos 18348, 18354 and 18358 by Ms Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u84	Minister, I read an article in the renowned scientific journal JAMA in April 2017 about organ donation after euthanasia. The authors of the study, from the University of Maastricht, report that they have received from the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia, access to the data of all persons euthanized in 2015 in Belgium. Obviously these are anonymised but individual data. Article 9 of the Euthanasia Act of 28 May 2002 provides that "the Commission may decide to communicate statistical and purely technical information, excluding any personal data, to university research teams which request reasons". Madam Minister, could you please clarify to me the data transmitted to the researchers? Are these aggregate statistical data, i.e. those included in the biennial report and transmitted to the House of Representatives, or are they individual data, anonymised, but for each person euthanized? Could you also clarify to me the number of university research teams to which the Commission has provided information? Could you give me details of this research (objectives, data transmitted, etc.)( )? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u85	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your question. You know that the Federal Euthanasia Monitoring and Evaluation Commission is not one of my services. She's a member of the House. But I requested the information from the secretariat of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia. As regards the data transmitted to you in your first question, the Commission confirms that these are individual, anonymised statistical data derived from Part II of the declaration of euthanasia. It's the anonymous and confidential part. The data transcribed shall respect the anonymity and confidentiality of the declarations. The data in Part I, containing the name and address, are therefore not included. These data are used as a basis for the statistics in the report. Patients cannot be identified on the basis of these statistics. [[The bank data transmitted to the research teams are the file number, language, age of the patient, sex of the patient, place of death (at home, in hospital, in a nursing and nursing home or other), basis of euthanasia (current request or early notification), category of condition according to WHO classification, code ICD-10 (e.g. tumour), sub-category of condition at the basis of the euthanasia request, according to WHO classification (e.g. breast malignant tumour), supplementary information (presence of metastases, depression, cancer), time of death (bref or non-short), qualification of the first physician consulted in all cases (a generalist, specialist, palliative physician), qualification of the second physician consulted in case of death, not foreseen at short notice (psychiatric or specialist), other person or body consulted (medicine or psychologist, palliative or other team), type of suffering (psychic or physical), type of transmission or other conditions used (for example, treatment of pain), method and information of the other complaints (for example, treatment of pain or other conditions), type of pain (for example, treatment of pain, treatment of pain or other (for pain) or other conditions (for pain, procedure, procedure, treatment of pain, treatment of pain, or other (for pain, treatment of pain, treatment of pain, or other (for pain, treatment of pain, treatment for pain, treatment for pain, treatment for pain, treatment for pain, treatment for pain, treatment for pain, treatment for pain, treatment for pain, treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment for treatment]] The Euthanasia Commission has never submitted the individual file. As far as the research teams are concerned, the Commission secretariat replied that since 2014, the Euthanasia Commission has transmitted the statistical data to the following research teams: the Zorg round het Levenseinde research group of the VUB and the University of Ghent; and Professor Jan Bollen of the University of Maastricht, who is conducting a study on the number of patients who may be able to give their organs after euthanasia. No one else.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u86	Et avant 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u87	I don't know. I'll check it out, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u88	Thank you, Madam Minister. It would be interesting to know whether they had changed practice after 2014 or whether they had already distributed it. I hear your answer and thank you for asking the secretariat of the Commission to provide it. These data are anonymised, but this Commission depends on Parliament and I note that much more precise data are provided to universities, including abroad, than we can have here. I think it would make sense for Parliament to have the same information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u89	We have received the Euthanasia Evaluation Commission here in committee and this is one of the things that we have to report directly to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u90	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u91	That's right. But the recommendation can be made directly, without going through the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u92	Madam Minister, this is one of the measures that you have taken in the previous budgetary exercise and which we certainly welcome. I've reminisced it here. Our group stands for a more effective health care system. When we look at the budgets of Social Affairs, which you manage, we see that this amounts to half of the federal budget. Public health accounts for EUR 30 billion, approximately one fifth of the federal budget. In particular, you are committed to an evidence-based policy, which we certainly welcome. When we look at reports that examine our health care, such as OECD reports, we see that, as a country compared to similar countries, we spend a large proportion of our budget on public health, but we do not deliver the very best quality. We are certainly not in the lower regions, but we can do better. The latest OECD report deals specifically with tackling waste, so how we can deal with this waste even further. Our group is always trying to think along these lines. Because if we tackle overconsumption, waste and fraud, we will free up budgets for, for example, our caregivers or new needs for care. You are also explicitly using the new immunotherapy, for example on the medical-oncological level. One of the measures to deal more efficiently and better with the health budget is the rationalisation of stomach acid inhibitors. I had also asked a written question on this subject, which was the reason for this dossier. This showed that the number of daily doses climbed from 270 million to 350 million euros in four years. In practice, it was regularly testified that it was prescribed too, but also too impenetrable and often as a means of comfort. We were very pleased that you wanted to work on this in the 2016 budget. As far as the export of the adjustment of the refund of antacids is concerned, I still have some questions. The introduction was actually planned for early 2017, but in the meantime it's only just finished. What's with the delay? What exactly happened there? The scheme is not 100% clear to us. In what cases will this be repaid and in which cases will it not be repaid? Where exactly can we find that information? I searched the website of the RIZIV, but I can't find anything there about Barrett, which comes back in my next question. If I understand correctly, the biggest adjustment is that large packs of PPIs are no longer refunded, but the smaller ones. On the ground, we are told that it is possible that patients simply go to their doctor for a double dose, so for two packages of a smaller size instead of one large. How do you see that? An exception would be provided for Zolinger, but only for Barrett in certain cases, in particular, and I found that in an answer to an earlier question, namely who has been treated with radio frequency ablation until the RFA zone is healed. I got the question from some people with Barrett why this is specifically only for that sub-application. The specialists prescribe it to all people with Barrett. Their findings seem to be based on scientific research. Perhaps you have other studies that do not show that it is appropriate to prescribe generalised to Barrett? My last question. Do you provide for a general refund for Barrett? If you cling to the subpopulation, the people treated with radio frequency ablation, what scientific findings is that based on?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u93	It is quite right that these two questions should be dealt with together. As of 1 April 2017, the remuneration conditions for certain medicinal products of the class of the so-called proton pump inhibitors PPI are indeed changed for the treatment of gastroduodenal pathology. This amendment is based on evidence-based medicine and is indeed contained in the package of measures taken at that time on saving measures. The improper use in health care has also been part of it. So, from 1 April 2017, the health insurance no longer reimburses the packs that are too large for high doses of symptomatic maintenance treatments of gastroduodenal pathology. These packages, on the other hand, are free for the patient in two situations: firstly, in the case of high consumption for which an exception is justified, i.e. the treatment of Zollinger-Ellison's syndrome and, secondly, the post-treatment of a radio frequency ablation of the esophagus mucosa for Barrett mucosa. Following thorough investigation, the Commission concluded that a deletion was indicated for packs of more than 60 tablets for proton inhibitors at the highest dose, allowing a treatment hour not described in package leaflets or in the Commission's recommendations Medication Medicinal products for their proper use. The marked packs are not mentioned as maintenance treatment, but only as treatment of acute disease. However, they are widely used for maintenance treatment. At that point even if evidencebased, the reason why they are prescribed, is not the right reason. As a result, patients who follow symptomatic maintenance treatment of gastroenteral reflux with the highest dose of gastric acid inhibitors should reduce or even discontinue therapy after eight weeks to a lower dose, albeit of course on the basis of a phasing-out schedule. The measure affects the peroral proton pump inhibitors for the treatment of gastroduodenal pathology with the following active substances: Omeprazole 40 mg*, Pantoprazole 40 mg* and Rabeprazole 10 and 20 mg*. Packs of more than sixty units of these proton pump inhibitors are transferred from Chapter 2 to Chapter 4 from the list of recoverable proprietary medicinal products and therefore only reimbursed for the patient are they free of charge for the treatment of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, the incidence of which is very small, and the post-treatment of radiofrequency ablation of the esophagus mucosa for Barrettmucosa. Chapter 2 contains medicinal products for which there are widely distributed and commonly known principles of good medical practice and for which a post-control is applied. Chapter 4 contains medicinal products for which reimbursement is subject to conditions with prior authorization from the medical adviser of the sickness fund. That only the post-treatment of a radio frequency ablation of the esophageal mucosa for Barrettmucosa was selected for reimbursement in chapter 4, is based on the above-mentioned recommendations of the Commission Meeting Medicinal Products and also on the American Gastroenterological Association Institute Technical Review of 2008, Nature Reviews Gastroenterology of 2010, American Gastroenterological Association Medical Position Paper on the management of Barrett. Treatment of Barrettmucosa does not require longer maintenance treatments with PPIs and more, but does require regular controls. Allow me to say once again that in the newspapers we still often read reports from people who have been prescribed a large box with a high dose of PPIs, while the pharmacist tells them that they are no longer reimbursed. We would like the prescribers to take into account the new evidence-based adjustments, also in the interests of their patients. In such cases, the pharmacist sends the people back to the doctor or the pharmacist delivers a smaller dose which will be refunded. He can also just say he's delivering the box and she won't be repaid. I've already had someone like that. Then these people have to pay 45 euros. There are also some frustrations with the pharmacists about the fact that not all doctors know if something has changed. However, that documentation is sent to them in detail and it appears in their customized computer program for prescribing. The patient is therefore responsible, but the same applies to the prescribers and pharmacists who deliver the medicines. I would certainly like to say that there are also good ones who provide the necessary information. However, there is still some disinformation. Mr Hedebouw, perhaps you can help to make the information on the PTB's websites a little more honest. I would ask you to do the same with this one. After all, it says on your website that they are simply not refunded at all. So that's a lie, that's disinformation, that's really scaring people because they couldn't get their trusted pills anymore. Surely that can't be your intention, you who mean it so well with all your fellow men?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u94	Madam Secretary, I can only agree with that. I have already seen effective communications from patients whose doctor himself says that he would prescribe it but that it will not be repaid. It is important that they give the patient the scientific research on which the findings are based and which guides the policy. I will certainly do so with your answer. It is, of course, important for people to be reassured that the treatment as we repay it is based on extensive scientific research. I'll definitely get it to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u95	Madam Minister, since 1 May 2017, part of the antibiotics are no longer classified under reimbursement category B, but under reimbursement category C. The return payment thus remains but decreases due to the shift of category. Previously, patients paid 25% out of their own pocket and who enjoyed an increased allowance 15%. Now the patient has to pay 50 %. Sensitisation campaigns were launched in order to significantly reduce antibiotic use. Just now it was about the prescriber behaviour, which can also be worked on. The media recently announced that there would be legal problems with the measure introduced from 1 May. Several professionals have responded to this. In particular, we would not comply with our international commitments and, more specifically, with the European Social Security Code and its protocol. It says that there can be a maximum brake charge of 25% for the necessary medicines. The 50% is therefore not in line with that European Code. Is that correct, Madam Secretary? I would have liked more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u96	Madam Minister, Mrs Muylle has already raised the question sufficiently. The antibiotics are initially classified under reimbursement category C instead of reimbursement category B, which increases the cost. There were a number of sensitising campaigns aimed at reducing the use of antibiotics. I have received several e-mails following reports in the media about the international agreements. There was also an opinion from a professor of VUB and others, asking whether or not there is a legal problem due to the shift of certain antibiotic from reimbursement category B to C. If so, will the Commission amend the rules on medicinal products? In what direction? If not, can you explain why the messages in the media are not correct? It seemed to me to be a logical and plausible explanation. You just quoted it yourself, the prescription behaviour of doctors is very important. So you will probably agree with me that it is at least as important to teach the doctors a different prescriptive behavior. What awareness actions do you take in this respect? Finally, antibiotics are life-saving in a number of diseases. Is the decision to scale antibiotics instead of category B in category C correct? Should not some antibiotics be classified in category B under certain conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u97	Madam Minister, my fellow Members have already explained the problem. One of your arguments was that the consumption of antibiotics in Belgium is three times higher than in the Netherlands, that a higher price would inhibit over-consumption and that if the price increases, one will think twice before taking antibiotics. That's a strange argument. Overconsumption must be resolved by adjusting the prescription behaviour of doctors. In the Netherlands, prices for antibiotics are a lot lower and yet consumption is lower. General practitioners and patients should be even more sensitized. One should also look at the pressure exerted by the pharmaceutical industry to prescribe as much as possible. However, for the vast majority of people there is no price for health. There is little price elasticity. Patients are willing to pay a lot of money if they believe that will benefit their health. Only the most vulnerable patients will not take their antibiotics for financial reasons. Just with them, complicated bronchitis will lead to pneumonia. And then we'll be farther from home. This can cost social security even more over time. Changing the category of medicines is a very significant step. We really should not go over that lightly. Antibiotics are recognised by the World Health Organisation as essential medicinal products. The European Social Security Code requires that no more than 25% on average should be levied on such essential medicinal products. Thus, by placing antibiotics in category C, Belgium breaks international commitments, including the European Code. Professor Freek Louckx of the VUB has already confirmed that this goes against binding obligations and that patients can challenge what they pay too much for antibiotics in court. Jan De Maeseneer of Ghent University also criticized the measure. He even called it a stupid measure. Madam Secretary, how do you justify the classification of antibiotics under reimbursement category C, medicines for symptomatic treatments? How do you justify breaking the European Social Security Code? Are you seeking any adjustments to the categories of the reimbursement system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not aware of any legal problems that have so far arisen in relation to the changed treatment of antibiotics. The amendments to the repayment condition have been made within the legal procedures. I take note of Mr De Maeseneer's remarks, but I can give you 17 pages of them. I also take note of Professor Louckx's comments. The European Code, to which you refer, does not oppose the patient's financial contribution and sets an average ceiling for medicines. In addition, the essential nature of medicinal products was evaluated taking into account various factors, such as the situation of the individual patient, the social importance and the need to reduce the occurrence of antibiotic resistance. If there are deaths, there are more because of antibiotic resistance. This is a global problem, which is taken very seriously by the WHO, as well as by the European Commission. It might be a hidden problem. When a patient suffers from sepsis, it is often due to antibiotic resistance and that is usually fatal. The location of antibiotics in the therapeutic arsenal has not been altered by the change in the reimbursement category. From a regulatory point of view, the category is only defined by the rate of refund applicable. In the context of investments in effective care, the RIZIV is currently examining, inter alia, how to implement the objective indicators set out by BAPCOC for 2015-2019 in a strategic plan related to the use of antibiotics in the outpatient practice. This means a reduction in antibiotic use from 800 to 600 regulations by 2020 and to 400 in 2025 per thousand inhabitants, a decrease in quinolone consumption from 10 to 5 percent of antibiotic consumption in 2018 and an increase in the amoxicillin versus amoxicillin clavular acid ratio, which covers a much wider spectrum, from 50 to 50 percent to 80 versus 20 percent in 2018. For the second measure, the Commission has been instructed to take action to prepare a proposal for the adjustment of the reimbursement modalities of quinolones. With regard to the first and the third, there is also a communication with regard to the general practitioners in the course of 2017. That communication will focus on those objectives and aims to sensitise the general practitioners. We know that many prescribers are subject to the outpatient regulations, i.e. dentists, domestic doctors and also consular specialists. The group-by-group review that led to the modification of the reimbursement category concerned only antibiotics administered orally and available in the open official. Consequently, Mrs Dedry, antibiotics administered intravenously or by inhalation, i.e. with aerosols, as well as antibiotics for which use is reserved for the hospital, which are very specific antibiotics, usually used in the case of resistances, retain their original reimbursement category. This also applies to the problem of hospitalized people, because even when it comes to peroral treatments, they are covered by the hospital for medicinal products. Therefore, exceptions have already been made in this area. Mr Hedebouw, for the most vulnerable people, the maximum invoice remains applicable. You should also know that the people you call the most vulnerable are all in fact within the group of beneficiaries. That group has 1.9 million citizens in our country out of our 11 million citizens. Almost one fifth of our citizens are therefore in this preferred category, and that group is still expanding. For the most vulnerable, much lower braking charges apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u99	Thank you for your answer. The only thing I would like to add is that 20 years ago there were actions, with heavy brochures by Domus Medica, then the WVVH, to deal with the prescription behaviour of the doctors and certainly of the general practitioners. At that time, it was not possible or hardly possible. I hope that the communication to the general practitioners that they have to change their prescription behaviour, this time is well thought out and is successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u100	Madam Secretary, I shall return to the argument of overconsumption. When we look at the situation in the Netherlands, we do not see that link there at all. Making more payments does not reduce consumption. Apparently, that's a dogma you're working on, but it doesn't work that way. I think that's where the problem lies in your reasoning. This will therefore not produce good results on the ground. I think you should change the prescribers' behavior rather than make the medications more expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic675x.u101	We're stopping our work now. At the next meeting, in two weeks, we will start with Question No 18318 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp.
