ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the block chain model is one of the technological models of tomorrow's economy. Some speak of a revolution in power, as the Internet was a few years ago. Others even go so far as to predict that these block chains will one day replace a whole series of services. Many financial companies are also exploring opportunities. Released in 2009 with virtual currencies, the block chain is a computer code generated by encryption software that allows to transcribe financial transactions performed in cryptocurrency. Transaction actors are identified by codes and these transactions are stored on a trading platform in the form of a long line of encrypted codes. These data are so far considered inviolable and non-modifiable. The main feature of the block chain is its decentralized architecture, i.e. it is not hosted by a single server but by a part of the users. The block chain can be used in three ways: for the transfer of assets (currency, securities, shares, etc.).), for better traceability of assets and/or products or for automatic execution of contracts (smart contracts). Finally, it should be noted that the model can be used in private but also by the State. Estonia launched e-Citizenship based on this technology. My colleague Jean-Marc Nollet asked you about this more or less a year ago. The issue was also discussed in the context of the general policy discussion (digitization part). Minister, I would like to know what you have undertaken as Minister responsible for the Digital Agenda, but also what your government colleagues have undertaken in this area. Are there any plans underway for the federal government to use, to some extent, the technology? Is the block chain on your calendar? Is it part of your digital strategy? What concrete actions are envisaged for the coming months? You talked about working groups that have been set up on the subject. Do you already have intermediate conclusions? Have you been brought to your attention on certain points?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u2	Mr President, Minister, society is increasingly interested in blockchain technology. This technology became known in the first place in the world of cryptocurrency, of which the bitcoin is the most famous. However, the technology has much more scope for application, with different public authorities also being targeted. A blockchain is comparable to an accounting system in which all kinds of transactions are kept. The blockchain has two special properties. Firstly, he is immutable, in the sense that once one adds something, it can never be removed or changed afterwards. After all, the addition in one block is connected to the previous and remaining blocks...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Secondly, there are not just tens, hundreds or thousands of copies of these accounts. The blockchain is not centrally tracked, but with different users. This means that one of these users cannot change the blockchain unnoticed. The blockchain must be identical with all users at any time. The potential applications for the government have therefore been extended. A possible use of the blockchain is in the sale of real estate. Today the purchase must be recorded at the mortgage office, at a government agency for issuing a permit, at a notary, etc. The blockchain provides the possibility to replace the intermediaries for these tasks with files that are spread across a lot of computers that keep checking each other in this way. Thus the information about the purchase is unbreakable and always up-to-date. In the meantime, many governments and private players have shown concrete interest in this technology. The Dutch Ministry of Finance is already conducting a number of tests. A total of 27 exploratory projects are already under way in the Dutch government. Minister, this question has already gone through the discussion of your policy paper in this committee, because you explained at that time that a working group would be set up to zoom in on this technology, among other things. Perhaps you can give me some more information and hence my next questions. Has an initial investigation been carried out to determine whether blockchain technology could play a role in the future in the current functioning of the federal government? If yes, which public service tasks and processes are covered? Has a vision been developed on the possible role of blockchain technology? What steps should be taken to apply blockchain technology? At what time do you see the application of blockchain technology to the public administration and processes of the federal government? Mr Vanden Burre, I have also asked the Minister of Work a question specifically about blockchain technology and unemployment benefits. Minister, I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u3	Mr President, the "chain of blocks" model – without any connection with the minister – is a very promising innovation within the public authorities. Indeed, it offers the opportunity to increase the speed and efficiency of systems. That is why we are assessing how new technologies such as the block chain can help us improve our public processes. All such technological developments must be monitored and analysed in terms of their capacity to improve public digital services. The monitoring, called "technology watch", is carried out in particular within the DG Digital Transformation of SPF BOSA. As regards the block chain, a cross-cutting working group was launched on 30 March 2017 at the initiative and under the direction of DG Digital Transformation of SPF BOSA in collaboration with Smals. The latter, called blockchain coalition, is composed of representatives from all levels of power as well as several centres of expertise. Representatives from Antwerp, Brussels, Flanders, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, a representative of the German-speaking Community, the Digital Agency, Ensemble Simplifions, CIRP, the DJ Police, DG Digital Transformation, Smals, Victor and the Agency for Administrative Simplification are also present, as are members of IMIO and the National Register. The objectives of this working group are twofold. The first is to analyse how to optimize processes between different levels of government, in a creative and coordinated way, with the aim of putting in place possible block chain solutions. To this end, the working group identifies the processes in place within the different cross-sectional teams for all levels and looks for possible problems and opportunities for simplification or possibilities for deletion. Next, the working group proposes a technology platform on which everyone can share their blockchain nodes and share their experience. This platform is set up by Smals. The specific processes analysed are the so-called events of life: birth, death, move, graduation, etc. The aim of this working group is to make recommendations for a vision of the usefulness and added value of blockchain technology in the government process. There are still several steps to be taken. The extent to which this technology is compatible with the GDPR remains to be investigated, as the information cannot be deleted. Future technology choices depend on the type of contracts one wants to use. Is the distributed public ledger really an option or should it be a private ledger? The analysis of the working group will also provide a clearer picture of possible legislative changes and the extent of the impact on government back-office processes. Various initiatives and experiences developed at the various levels of government are shared by the experts in the working group. It is up to us to understand and translate blockchain technology, so that the discussion and learning process will accelerate and the applications become clear faster. Given the scope of the task carried out by the working group, the limited maturity of the many potential suppliers in the market and the many outstanding questions, it is not clear today to define a time limit for operational implementation in the context of the federal government. As Mrs Lijnen said, this was already discussed during the discussion of the policy paper. The preliminary analysis is that the blockchain is not yet the mature technology that it might already be in the eyes of some. The short-term applications may be in niches, but it is an interesting and important technology for the government to experiment with already, because it is likely to have a very important impact in five to ten years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is indeed important that the public authorities take up the matter. Even if today the use and operation in question are rather a niche phenomenon, it is necessary to prepare for it, in order to avoid the return of a situation where we should run after an evolution or even after an ongoing revolution. Instead, we should take the lead and be proactive. The initiative of the working group is interesting and we will follow its development as it progresses. As politicians, we must be very careful about this, which we will therefore continue to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u5	Mr President, Minister, as we have said before in committee, it is incredibly important to monitor technology closely. You do. We are very much looking forward to the results of the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Devin is a little ill, I propose that he be given priority in asking his three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u7	Mr. President, you're good! Besides, often the president is good. It's better to think about it. Deputy Prime Minister, we recently learned from the press that bpost has closed the Combo home shopping web platform. Launched in 2014, this platform allowed the inhabitants of the center of the country (Brussels, the two Brabant, most of the province of Antwerp and East Flanders) to order their shopping online at different shops and to be delivered at home. The list included large distributors such as Carrefour, Cora, Wink and smaller retailers such as La Boucherie, eFarmz, Yapluka... Minister, can you give us more information on this removal of bpost from the Combo experience? What are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u8	Mr President, Mr Devin, in fact, bpost has put an end to his Combo pilot project but remains present on the market for home deliveries of food products, as a logistics partner. The website "Combo by bpost" has been replaced by a new offer developed on the basis of the experience accumulated since the beginning of Combo. The difference between Combo and this new offer is that customer orders from different suppliers are no longer consolidated into one delivery. We moved on to individual deliveries from each store's webshop. Thus, bpost presents its services as a logistics partner that organizes live delivery of home shopping using insulated boxes that allow the transport of dry, frozen or fresh food. Experience has shown that the consumer is not yet committed to consolidation, which has been seen as an additional and too complicated step. The offer has therefore been adapted to better meet current market expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u9	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, which encourages me to ask you a second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u10	Minister, the SPF Economy recently pointed out in its 2016 barometer that 15% of Belgian households did not have the Internet and that more than 11% of Belgians between the ages of 16 and 74 had never used it. Nearly three in ten households point to a lack of skills to be able to use this connection. In addition, about 6,900 non-connected households do not have the Internet due to the lack of broadband in their neighbourhoods. According to the SPF Economy, 39 municipalities in Wallonia do not benefit from rapid broadband access. Among these "white areas" are Evelette, Couthin, Dene, Gibecq, Bende, Thieulain, Celles and Seraing-le-Château. In these communes, even if they are connected to the Internet, the inhabitants just manage to send an e-mail. Last November, I asked you about the high-speed internet connection of homes in the Walloon Region. You said that a "white areas" action plan was being drawn up. It would eventually connect municipalities that do not have access to high speed broadband. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, has the White Zone Action Plan entered into force? What are the first conclusions? What is the next step in your action plan? Are other actions planned? Or do they come out exclusively to the private sector? Finally, you informed us that pilot experiments are being carried out in small municipalities, but what is being done to improve the network coverage of the larger municipalities also affected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u11	Thank you, Mr Devin. Your question is indeed interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u12	Mr President, this is often the case, but not always! Mr Devin, our approach to solving the problem of "white areas" is broken down into several stages. First of all, it is necessary to have a precise view of its scope, by means of a complete mapping, accessible on the IBPT website. Secondly, it is important to take all the necessary initiatives in accordance with the European legislative framework, with a view to stimulating investment in the affected areas. To do this, we need to develop a regulatory environment conducive to investment. In its analysis of broadband markets released last July, the IBPT proposed a reduction in regulation. At the same time, it is important to highlight and encourage other initiatives. For example, last year the Proximus operator tested a technology offering more flow to the inhabitants of Frasnes-lez-Anvaing. He recently announced the deployment of this solution throughout the country. Finally, there is a need to coordinate and facilitate initiatives in order to enable the municipalities concerned to benefit, if necessary, from funds to extend broadband. The European Commission has launched, among other things, a campaign to promote Wi-Fi connectivity, with a budget of €120 million covering the period 2017-2019. In addition, I am working with Minister Jeholet to develop actions to address the "white areas" issue. We will draw up a list of concrete actions to be undertaken in the coming months. The measures to be taken for the white areas will concern municipalities and towns where there are problems of coverage as well as those of larger size.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u13	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u14	Deputy Prime Minister, recently, the IBPT carried out an intensive analysis of the fixed telecom market. As a result, the IBPT concluded that the retail markets for high-speed Internet and television broadcasting remain characterised by competitive weaknesses. Indeed, the Institute demonstrates that the Belgian fixed telecommunications market (TV, internet) is characterized by a duopoly composed of Proximus and cable operators (Telenet, Voo), a situation which leads these players to increase regularly prices already far higher than those of our neighbours. I know the response of the CEO of Proximus, who tells us that there are also other services and a completely different coverage than in neighbouring countries. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what short- and medium-term measures do you intend to put in place to address the competitive shortcomings of the fixed telecom market? Is there an opening to competition from Proximus' fibre optic network?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u15	Dear colleague, the IBPT has found that there is a significant power position and has proposed to impose differences in regulatory obligations on powerful operators. Access to the network is the basic measure of regulation. Given the impossibility of duplicating existing infrastructures, new entrants must be able to use the networks of historical operators. Other obligations such as non-discrimination, transparency and price control of wholesale services are necessary to make the obligation of access effective. With regard to wholesale price control, the IBPT proposes the following measures: firstly, an obligation to provide guidance on costs for wholesale measures on networks and, secondly, an obligation to charge fair rates for wholesale services on fibre and cable. In this case, there may be a reasonable margin between product costs and wholesale prices. The IBPT considers it necessary that the fibre optic network which Proximus has started to deploy should also be open to competition, since this network is intended to replace the Proximus copper network which has a dominant position on the market in the long term. The IBPT envisages several options in this regard: - an obligation of passive access to fibre which allows the alternative operator to use its own electronic equipment on the fibre optic infrastructure wherever it is deployed; - an obligation of passive access to fibre only where at least one operator shows an interest in such access; - either, no passive fibre access obligation but only an active or virtual access obligation. A public consultation which concluded on 29 September 2017 will allow the IBPT to gather the views of the operators on the various options.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u16	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for all his replies. For my part, I'm still interested in them. Mr President, thank you for your traditional and always appreciated courtesy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u17	Minister, I am reminded that several Post Points have recently closed their doors in Wallonia. In my commune, a Post Point had been opened where the postal office had been closed due to the fact that it was no longer protected by the ten-kilometre rule. Two years later, the operators gave their names. The reasons given by the operators who stop the Point Poste are the conditions imposed by bpost, draconian and low-paying conditions creating an imbalance between the two parties. Persons who open a Post Point must undergo compulsory training, must contract insurance, must comply with certain opening hours, must assume responsibility in case of error. In addition, compensation is not attractive in terms of the additional work and the investments requested. According to some traders – who have abandoned the Post Point – when there are errors attributable to bpost, they are the ones who have to suffer the bad mood of customers. Conditions are low-paying and traders do not necessarily want to embark on this path. This can therefore endanger public service in rural communities. This is still a problem. Localities in special geographical situations, few across the country, find themselves without any postal service within an acceptable radius. The Act of 21 March 1991 provides that at least 95 per cent of the population shall have access to a postal service point offering the basic range within a road distance of not more than 5 km, and at least 98 per cent of the population shall have access to such a postal service point within a road distance of not more than 10 km. Minister, is this provision being respected today? How many Post Points have been opened? What are the coverage rates for the different areas served? What would happen if this obligation were not met? With regard to the conditions imposed on traders managing a Point Poste, what are the contractual constraints? Do they differ from one Post Office to another? In return, what are the commitments made by bpost to traders? Do you confirm the closure of certain Post Points in recent years? What are the reasons? How do you plan to compensate for these closures to maintain a quality and accessible service to citizens? In other words, specifically, the smaller a village, the less attractive the remuneration is, because it is essentially related to the number of operations. If there are few inhabitants, there are fewer operations and the minimum is not reached for the merchant who makes the effort to accomplish this mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u18	Mr Delizée, bpost largely complies with Article 12.1 of the Sixth Management Contract as regards the territorial coverage of the inhabitants. As of September 30, 2017, the population coverage rate was 96.6% for the 5 km radius by road and more than 99% for the 10 km radius. This coverage rate is not measured at the regional level. bpost has never fallen below these coverage rates. I can give you the tables concerning the number of points of service and the breakdown by Region. Contracts between bpost and its partners are part of the company's confidential information. The content of these contracts is therefore not disclosed. Between January 2015 and the end of September 2017, there were 93 postal point closures. During the same period, there were 80 Post Points openings. The coverage rate at 5 km remained relatively stable. It was 96.5% at the end of 2014 and 96.6% at the end of September 2017. This evolution is the result of the fact that bpost continues to optimize the networking of its point of sale network in order to best serve its customers. The reasons for collaboration with partners are multiple: end of business, bankruptcy, renunciation by the partner, end of collaboration on the bpost initiative due to quality or financial problems, etc. As regards a possible increase in fixed remuneration for rural posts, the rules of public procurement concerning remuneration conditions must be non-discriminatory and therefore the same for all partners, without distinction. Article 12.1 of the management contract stipulates that any proposed modification which may result in the abolition of a postal service point more than 5 km away from the nearest postal service point shall be submitted by bpost to the local authority concerned for consultation. In the event that such consultation does not take place within one month, bpost will be free to modify its retail network. In the concrete case of Viroinval – where you are a mayor – the closing of the Point Poste de Oignies-en-Thiérache was not a decision of bpost but a decision of the partner. bpost obviously agrees to replace this Post Point. In the event that a trading partner cannot be found, bpost is prepared to consider any partnership solution outside the usual Post Points framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'll look at the numbers carefully. You confirm that there are closures. Obviously, when there are closures, we're looking for openings. The aim is to ensure optimal coverage of the entire territory, including areas with low population density. It is important, in these cases, to have a consultation with the local authorities. On the conditions, I understand that there are non-discrimination rules and public procurement rules. The problem is that depending on the number of inhabitants, the number of operations necessarily varies. In some cases, it falls below a threshold of financial attractiveness. I do not know whether such a rule can be provided for in a public procurement. It is not discriminatory to set rules according to the population, it simply responds to different situations. I hear bpost is open to a partnership that goes beyond the usual framework to find a specific solution. The office in question is part of the percentage of postal offices abolished in these locations. This is where we are looking for a concrete solution. I hope that the dialogue with the bpost authorities will succeed, even if the solution is more original than elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u20	We haven't heard from Mrs. Jadin. I suggest that Mr. Delizée ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u21	Mr. President, thank you. I shall begin by correcting the title of the question. It is necessary to block in the title "in the new postal law"; there is indeed no link. It was a mistake that escaped me when the question was tabled. So I don't have any connection with the postal law. I have already asked the minister about this wish in the past. I am an elected representative of rural areas and I believe that the rule of one postal service point per municipality should be maintained. This rule dates back to the 1991 Act. In the current management contract, there is no difficulty. However, I am more concerned about the future management contract between the state and bpost. My main question is whether this rule will be maintained in the future management contract. In terms of timing, the fifth management contract expires in 2018. Can you confirm? I therefore look forward to the sixth management contract, as it is essential in my view not to further weaken the public service and its tasks in regions with less population density. I am thinking of the principle of equality, universality, accessibility, continuity and efficiency. I confess that I have concerns because if the future management contract does not provide for the maintenance of an office per commune and provides for a mesh with a ten-kilometre rule, the geographical situation, particularly in Wallonia, will ensure that offices will be closed and communes will be found without any postal office. I hope you'll reassure me about the future management contract, Minister. Will it maintain this rule of one office per commune in order to ensure full territorial coverage of the territory, with the same rules, namely the 95 per cent for the distance of five kilometres and the 98 per cent for the distance of ten kilometres?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u22	The bill does not change these provisions on the maintenance, with a view to ensuring the territorial and social cohesion of a community network as described in section 141a of the Act (number of post offices, etc.).). The specific provisions concerning the bpost retail network of the sixth management contract, namely Articles 10 and 12, also remain unchanged. To be very clear, in the next bpost management contract, the obligation of one office per commune will be maintained, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u23	That's great, Minister. I just want to ask you again what calendar we're in. Would the sixth management contract start well on January 1, 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u24	I can confirm that, but I think it is within that time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u25	So again under this legislature, there will be a negotiation and you say that one office per commune will be maintained. So I have complete satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u26	Yes, it is. It is in fact in parallel with the new postal law that will be voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u27	Perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u28	Mr President, Minister, during the discussion on the general policy note and also during the debates on the postal law, we have come back to the future of bpost and your intentions in relation to bpost, which is still today a predominantly public company in its shareholding. I come back to the debate on Proximus, which has been revived by your colleague Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders. He stated in the newspaper L'Echo: "The debate must take place on the future of Proximus. Are the future of this business alliances with partners or total or partial resale, while also keeping an eye on dividends? The fundamental question is the same: in the world in which we live, does the state have a vocation to be the shareholder of these different actors with important means immobilized, while we need money to finance investments?" He again opened the debate around Proximus. Considerations are under way at the government level and we are looking for a debate, so that these decisions are not taken behind the scenes or only at the government level. As the law has been changed, we know that the government today has the possibility to privatize, both Proximus and bpost, via royal decree. Here I wanted to stress once again the need to discuss the future of each of our public companies, Proximus and bpost, in very different sectors - postal and telecommunications. This has never really been the case in the Infrastructure Committee. Mr Minister, do you commit yourself to a substantive debate on the future of our public companies, in particular bpost and Proximus, in the coming weeks or months, including hearings of all stakeholders? Finally, do you agree with Mr Reynders' remarks that it would be welcome to sell the shares held by the Belgian State in Proximus? If not, what is your position as the appropriate minister on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u29	Mr Vanden Burre, you are calling for a debate on the future of state interests in Proximus and bpost, but I would like to remind you that, since the reform of the law of 21 March 1991 approved by the House at the end of 2015, the King can resort - by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers - to operations which have the consequence of increasing the State's shareholding in the capital of an independent public company listed on the stock exchange under the mark of 50% plus one share. A public debate with hearings is therefore neither required nor desirable since, I repeat, it is a publicly traded company. With regard to the question of the appropriateness of the sale of State participation in Proximus, I repeat that going below the 51% threshold is neither a taboo nor a fixed idea for me. Each case must be examined according to an industrial and economic logic, the aim being to make the company as robust as possible, to guarantee the security of employees' employment and, finally, to confirm Proximus's economic role as a modern telecommunications company.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. I know that we have discussed the possibility of a reduction in the participation of the State by royal decree, now acted by the government. However, a discussion of the future of Proximus and bpost, which are flowers of their respective sectors, seems to us to be quite relevant. I find it a pity that it cannot be considered in this parliamentary committee. And I regret it all the more because today this issue is not at the heart of the news. This is not like what happened at the time of the negotiations between PostNL and bpost. In the latter case, the listing of the two groups had given rise to other requirements. The present case is quite different, in particular because the constraints differ. We will therefore reiterate this request for a debate on your opinion. However, it seems to me essential to be able to set a course and direction for these two companies. In any case, we will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u31	Mr President, Minister, today the factors distribute parcels at the same time as the mail, but only the "small" parcels. A second round, by van, is scheduled later in the day for larger packages. bpost now wants the mail distributor to take care of the biggest parcels as well. 70% of these packages would thus be integrated into the first tour of the day; the remaining 30% will be entrusted to specialized offices, called "Parcel Hubs". Consequence of the measure: the setting up of hybrid deposits, where bpost employees and private workers will work side by side. Obviously, this measure raises questions in terms of working conditions for factors. In fact, trade unions have offended themselves, fearing a deterioration of conditions for bpost workers, "to the benefit" of a more precarious workforce of self-employed. At this stage, I would like to ask you the following questions: 1. What guarantees does bpost provide to its factors, whose workload will thus increase? 2. Do you not fear a deterioration in the working conditions of factors and a situation of inequality between bpost employees and private employees? 3. Given that larger parcels are expected to be delivered, does this new system mean that all factors will now have a van at their disposal? Will the itinerary of the tours be the same? 4. Finally, what exactly is going to consist of the Parcel Hubs we're talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u32	Dear colleague, the increase in the volume of packages on tours compensates for the decrease in mail and helps to maintain the level of employment. Due to the constant decline in conventional mail, it was decided to include as many packages as possible in regular factor tours. The factor that will distribute the packages at the same time as its mail will not carry the heaviest or very large packages; these will be distributed by the carl centers. The working conditions in terms of activity remain unchanged, both for the distribution network factor and for the agent working in a central office. Currently, two-thirds of the tours are already carried out by van factors. For tours carried out with another means of locomotion (bicycle or moped), part of these turns into van tours to deliver the largest parcels. The other party will retain its current means of locomotion, if this is the most effective solution. The route of the tours is calculated in particular according to the type of vehicle. It is therefore possible to change the route so that it is always feasible and in accordance with the Road Traffic Code. The carl centers are bpost sites that specialize in package distribution. To the extent possible, they are located in a building where other activities of the bpost group also take place. In the long run, the packages that will be processed by the carl centers are, first, those that cannot be integrated into a mail distribution tour and then, the heavy and bulky packages of all tours. The activities of a carl center consist of the traditional activities of sorting and distribution of packages. They take place from Monday to Friday, starting around 9 a.m. and ending around 7 p.m. or 8 p.m. The number and route of the tours are not fixed because they are created daily on the basis of the volume of the day. Staff working in the centres are made up of factors transferred on a voluntary basis or recruited for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for this detailed answer that I will analyze. I will probably come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u34	Mr.President, Minister, on Monday, June 20, 2016, or more than a year ago, bpost launched its new truncated service, an application that allows anyone to improvise delivery of parcels. A few months later, on 14 July, to be precise, I asked you several questions about this. You then told me that bringr was a complementary offer to existing bpost services. You added that "bpost management has ensured that the launch of the collaborative platform for the shipment of goods will have no negative impact on the employment, salary or status of employees within the company". You also added that "taking into account the short period of operation of the platform, a profile of the delivery agents is not yet established. The decision whether or not to continue this project will be made on the basis of operational feasibility and sufficient demand on the market." Minister, has there been an evaluation not only of the objectives but also of the evolution of employment, wages and the status of bpost employees since the appearance of twig? Was there any particular influence on traditional bpost activities with the arrival of twig? Is there an analysis of the typical profile of the brindgr deliverer by specific category? How was the "operational feasibility" of the brindgr application evaluated by bpost? Does bpost wish to continue the adventure with this platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u35	Mr Vanden Burre, the appearance of brilliance did not have a negative impact on the employment, wages or status of employees, or on traditional bpost activities. Given the diversity of the group, no standard delivery profile can be established. Detailed data on the evaluation of initial experiences with this application are part of the company's confidential information and are therefore not disclosed. As part of its innovation strategy, bpost will continue to research and introduce innovative applications such as bringr to improve both the offer of partners (e-commerce) and the comfort of their customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u36	Minister, I understand that there is no particular impact on traditional activities or employment. In my view, it would be interesting to carry out an evaluation of the project from time to time. I will therefore come back to the matter next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u37	Mr. President, thank you. There were indeed two questions. You have already responded to the first in the discussion on the policy note concerning the boards of directors on which the law is effectively respected with regard to bpost and Proximus. At least one third of each genus is present. You then seemed to agree with me that, at the level of management, it was necessary to develop journeys within companies in order to reach the same proportions. This is particularly true of the representation of women, who are known to be under-represented in economic circles and large companies. Are action plans implemented at bpost and Proximus to move in this direction? Would you like to see specific measures implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u38	The bpost management committee is currently no longer composed of female members. Its top management includes 21% women. This top management includes senior executive and top executive functions, which are immediately under the management committee. Given the logistics sector in which the company operates, these are rather encouraging figures that are growing. bpost launched a gender mainstreaming reflection which involved a broad diagnosis involving women in the company and which was followed by the implementation of actions such as the progressive introduction of the possibility of working at home, the transparency of HR processes, the creation of a network of women managers conducting awareness-raising actions, the implementation of a costed reporting. The reflection continues mainly through the cultural change programme under way in the company. The theme "diversity and inclusion" is part of the key behaviours expected of senior management. Diversity, in the broad sense, and the dimension of "beis unconscious" are points that the company wishes to integrate into everything related to leadership. As far as Proximus is concerned, let me first correct the figures you mention. Indeed, the Proximus Management Committee consists of a total of eight members, two women and six men, not eight men. So 25 per cent of the members are women. It should be noted that the latter two occupy the most important positions in the company, that of Delegated Administrator and Financial Director. In addition, at Proximus, a large number of women hold leadership positions. Examples include the Secretary General, the Director in charge of the tax department, the Director in charge of remuneration and profits, the Director in charge of communication, the Director in charge of investor relations and the Director in charge of wholesale operations. Recruitment of female staff at this level has recently been carried out. Promotions have taken place in the fields of information technology, finance, etc. Finally, in 2016-17, Proximus had about 30% of women in advanced leadership programs, which means that the company has more and more women ready to take on senior management roles. In conclusion, Proximus seems to me to ensure a good gender balance within the company, as it is convinced that mixed leadership influences performance in a positive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u39	I'm glad to hear your answer, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u40	I was going to start with your conclusion. I fully agree with you on this last phase: mixed leadership, at all levels (gender, diversity, although we speak here more specifically of gender), is very important regardless of the organization, whether public or private. My question was about the public enterprises that you are the minister responsible for. Indeed, it is clear that bpost has an effort to make with regard to its current steering committee. You described the company's action plan. It is essential to give tools and design paths to break some of the glass ceiling that we talk about regularly, and which affects women in the business world. It is also a fundamental cultural change, a fortiori in industries that historically have less female participation. This cultural factor must be changed. Proximus offers visible functions to women. It's very good and I didn't escape it. However, this must be sustainable and structural. I will read very carefully the details of the routes described within these two companies. Once again, public enterprises must be exemplary in this area to play a leadership role, at the cultural and societal levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u41	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, a young Palestinian asylum seeker has recently been refused twice the opening of a current account with a bank bpost agency in Ixelles. This information was then relayed by the newspaper La Capitale. It is my colleague, Catherine Morenville, communal councillor Ecolo in Saint-Gilles and also tutor of the young man, who informs us that in fact, the case was finally settled but following lengthy procedures. We are therefore happy to see the positive outcome of the situation, but without the will and determination of the guardian, the situation would probably have been different. Moreover, this is obviously not an isolated case. Other women guardians and refugees complain about this kind of discriminatory situation. It should also be noted that it is often very difficult to defend oneself for asylum seekers who still have little knowledge of our language and who ignore their rights. Yet owning a bank account is a very important right. Of course, it is a fundamental and universal tool to live decently in our territory. Minister, how many other cases of similar refusals have been observed at bpost? What are the exact reasons for refusing to grant a current account to asylum seekers? Does bpost intend to put in place concrete actions so that this kind of problematic situation does not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u42	Financial products that are available to clients in post offices are offered in collaboration with bpost Bank. It is an autonomous Belgian bank, a private limited company owned equally by bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis. bpost Bank shall not refuse the opening of an account to anyone if there is the presentation of valid documents required by the laws in force. The case you are referring to is due to an internal error. It has been able to be resolved positively for this asylum seeker who has since held a basic banking service with our agency. bpost and bpost Bank make every effort to ensure that the legislation is respected and ensure that the distribution network is aware of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u43	Minister, thank you for that answer. Indeed, there has been a positive outcome here. That's very good. As I said, we look forward to it. What is especially important is that it doesn't happen anymore. There is a need for more transparency in the event of refusal or for procedures to be much simpler. You're talking about a bpost bank employee awareness campaign on the subject. I think that's a good thing. You know how important it is to have a bank account when you want to settle down somewhere. I think that we must be able to facilitate procedures to this end as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u44	Mr. President, Minister, on November 18, the newspaper L'Avenir pointed to the gradual disappearance of ATMs outside the cities. It is a concern that my group and I have been sharing for a long time. I have already asked you several questions about this, notably on 26 January 2016. At that time, you told me that 22 communes did not have a DAB available 7 days a week, at least from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., 20 of which were in Wallonia and 2 in Flanders. bpost has since developed DABs in several municipalities that did not have them, notably in Herbeumont, Meix-devant-Virton, Érezée and Houyet. But according to L'Avenir, today there are three municipalities in Wallonia that are completely deprived of them: Tinlot, Lontzen and Beyne-Heusay, in the province of Liège. The challenge of a broad opening schedule remains, given the overall decrease in the number of ATMs from 8,754 to 8,613 between 2015 and 2016. Such a situation is a matter of concern because it may not ensure equality of public service among citizens. Such basic banking services must be available throughout the country. Moreover, this problem is part of the idea that some rural areas are the poor parents of our community, thereby developing the sense of abandonment of rural communities by public services, which we find quite unacceptable. bpost is obviously the best place to act since it has an obligation to be present in every municipality in the country. It can respond effectively to this weakness in the banking sector. Minister, do you confirm the figures put forward by L'Avenir on November 18th for the last communes that do not have a ticket distributor? What action plan intends to set up bpost in the three municipalities that are completely devoid of DAB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u45	Mr Vanden Burre, L'Avenir's article confirms that financial institutions seem to have a tendency to withdraw from small municipalities. Hence the provisions contained in the sixth management contract concluded between the State and bpost, which provides in particular that the undertaking in question must ensure the presence of a ticket distributor in all municipalities where this service is not offered by another financial institution. For the time being, thirty-two municipalities are entering the conditions. The installation of a ticket distributor in the other three municipalities is planned: first in Lontzen in December 2017 or early 2018; in Soheit-Tinlot in early 2018; and in Beyne-Heusay, where the site study is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u46	Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. I welcome the development of an action plan to address this absence. This issue affects many of our fellow citizens. I am reassured that bpost reacts quickly, since I have heard that this initiative will be taken in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u47	Mr President, I apologise for the late arrival. I was still stuck in the Finance Committee, where we just approved the expenditure budget, including the budget for Minister De Croo. So that's good news for Minister De Croo. Mr Minister, following a recent evaluation of the information sheets on telecom contracts, the BIPT advises to dispose of them. It is said that the costs and workload for operators do not outweigh the extremely limited use made by consumers of the information sheets and that there is also a large overlap between the information sheets and the information provided through the tariff simulator. To be honest, I am not surprised that the information sheets are not much sought. Its format and legibility are not immediately so attractive that I would look at them myself. However, they had a purpose. The aim was to make it very easy to compare the core conditions and the core rates of different operators. One can indeed ask whether the costs of the sheets in their present form are not greater than the benefits. Nevertheless, the point remains that it must be possible to compare offers in a very easy way. The question then is whether the tariff simulator is attractive and user-friendly enough today. One gets a very long list of packages, while one is usually interested in just a few offers. Eventually one has to click again for each package for the details. The information sheets as a concept are not a lot stronger than they are today to really compare the core issues. Mr Minister, do you follow the advice of the BIPT to abolish the information sheets? Secondly, how do you view the announced European legislation on information sheets in this area? Thirdly, what initiatives can or should BIPT take to provide consumers with the necessary information in an accessible manner? What more can it do than just the tariff simulator with its complex calculation method?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u48	At European level, there is currently a discussion on the information sheets which have an impact on the Belgian telecoms law following the transposition of the European Directive. If the new Directive requires information sheets, it is better to maintain the current system of information sheets. After all, it is important to avoid that operators no longer have to provide the information sheets at some point, while they will have to produce information sheets in accordance with European legislation shortly afterwards, which will cost them twice. If the EU does not require the information sheets, then I intend to effectively dispose of the information sheets, given the large overlap between information sheets on the one hand and information offered through the tariff simulator on the other. By also providing the information from the tariff simulator in open data to third party websites, they can make the information on subscriptions available to consumers in a more accessible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, open data is key in the story. These data must be delivered to the BIPT by the operators today and one can also offer them to everyone in a structural way. An interim proposal is possible. I noticed a suggestion in this direction in the evaluation by the BIPT, namely opting for chips that are readable. They will not then be information sheets with silly tick boxes like today, but chips in a readable format, if necessary prepared by the BIPT itself. The BIPT already has the information today, because the operators pass it on to BIPT. This would be a very simple, clear comparison mechanism, without the fully customized tariff simulator. Such chips could generate the BIPT themselves and make them more attractive, for example with the operator's logo. That was also the comments of a number of operators. I therefore call on you to continue to opt for transparent, comparable information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u50	Mr President, Minister, to the written question No. 0337 of 15 December 2015 by our former colleague Sarah Claerhout, you replied that "bpost does not have a collection of art or moving heritage. No specific purchasing policy has been and is being pursued. There is therefore no inventory and there is no specific mention in the company's balance sheet. Valuable movable property of historical value were then housed in the postmuseum. That postmuseum was closed in 2002. After closure, the stamp collection and all objects and pieces related to it were transferred to the stamp printing works of Mechelen where they are in secure custody. The rest of the collection was transferred to the Royal Museums of Art and History through a donation." Meanwhile, it was announced that part of this collection will be sold through the Maison Williame auction house. The catalogue was published more than a month ago and the sale will take place on Saturday 16 December, so within two weeks. It is about a wager value of about one million euros. So it's a nice package. In the catalogue of Maison Williame we read the following: "In order to complete the collections, the postmuseum had received and purchased a rare collection of tastings and new stamps Leopold I. They came from an English auction titled The Finest Collection in The World of mint Belgium Epaulette and Medallion types, formerly in exceptional collections such as Caroly, Lee, Ferrari and De Cock. This ensemble was never completed. bpost has therefore decided that these exceptional pieces would be better able to continue their lives in private collections where they could finally come to their own and be exhibited as they should." Of course, it is questionable whether the development of a stamp collection is one of the core tasks of a public body, but I have questions about this. Firstly, how is the description in the catalogue of the purchases of Leopold I stamps consistent with your earlier reply that no specific purchase policy was implemented? Apparently, purchases were made, but perhaps they did not fit so much into a policy and this was more occasional. At what point did these and how did the purchases come under Bpost's orders? What was the purpose of it? Secondly, how do you assess the desirability of selling a unique collection? To what extent was priority given to agreements with the Belgian museums and governments to keep this collection in their domestic hands and to exhibit it here? Thirdly, what will happen to the proceeds of the sale? Fourthly, how did the choice of the auction house take place? Should this not be the subject of a public tender or at least a public communication? Why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u51	Mr Dedecker, bpost is indeed not in possession of a collection of art such as paintings or sculptures, or moving heritage, and there was no specific procurement policy around it either. The philatelic patrimony, which was housed in the Postmuseum and is now in the stamp printing shop in Mechelen, consists of stamps issued and printed by the company in Mechelen. The Postmuseum also had no systematic or targeted purchasing policy, although purchases were made. For example, the pieces we're talking about here were purchased in 1945. The fact that the ensemble was never completed is the best proof that there was no systematic purchasing policy. The sale only refers to the relevant ensemble. The whole of its own philatelic heritage remains intact and in possession of bpost. Indeed, the sale of that heritage would not be desirable. Bpost considered that the exceptional documents it holds in addition could be better evaluated as they are now not accessible to the public. The proceeds of the sale will come into the account of bpost and will be spent on the promotion and support of philatelic activities. A competitive procedure was organised for the selection of the auction house, whereby three specialised companies were commissioned to organise the sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Authentic seals, and especially when it comes to Leopold I, are, in my opinion, subject to moving heritage. Whether we like that heritage or not, it remains a moving heritage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u53	Mr President, Minister, in the meantime there is more news, with a new Proximus proposal on the rent that was charged to some customers for the rental of a mostly obsolete fixed device. My question is very brief. How many Proximus customers, who have so far paid for the rental of such an old aircraft, are covered by a social rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u54	Mr President, Minister, my question is quite similar to that of my colleague Dedecker. In Belgium, 150,000 people rent a landline phone in Proximus and some complain that they pay for a landline phone while they no longer use it. To clarify the situation, Proximus decided to send a letter to the people concerned and you also reacted with your colleague, Kris Peeters. You proposed an interview with Proximus leader Dominique Leroy. Minister, how do you assess the situation? What points and lines do you intend to discuss with the CEO of Proximus and Minister Peeters during the interview you announced? Do you intend to act to respond to the problematic situations of the injured customers? If so, on what basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u55	Two weeks ago, I met with my colleague Kris Peeters with the CEO of Proximus to get more details and see what can be done. There, the CEO clarified that part of the customers who prefer specific services to the purchase of a device and that a limited number of new customers are added each month. Proximus clearly mentions the rental of the device on the monthly invoice of the customers concerned. However, Proximus understands that customers with long-term contracts are no longer always aware of their choice, nor of the fact that the purchase of a device may prove to be a more advantageous solution for them. This is why Proximus proposes to terminate without charge to customers who wish to terminate their fixed phone rental contract. They can also keep the device and, if they wish, buy a new device at a promotional price (50% discount). If customers want to keep renting but are dissatisfied with their old aircraft, they can exchange their aircraft for a newer model and continue to rent at the same rate. Proximus is currently in the process of informing customers about this by means of a letter, which is attached to their invoice. As of 1 January 2018, no new leases will be concluded. As far as Mr Dedecker's question is concerned, Proximus tells me that at least it is not in a position to indicate how many customers out of the 150 000 who still rent a fixed telephone are also beneficiaries of the social tariff. The social tariff does not apply to the telephone, but only to the subscription and the telephone. The information is not available in the systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which, of course, confirms what has been communicated to the public today on how to deal with the problem. However, that was not a specific answer to the question I asked. I'm a little surprised that a digital company like Proximus, which increasingly puts itself on the market with digital solutions on top of their access story, their infrastructure story, would not be able to perform a simple query on their customers' billing data. That surprises me very much. I think that's a pretty weird answer. It's not about you, of course. It's about Proximus. I hope that you will show some assertiveness towards a company that cannot answer questions in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u57	Mr President, I believe it is important for Proximus to be able to offer this service to our citizens and for those who wish to have a fixed phone to know and also, in full transparency, to know how much they are paying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u58	Minister, in April 2016, I was already asking you about two pilot projects aimed at assigning new tasks to factors: in Roulers with the taking of pictures of town planning panels to verify compliance and in Ostend for surveys on the needs of elderly people registered with the CPAS. Moreover, in Antwerp, bpost trucks were equipped to carry out air quality measurements for the National Geographical Institute. It is also a question of running races of isolated or pre-carried people. At the time, you told me that there was not yet a final evaluation for Roulers. In Ostend, the evaluation was positive for all stakeholders. This is a direct collaboration between bpost and the municipalities, which is accompanied by the conclusion of a contract. Minister, a little more than a year later, has an evaluation of the pilot project in Roulers been made in terms of the satisfaction of citizens, the community and the bpost workers? Are there any other pilot projects under way or will they be launched in the near future? Still in this idea of working with the municipalities and CPAS who wish to do so to provide additional services and take advantage of the daily shift of the factor among all our fellow citizens. If so, what are these projects? Will this system be expanded or generalized by bpost? Will there be a proactive promotion to municipalities and CPAS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u59	The pilot project in Roulers was positively evaluated. For information, in this pilot project, the factors, taking a photo, provided evidence to the commune that the display of a town planning permit was done correctly. As a result, contracts were also concluded with other municipalities. This was the case, among others, in Blankenberge, Wervik, Asse, Antwerp, Tongres and Lovendegem. Other municipalities may also use bpost to perform this audit subject to remuneration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u60	Minister, thank you for this information. I also asked you if there were any other plans for other services. This is not in your answer. This is an important element in the global debate on the societal role of the factor, the frequency of factor passing. With the distribution of parcels in particular, other services with societal added value can be carried out by factors. We believe that this is an interesting avenue for diversification. We will continue to follow these developments carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking stock of the agenda. Since he had not heard from Mr Frédéric, his question No 21123 was deleted. The attached questions Nos 21252, 21365 and 22082 by Mr Geerts, Mr Foret and Mrs Poncelet are postponed. Question No 21287 by Mr Calomne is transformed into a written question. Question No 21448 by Mr Delannois is postponed. Question No 21621 by Mr Calomne is transformed into a written question. Question No 21781 by Mr Janssen is deleted. Question No 21803 by Mr Foret is transformed into a written question. Question No 21981 by Mr de Lamotte is deleted, as is Question No 22031 by Mrs Jadin. Question No 22062 by Mr Delannois is transformed into a written question. Mrs Lalieux makes it difficult to organise tomorrow's meeting for which the agenda is still likely to change. Since she was very busy, she had decided to turn her question No 22090 into a written question. His question No 22098 had no reason to be. It is a mistake and it is simply withdrawn. Question No 22120 by Mr Friart is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u62	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) regularly carries out network coverage surveys by the three main mobile operators, Base, Orange and Proximus. It appears that about 1% of the population is not covered by the 3G network and that this figure rises to 10% for the 4G network. The BeCover+ application goes further by allowing you to know the quality of these networks by zone, classifying them into five categories ranging from red to green. If these results are in themselves a good indication, they are not sufficient. Indeed, they only take account of internet throughput. The question of the overall quality of the network is also very important. It is enough to try to hold a telephone conversation from a remote rural area to find out. In France, Arcep recently posted a similar map with much more detailed results. City by city, street by street, and depending on whether you are in your car, outside or in a building, it is now possible to know the quality of mobile coverage. According to several criteria, four categories were created: very good coverage, good coverage, limited coverage and lack of coverage. From the 90-98% official coverage announced by the various operators, this means that only 48% to 60% of the very good coverage, according to the operators, allows to telephone in good conditions both indoors and outdoors. Minister, such information is of paramount importance to the consumer at a time when smartphones have assumed considerable importance in society. Whether it's to phone, text or surf the internet, the majority of citizens need strong coverage. Such cards would allow people to choose an operator by knowing the quality of their coverage. This would stimulate competition and investment in hedging. It is therefore possible to obtain such information on mobile coverage in Belgium. If so, can you act in one way or another in this direction? Minister, thank you and I apologize for my very long question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u63	Mr Flahaux, the mobile coverage cards that the IBPT has published to date indicate that around 99% of Belgian territory is covered by at least one 3G and 4G network. By way of construction, these maps are binary in nature as they merely indicate the availability of a basic cover. But the quality of service on a given point depends on several parameters such as the distance from the antenna, the quality of the mobile terminal, the presence of disturbances, the load of the network, being in a building, a breakdown, etc. In order to more accurately represent the experience of users, the IBPT has decided to publish within a few months cover cards with more complete information. In concrete terms, the cards will have to display three levels of quality. Instead of the blue dots currently displayed, the map will have three shades of blue corresponding to three levels of quality: basic quality, good quality and very good quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. She's totally responding to my request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u65	Mr. de Lamotte is saved by the gong, since he just entered as I was about to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u66	Mr President, the agenda indicates that the response will be from the Deputy Prime Minister for Employment and Consumer Affairs, responsible for external trade. The Chair: Yes, that's weird!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u67	Mr President, I have no problem with questioning Minister De Croo. If he has prepared an answer, I am delighted!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u68	If the minister can answer you, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u70	That's because I didn't understand the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u71	You're right and you did well to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u72	Minister, according to a study carried out at the request of a Norwegian consumer protection association, it appears that several connected watches have significant safety deficiencies. Four watch models were analysed. Several facts have thus been established. First of all, out of two of the models, faults allowed a pirate potential to take control of geolocation applications and thus have access, in real time, to the location of the smartwatch holders, but also to their history, and to know their habits. In addition, two models equipped with an application allowing parents to geolocation their child watchholder have proved vulnerable to data manipulation allowing a potential hijacker to send an erroneous location. One of the watches was equipped with a listening device allowing parents or a foreigner with certain technical knowledge to monitor the holder's direct surroundings, although this feature was not even clearly mentioned. The conditions of use and the terms of confidentiality of these devices have generally proved to be very vague and sometimes even illegal or non-existent in the light of European standards. For example, only one model required the consent of users to collect private data and some did not even offer the possibility to delete user data or location history. Finally, data are often sent to server obscurs around the world without any information on how they are stored, secured or even used afterwards. On one of these models, the data transmitted is not even encrypted. Minister, as you can see, the problems are numerous and all the more worrying because these devices mainly target vulnerable people, i.e. children, and are likely to reassure parents about their safety when they can potentially increase the risk involved. Moreover, the most risky devices are the low cost models from China which, on the one hand, target the most disadvantaged audiences and, on the other hand, are often "rebranded" by European retailers under different names in different countries, making it very difficult to identify problematic models. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Have you ever taken measures to limit the potential risks to the Belgian population? If so, which ones? A letter was sent to the European Commission by the European Bureau of Consumer Unions (BEUC) on 18 October in order to make it aware of this problem. We have no doubt that the Commission will take the necessary action. However, given the seriousness of the potential consequences of the proliferation of these objects, would it not be appropriate to impose a moratorium on their sale in Belgium and to remove from circulation watches with major safety deficiencies before taking more specific measures? If you do not agree with me, how do you plan to react to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u73	Mr de Lamotte, the safety of equipment is essential to enable our citizens to use these new technologies with confidence. While other countries have decided to prohibit the marketing of this type of connected watch, nothing in the Belgian law on electronic communications explicitly prohibits its marketing. A study is under way to verify with the judicial authorities the possibility of basing itself on certain articles of the Criminal Code in order to prohibit the sale of such articles. A working group has proposed to the European Commission that new safety criteria related to the risk of hacking be added to the Radio Equipment Directive. These proposals are supported by Belgium. It may be added that the IBPT judicial police officers, as part of their monitoring mission, have already made numerous seizures of connected watches that do not comply with current legislation. If these seizures were not directly justified by the problem set out in the question, they may have already had the effect of limiting the import of equipment that could lead to the above-mentioned nuisances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-05-54-commissie-ic775x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that the problem is one of your concerns and that the IPBT judicial police officers have done a number of things. I am pleased that the European Commission is also dealing with the problem of hacking. It is necessary to continue the work because in terms of safety, it is problematic that children are not protected while their parents think they are. They are more likely than one would think with poor quality, unsecured and unencrypted watches. It may also be useful to alert parents and families about these potentially pirated watches.
