ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u1	Minister, Blue-bike is an initiative of SNCB, B-parking, De Lijn, FIETSENWORK and Tec. If we consult the website, there are currently 53 Blue bike locations in Belgium where you can automatically rent or borrow a bike. In my province there are 7 points: in Bruges, Ypres, Kortrijk, Ostend, Roeselare, Torhout and Waregem. In my hometown they made the necessary request at Blue-mobility nv. We are now in the process of drawing up an agreement, which will be submitted to the municipal council for approval. It would be the intention to open the Blue Bike Point this year. Blue-mobility nv provided the city administration with the financial data for providing a new Blue-bike point. A one-time investment of 7 000 euros excluding VAT for the e-locks is required and the city must provide bicycle storage and communication on the bicycle storage. In addition to that one-off investment, there is an annual cost for, among other things, the management and maintenance of the bicycles. For Poperinge, where eight bicycles would be parked, this means an annual maximum cost of 4 400 euros excluding VAT. Minister, can you confirm that there are 53 Blue bike locations in Belgium today? Are all 53 located at SNCB stations? Will enlargement be envisaged in the coming years? If so, how many points would be added and where? Is a market investigation carried out in advance in the municipalities applying? What about possible competition for the local self-employed? Will the installation of a Blue Bike Point provide financial support to the municipality by, for example, SNCB or De Lijn?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u2	SNCB informs me that there are currently 53 Blue bike locations, 49 of which are located at a SNCB station. Blue-mobility will expand its network in the coming years with at least 15 locations per year, both at line stops (PNRS) and at SNCB stations. No market research is carried out in the municipality from Blue-mobility. The Blue Bike user pays annual membership fees to make use of the system. It uses the system for the last kilometers of a mostly functional displacement. Tourist cycling tours are not the target group of the Blue bike service and can be offered by the retail trade. There are no conflicting situations in the current network. Existing SNCB sites were financed only by SNCB-B-Parking. Co-operation with local authorities is ongoing before starting a new location. There is an annual financial contribution to Blue-mobility for its operation and local promotion. Since 2015, B-Parking, a subsidiary of SNCB, has been the main shareholder of Blue-bike. B-Parking is responsible for the management and operation of passenger car parks, bicycles and motorcycles, the monitoring and management of bicycle points, the monitoring of bicycle parts, the study, the follow-up and/or management of mobility and intermobility projects at the stations and the operation of parking facilities, through central management and according to SNCB's strategy. In this way efficient customer management and follow-up are possible, there is only one point of contact for the operation of all parkings in the stations and the revenues of car parking contribute to the qualitative operation of the two-wheeler parkings, for bicycles, mopeds and motocyclists. The other shareholders are De Lijn, FIETSENWERK and SRWT.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u4	Madam President, Minister, a year ago your predecessor gave an overview of the works that SNCB is planning at some stations in the Westhoek. For 2017, the extension of the parking at Poperinge station was announced, where 48 additional parking spaces would be created. It is rumored, however, that enlargement would not continue. Minister, can you confirm that the announced parking with 48 places will be available in 2017? Secondly, what other works are in the pipeline in and at stations in the Westhoek up to 2020? Can you give me a timing, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, there is indeed an evolution between the answer I gave you in March 2016 and what I can tell you now. The current proposal for a multi-annual investment plan takes account of the new budgetary thresholds, which are lower than before. This means that only part of the projects are included in the proposal for a multi-annual investment plan 2017-2020. It is premature to go into detail on the projects until the negotiations have been concluded. For Poperinge, the current proposal for a multi-annual investment plan 2017-2020 indeed does not envisage an extension of the parking. During the past period several works have already been carried out in Ypres, such as the construction of a new car park, the reconstruction of the existing car park and the reconstruction of the railway station square in collaboration with the city. In the current proposal for a multi-annual investment plan, no works are planned for 2020. A new underpass was built in Veurne during the past period. Other projects are still under negotiation. Work on the surroundings and the station building has already been done in Diksmuide. Other projects are still under negotiation. In Kortemarke, the staircase and bicycle storage have been renewed and a new car park has been built. Other projects are still under negotiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u7	Question No 16991 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u8	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you again about the condition of the Wavre station and its surroundings. It seems, according to the communal authorities, that promises were made to the municipality of Wavre some time ago. Unfortunately, however, these promises of development have not been implemented. A motion was unanimously adopted at the Communal Council in October to reiterate a new request to SNCB for the necessary work to be carried out on the outskirts of Wavre station. These include the cleaning of the underground tunnel, the replacement of broken glazing, the cleaning of tags and the restoration of toilets that appear to be permanently closed. Minister, several requests to refurbish the approaches to Wavre Station have already been made to SNCB. I recall that the first applications were made in February 2015. Can you tell me whether the redevelopment of the Wavre station is on the agenda and, if so, what budget will be allocated to it? If work is already planned, can you give me an indicative date for the start of work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the SNCB tells me that it ensures that it reacts quickly to acts of vandalism, and that it sometimes has to take transitional measures such as, for example, the placement of panels pending the replacement of broken windows. The Wavre station, whose infrastructure is not new, is the victim of increased vandalism: incivilities, broken windows, tags, etc. Rehabilitation interventions were programmed and carried out, according to SNCB. The constantly vandalized sales automation will be moved, to allow for better social control. In the area of sanitary facilities, access to the toilet can be made during the opening hours of the station, by asking the key at the counter. In order to address these recurring problems of insecurity and incivility in the longer term, a study is under way to place surveillance cameras.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. They surprise me, because nothing has been done about work. If you tell us that emergency work has been done, I can confirm that no. I do it regularly. The work was not carried out. I therefore do not understand your answer, which is very incomplete. I must admit that I will not fail to continue to put pressure on this. Cameras can be a lead. I think the municipality is working on the placement of cameras in various places. Indeed, the file of the station and its plateau remains problematic. I support the study and the proposal to set up cameras.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u11	Minister, I would like to ask you about the mail I sent you on February 2 following an incident at a crossing on Wavre territory. We came close to the disaster, because a car had entered the crossing because of traffic jams and the train stopped three centimetres from the car, in which a child was present. In this letter, I asked you to organize an emergency meeting between all the actors involved in securing the level crossings in the territory of Wavre (i.e. yourself, Infrabel, the Walloon Minister of Mobility and the Wavrian communal authorities). The meeting should have provided an opportunity to take stock of the situation with regard to the security of level crossings and also to see to what extent it would be possible to enhance safety at the vicinity of these crossings. Minister, I learned from the press that a meeting with the authorities of the city of Wavre had taken place on 15 February. Can you give me the debriefing of this meeting? Have you mentioned the idea of holding a meeting with all the relevant actors as I suggested in the above-mentioned letter? If so, can you tell me more?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u12	Dear colleague, Infrabel tells me that I did participate in a meeting with the authorities of the city of Wavre following an incident on 1 February, the reasons for which were clearly identified, without calling Infrabel into question. On the contrary, SNCB and Infrabel staff responded promptly in order to avoid an incident following the parking of a vehicle on the tracks due to road congestion. According to Infrabel, this meeting was an opportunity to engage in a constructive dialogue on safety around the seven Wavre level crossings. Infrabel tells me that it is fully available to continue the discussions on this subject and to study the various works to be carried out. As far as I am concerned, I did have a meeting in my office to take stock of this. It focused on the explanation of the various files studied so far and the chronology of the elements. With regard to the Basse-Wavre crossing, its replacement or deletion is not envisaged in the short term. On the other hand, work is being considered on other level crossings. We will return to the subject when Infrabel and the Walloon Region have made their choice. As these are in part regional roads, technical choices must be made as to where the roads should pass. This project is being finalized and will be ready within two or three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u13	I thank the Minister for his answers. Indeed, Infrabel was not responsible at all for the incident. I also greet, as you have just done, the courage of the employees of Infrabel who were present on the spot and who helped to avoid the accident because they were really the ones who were able to alert the conductor of the train. I think, indeed, that it is necessary to sit all the actors around the table. You are telling me that meetings are taking place with the Walloon Region and the Directorate-General for Roads. It is necessary, not for the Lower Wavre axis, which is a communal road, but for the other roads where we are on more important routes. I think we must try to find solutions for both safety and mobility in the centre of Wavre. I am pleased to hear that proposals will be made within two to three months. I'll be sure to ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u14	Madam President, Minister, a few months ago, the facade of the Leuze-en-Hainaut railway station was the subject of much-needed revitalization work. The problem is that the work was stopped prematurely and remains unfinished. This means very concretely that half a facade has been repainted and the other half is still defracated. This aesthetic asymmetry has been a problem for more than seven months. According to SNCB's spokesperson, the work had to be interrupted in June 2016 due to weather conditions and the workers' staff had, in the meantime, been redirected to other construction sites. Minister, I think that this project should be a priority for the SNCB given the baffled character of the façade. It's been going on for too long. When are you going to do what is necessary to remedy this situation? Can I have a specific schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u15	Mr Delannois, we will not spend our Easter holidays, neither you nor I, taking our brushes to finish painting this facade. There are 560 stations, I do not know the situation of all the stations and I question SNCB, a self-employed company. SNCB informs me that the painting of the missing part will be completed by May 15. The finish layer, for a general harmonious appearance, will then be applied on all facades by the end of June 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u16	Minister, thank you. These are very concrete answers to a problem that is equally so. I'm not a great technician, but don't hang around too much. Otherwise, you should start all over again. The schedule you're giving me is quite correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I regularly ask you in this committee about the issue of accessibility to train transport for people with reduced mobility (PMR). As early as June 2016, I asked you about the measure of reducing the waiting time for reservations for PMRs wishing to take the train. Indeed, in some fifteen stations in Belgium, this delay will be reduced from 24 hours to 3 hours, which is a good thing. Unfortunately, the station in Tournai is not included in the list of stations held while apparently there would be staff available with a van at the Ath station located a few minutes from Tournai. Minister, the Tournai station is an important crossing point for many commuters who want to transit along the Walloon dorsal to Brussels or Lille. It would therefore be unacceptable if the service provided to the PMRs within the station was not up to the level. What were the criteria for determining the stations in the country where the booking time for persons with reduced mobility will be reduced? Finally, is it your intention to allow PMRs using the train leaving Tournai to benefit from a booking time of 3 hours instead of 24 hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u18	Mr Delannois, the SNCB informs me that the selection of stations for the relaxation of the reservation measures for PMRs has been carried out on the basis of three criteria: the number of passengers travelling to the station, the number of requests for assistance and the permanent availability of staff at the station. SNCB points out to me that the application of the reduced booking time to 3 hours involves a relatively complex organization, particularly with regard to the personnel that must be present and available for the support of PMR passengers before the departure time of the first train of the morning and until after the arrival of the last train. At present, SNCB does not plan to extend the application of the reduced reservation period to the station in Tournai since it is not one of the first forty stations where the meeting of the three criteria gives rise to a priority order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. That said, you will understand that I am much less enthusiastic than I was in your previous answer. I will therefore analyse your answer, the attendance data and any cooperation with the Ath station before going back to you to ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u20	Minister, via social media, you called me misogyne on the pretext that I asked you to analyze the proposal to hire a "pipi madam" in the toilet at Tournai station, closed for a year and a half. I am convinced that this clumsy smoke serves only to avoid a real problem. However, it took me 50 years for someone else, a minister, to call me a misogynist, that is, as defined in the dictionary: "A man who does not love women, who hates them, who despises them, or who testifies to contempt or even hostility." In Tournai, where I'm known, your words made you laugh. That's it already! However, taking advantage of the open dictionary, I referred to the term "madam pipi". Minister, if you do the same thing as me, you can read that a Mrs. Pipi is "an employee, traditionally female, who is responsible for the proper operation and cleaning of toilets in public places". Returning to my proposal to send a contract agent Article 60, I asked Tournai's CPAS to calculate what this might cost SNCB. Given that these amounts may vary according to certain criteria such as age, family status, etc., I requested that this calculation be carried out taking into account all the criteria so that the proposed figure is the highest. In an e-mail, the CPAS tells me that if we take the highest salary, including vacation and exit expenses, on the basis of a 12-month commitment, the monthly cost for SNCB would be €494.83. Minister, given that the Tournai toilets are equipped with pursers, the money collected would also go back to SNCB. So here we are talking about peanuts. It only lacks the will to act and unlike you - it is not a reproach - I am from Tournai and I have the weakness to believe that I know my city. If I make this proposal to you, it is because I am convinced that it is an excellent solution and that it will help to reduce certain incivilities. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know your position. If my proposal does not meet your will, what do you intend to do to resolve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u21	Madam President, there are several issues that seem to be confusing between a state department company and an autonomous state company. We need to be clear: it is not the minister who will open and close the doors. I don't have an order to give to an attendant, a station chief or a station deputy chief. The shareholder state has delegates on the board of directors and there is a management contract that sets out a number of obligations. On the other hand, my colleague, I will still answer your question on the basis of the information that the SNCB has given me because it is more complex than what you want to present. SNCB informs me that the reopening of the sanitary facilities at the station in Tournai is not envisaged at the moment and that it is therefore not its intention to call on CPAS staff or to recruit staff for the operation of the sanitary facilities, whether in Tournai or at comparable stations. I can only repeat that SNCB has conducted consultations for the operation of sanitary facilities, which have given nothing, because the potential clientele is not sufficient. Only stations with a great tributary are interesting for dealers. If a management system with a staff member were to be put in place, there would still be a problem. How to ensure the safety of this attendant? Indeed, insecurity remains a delicate issue at the station of Tournai. The renovation of public sanitary facilities has been integrated into the modernisation of the railway station. Anti-vandal furniture has been installed. According to the photos I received, there were two rehabilitations. So it's problematic. After only a few weeks of entry into service, the repair bill amounted to €3,000: daily opening; replacement of bins, mirrors and PMR bars (persons with reduced mobility), etc. There is also the fact that, several times a day, the fire alarm was starting, as this space had become a real smoker of various substances. Therefore, it has become essential to seek the assistance of the police to evacuate individuals engaged in such consumption. Station staff are not in a position to manage such atypical behaviour. It is also appropriate that you know that the police have recommended that SNCB close the place. Finally, I am reminded that a statement of intent in terms of security...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u22	Minister, what police services are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u23	I don't know. It is a document from SNCB. Finally, I am reminded that a declaration of intent in terms of safety in and around the station has been signed between SNCB, the City of Tournai and the local police. Collaboration could therefore take shape in order to further secure the place, sharing responsibility for it. We may wish to consider that SNCB freely lends the premises to the City after a state of affairs. The latter is responsible for installing an attendant there or undertaking any repairs. If you are listened to, it is equivalent to what you yourself call peanuts. As things stand, SNCB therefore does not envisage reopening as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u24	Minister, before I reply, I'm going to do a little humor because you didn't make an allusion to the term "misogyne" that you attributed to me. I have a brother who wants to become a midwife, I guess it doesn't create a problem! My police commissioner told me that, lately, there was a woman who was the straw man of the sleep merchants. I guess I don't have to take it back! And my fire commander told me there was a woman who wanted to become a gypsy man. Should I ask him if he should now talk about a toad woman? [[laughter]] Minister, I don't laugh anymore when you talk to me about insecurity and the police, and I know the file well. Mrs Galant is no longer there, but you should know that she made the same statement as you at the beginning of her term and that she later realized that some were instrumentalizing her. Why? I don't know. Currently, the Railway Police is no longer in Tournai, she has gone to Mons. When Infrabel and the police are at the station, they leave on the Walloon dorsal and are therefore not very present on the spot. The only police present is the police in Tournai. When we do precise analyses, the station is, it is true, confronted with real incivilities, I do not deny it. This is not a place where nothing ever happens but the image is truncated: these incivilities take place only because there is no one! The day when there will be a presence - a female presence would be preferable - the problem will be solved by the minute! I asked the dog police, who are patrolling the station, if a lady in charge of toilet maintenance would be at any risk. The answer was clear: the day that there will be a physical presence in these toilets, there will be no more problems. The problems stem from the fact that there are no attendants in this place. Asking the City of Tournai to pay for this system seems exaggerated to me. Infrabel's police are never there, it's always the communal police who take care of it. And you say, if there's a problem, we have to pay to fix it. The station is brand new, and there is no toilet! And I'm not just talking about commuters, but also about the people who work in the station, especially women, for whom this situation is very embarrassing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u25	I understand that there are toilets reserved for staff. And don't forget that in Belgium there are 550 stations and that their toilets are managed in a uniform manner, according to categories of stations. There is no reason for us to place staff in some and not others. SNCB simply tells me that they can restore the toilets and place a cashier. But if there are still incidents, it will have to be noted. I don't know if there are cameras, I agree to look at the file to analyze the situation. However, a human presence is not possible because 400 of the 550 stations have no problems. And it is not because some of us have problems that we have to place an attendant there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u26	We'll talk about it at another time, but I can assure you that there are solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u27	Madam Chair, Minister, at the end of February, you said you were working on a minimum service bill at SNCB for June. A text on which you are working, without consultation with the unions. This project would be the result of an ultimatum that came to an end at the end of December, in the absence of an agreement actually reached between SNCB management and trade unions on a minimum service in the event of a strike. Staff will be asked to declare themselves fit to work or strike in advance. Minister, strikes are not popular. Yet they are the only weapon for workers to make their voices heard in the face of their employers or in the political world. The right to strike has been acquired from a high struggle and, in my view, cannot be called into question. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point: what do you mean in practice by "minimum service"? What would be the practical modalities? How could railway workers still fully exercise their right to strike in the context of a minimum service which would require the employment of 85% of the staff, or even in certain functions, including safety, up to 100%? What would happen if a worker wished to change his mind after declaring that he would work? How do you actually imagine managing the "volunteer" database and for what purposes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u28	Dear colleague, as I have already mentioned on several occasions, I wish, in my capacity as the responsible minister, to establish a legal basis for the continuity of service within the Belgian railways. I started this work after finding, at the end of 2016, despite the call for the conclusion of the ongoing consultation, that the companies could not come up with a practical formula in this field in consultation with the trade union organisations. The scheme will be designed in such a way as not to affect the right to strike, but also in such a way as to guarantee the right to mobility of workers, commuters and the right of railway workers to work if they have voluntarily committed themselves to it. I do not wish to anticipate the development of an appropriate legal regulation, which is still under discussion, by already disclosing concrete elements to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u29	Mr Minister, I thank you for these elements of the answer which, you will have no doubt, do not satisfy me at all. I hear that there is no consultation with the unions and I regret that. This will be a problematic issue in the weeks and months to come. With regard to the concept of minimum service, I have not heard you answer about how you intend to circumvent the difficulties that may arise. Indeed, a large percentage of the staff must be mobilised in order to ensure a safe service. By introducing this minimum service, in all likelihood, you are going to undermine the workers' right to strike and I have absolutely not heard you, even in general, explain how you intend to preserve this right by introducing this minimum service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u30	We'll come back, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u31	Colleagues, there are a lot of questions attached and there are still a lot of absentees. I see that Mr.Raskin has a question under agenda item 27.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u32	Madam President, Minister, it is no problem for me to postpone the questions. I made a deal with Mr Geerts' collaborator for my combined question No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After all, I have to leave, too. I would like to wait, but if my other two questions were asked, I would also like to ask the question about Leuven and leave. So I'd like to wait, but not until the end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u33	So you want to wait until Mr. Geerts arrives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I would now like to put my question. 17268. SNCB would like to create more than 12 200 new car parks by 2020 and also some 10 000 new bicycle sites. A further increase in parking capacity would also be invested in Limburg. I have three questions. First of all, which Limburg stations and stops will be able to count on additional parking spaces for motor vehicles and bicycles in the coming years? Secondly, how many parking spaces are we talking about? I would like to get the figures by station or stop, broken down by means of transport, i.e. car or bike. Thirdly, what amount will be allocated for this purpose? I would also like to get a split up by station or stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u35	Madam President, Mr Raskin, a consultation with Infrabel was launched following the adoption of a draft multi-annual investment plan by its Governing Board on 22 February 2017. At the end of the consultation, the Investment Cell will be organised between SNCB's and Infrabel's multi-annual investment plans. After these two phases, the multi-annual investment plans of both companies will be stabilised and it will be possible to specify which yards are effectively envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer, which, with all due respect, I am nothing for the time being. Of course, I know that this is in consultation and that there is a lot of talk about it. I hope, however, that I will be able to count on you to come up with a multiannual investment plan and to clarify it, not only for travellers but also for the regions that have been waiting a long time for a train that never arrives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u37	Mr Minister, I do not have a question this time about the bicycle fee for the speed pedals. After all, I assume that there will be a lot of work to be done and that will soon be done. This question is about the place on the road of the speed pedelecs. As is well known by the similarity with the moped class B we couldn't do otherwise, it was a question of Europe in the royal decree that entered into force on 1 October 2016, a hybrid system created, whereby the speed pedelec can be allowed on roads reserved for bicycles, provided that that is indicated by a sign. Shortly down the bend, but I think it might have been better if we had reversed the reasoning and allowed the speed pedelec anywhere where the bike is allowed, except where it is explicitly not allowed by marking a road sign. I think that would have made everything a little easier. Fietsberaad, an advisory body on cycling policy under the umbrella of the Flemish Association of Cities and Municipalities, has also issued an opinion on the location of speed pedelecs on the public road. Its starting point is that the speed pedelec is an active mobility form that increases the range of existing electric bicycles and can therefore make an important contribution to some of the societal challenges of our time, such as congestion, climate and health. For this reason, Bietsberaad also argues for a more thorough alignment with the classic bikes and slower electric bikes, the regular pedelecs, for example with regard to turning right in red for cyclists or with regard to admission in pedestrian zones and on mixed foot and bike paths marked with D9 or D10 signs. In short, it is a plea to make the speed pedelec more similar to the bike, as far as road space is concerned, than is the case today. Are you aware of the advice of Fietssberaad? Do you share the starting point of Fietsberaad that the speed pedelec is a very interesting form of mobility, which can provide an answer to the excessive pressure of car mobility in our country? Do you share the views of Fietsberaad on the following topics: opening right free by red for cyclists; allowing speed pedelecs on mixed foot and bike paths and allowing all speed pedelecs to catch up with cyclists in bicycle streets, which does not exist today strictly speaking? If so, will you take steps to do so? What is your opinion on the introduction of maximum speed on bicycle paths and why? It is a regional competence, but you can discuss it with your regional counterparts. Finally, has there been any consultation with the Regions on Fietssberaad's advice to arrive at a coherent vision? After consultation with the Regional Mobility Ministers, it would be good to have a clear vision of the location of the speed pedal in our traffic, because I have the impression that it is not there today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u38	Mr Van den Bergh, I am aware of the advice of Fietsberaad and share his point of departure that speed pedelec is an active form of mobility that increases the range of existing electric bicycles and can make an important contribution to some of the societal challenges of our time. I am thinking, among other things, of congestion, air quality and public health. The signs B22 and B23 apply only to cyclists. As I have also mentioned on several occasions in the reply to parliamentary questions on the subject, the amendment of the traffic rules has been carried out in broad consultation and with favourable advice from the regions. An extension of the scope of the signs B22 and B23 to the speed pedelecs was never really considered considering the maximum speed and acceleration capacity of speed pedelecs. On reserved roads for pedestrians and cyclists marked by D9 and/or D10 signs, speed pedelecs are indeed not allowed. These signs are used when there is not enough space for a full cycle path. Due to a potential conflict between speed pedelecs drivers and among other pedestrians and cyclists, it is not advisable to allow speed pedelecs. If the road managers consider that D9 or D10 signs should be used in places where speed pedals should also be allowed, it is sufficient to replace them with D7 signs. In this case, if there is no passable roadside or pavement, pedestrians may follow the cycle path and should give priority to cyclists and speed pedelecs. At the same time, speed pedelecs drivers should not endanger other road users on the bicycle path. I agree with Fietssberaad that the current regulations on catching up in speed pedelecs bike lanes are not very clear. During the work on the revision of the Road Code, the issue has already been discussed and the working group has considered that in cycling streets the overtaking of cyclists by speed pedals of all types is quite explicitly permitted. Although I am not competent to determine a speed limitation on bike paths, I am fond of the idea. However, it is up to the relevant regional ministers to take the initiative. As I have also mentioned on several occasions in reply to parliamentary questions on the subject, the amendment of the traffic rules has been carried out in broad consultation and with favourable advice from the regions. I am open to proposals to amend the traffic regulations on the basis of new insights and developments. At the moment, I'm not convinced there are any. Of course, I am always prepared to talk to the Regions about this, should that question be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. There are a number of defensive elements, in particular that since 1 October there has been a KB, with which you continue. I understand that somewhere. A consultation procedure was then concluded with the necessary opinions. But the sale and use of speed pedelecs have been accelerating ever since. In addition, if you extend the bicycle fee to speed pedals and I am really counting on that to be done quickly, then that will only be an additional lever for the wider use of those vehicles. Then we still have to take a closer look at the place on the road of the speed pedelecs. A number of points I have raised are certainly worth considering at the time when the road code as a whole is reviewed. Thanks to your KB, we have created the possibility to distinguish between speed pedelecs and mopeds. That is a good thing. We must now make full use of that to give the offensive the speed pedelecs more space on the road. Combined with a speed policy, i.e. through necessary consultation with the Regions, there would also be opportunities there. People are afraid that the speed pedelecs drive too fast and threaten the classic cyclists. If one combines this with speed limits, such as on the shared foot and bike paths, then it is possible to allow those speed pedelecs in those places. So I think there are still opportunities here. I've also worked out a bill. Maybe that could also be a source of inspiration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u40	Madam President, Minister, cancelled more than twenty years ago, the railway link between the French city of Valenciennes and the Belgian city of Mons has been the subject of several requests for restoration in order to allow Belgians and French residents residing in this cross-border area to move on either side of the border, without having to go up to Lille and Tournai or through Erquelinnes and Charleroi, to travel by train to Belgium, to Antwerp or France to the Hauts-de-France and the Paris basin, which is currently taking an additional day. This demand is reinforced by the need to facilitate the movement of people so that they can work on both sides of the border, without having to use means of road transport. Large companies, such as Toyota, large job providers, including for Belgians, could find more easily the profiles they lack in the implementation of their industrial processes, especially as we know how important unemployment is in Borinage. It would also facilitate access to the port of Antwerp for the goods of the companies of Valenciennois who are, for the moment, obliged to pass through Lille to go to Antwerp. France, in the framework of the contract Etat-Région des Hauts-de-France, decided to budget for the rehabilitation of this railway line with electrification and the handover of tracks on the section of nearly one kilometre which is lacking, on the French side since the tracks had been removed. To the extent that the multi-annual investment plan has not yet been agreed in Infrabel, the intercommunal IDEA, of which I am a member of the board of directors, claims to your services the reopening of this link in order to reinvigorate the economic development of the Hainaut-Centre. The chemicalist Yara, a fertilizer manufacturer in Tertre, would already like to circulate his tank cars there. As such, the reopening of rail freight on this line would dedensify the traffic of heavy goods vehicles on the motorway link between Valenciennes, Mons, Brussels and Antwerp. To the extent that all economic and political actors on both sides of the border are asking for this reconnexion, which France has already put on the table 15 million euros, Infrabel's will and its participation in the reopening of line 97 is now lacking. Minister, beyond the cost, can you tell us whether a study has defined the added value of this reopening economically, for the Hainaut Centre and beyond for Belgium? Could this reopening be economically viable for the Belgian rail network? Do you intend to support this project with Infrabel? Do you intend to solicit the large companies involved in this passenger and freight traffic so that they can participate financially in achieving this objective? Finally, do you consider this project to be part of the virtuous investment policy put in place to reinvigorate railway works? I'm putting in a flat that's gonna make you smile. If in May Marine Le Pen becomes president, we must not reopen this path!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u41	My colleague, it is a fact that Belgian rail is already making a major contribution to encouraging trade between France and Belgium. In addition to the high-speed line between Paris and Brussels, several border points connect the two countries by rail: the line 96 by Quévy, the line 130A via Erquelinnes, the line 165 via Athus, the line 94 via Froyennes or the line 75 via Mouscron. The political authorities of the Hauts-de-France have indeed contacted me about the reopening of the Mons-Valenciennes section to freight. The Board of Directors on February 20th gave its CEO a mandate to present and negotiate with the tutelage a draft business plan and an IPP. I'm talking about Infrabel. This project still needs to be amended and some of its funding needs to be clarified. A large number of projects will be analysed and arbitrated, including the reopening of the Valenciennes-Mons railway line. In the end, it will be the investment unit in which the Regions are represented that will objective the different priorities. I would like to conclude by reminding you that choosing is giving up. Therefore, retaining this project will mean rejecting others and vice versa. Everyone has to keep this obvious in mind. That is the way choices are made, that is how they have always been made, and that is how they will continue to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u42	Minister, I note the positive point of your answer, that on February 20, Infrabel's board of directors launched the file. You are right to put a flat on the financing. Choosing is giving up. This is why it would be interesting to establish a partnership, for example with Toyota, which employs several thousand workers in the Valenciennes region, including many Belgians. This would allow Toyota to save money because they have to go through Lille to Antwerp. I think this could be an opportunity. I'm also thinking of Tertre's firm, the Yara chemist. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u43	As Mr Geerts does not arrive, we come back, at the request of Mr Raskin, to agenda item 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u44	Prime Minister, it would appear from preliminary findings that the train accident at Leuven, which killed one person last month, is due to too high a speed. At least that's what the parquet confirmed. The driver would have switched at a speed of about 100 kilometers per hour, while there was a speed limitation of 40 kilometers per hour. That speed limitation is indicated by signals. I have some questions. Can you confirm the court's preliminary conclusions? In addition to the investigation of the parquet, the railway companies and the FPS Mobility are conducting an investigation into the circumstances in which the accident occurred. When can we expect the conclusions of these investigations? Could you give us some preliminary findings, Minister? Are the preliminary findings consistent with the public prosecutor's conclusions? The driver would not have seen the signal with the speed limit. A driver must take into account multiple signals when driving outside the Leuven station. That could lead to confusion. Is that a known problem? Is there significantly more signalling at the Leuven station than at other stations of similar size? Did the train driver have sufficient knowledge of the line? Had he ever drove the line before? Finally, can you confirm that the deployment of the ERTMS safety system is still on track? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u45	Président: Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u46	Indeed, the public prosecutor believes that excessive speed was the cause of the Leuven accident on 18 February last. The public prosecutor seized the details of the accident and SNCB did not have access to them. From the damage, SNCB can derive the probable speed. It's consistent with the public prosecutor's findings. Anyway, the investigations relating to this accident are still pending, including the investigation of the Railway Accident Investigation Body. The signaling to be observed is inevitably linked to the coincidence of lines 36, 36N, 139, 53 and 35, and of high-speed line 2, near the Leuven station. However, there is no greater complexity in signaling than in many other stations. As far as speed limitation is concerned, it is true that there is a non-compliance with a permanent speed limitation of 40 km/h which has been in place since 1 March 2012. This speed limitation is linked to the configuration of the railway infrastructure at the locations concerned. The driver of the train in question had from the departure on the platform to the site of the accident, more than 1.5 km further a total of 2 signals and a permanent speed sign to be observed. A memo lamp on board his carriage had to remind him of the speed limitation imposed. SNCB confirms to me that the driver had the necessary knowledge of the line and that the train had left the station of Leuven on time at 13:09. SNCB has no knowledge of derailment sensitivity of the Breaks MR 80. The reason why a train departs on the opposite track and returns on the normal track is due to the efforts to optimise the use of the platforms as far as possible, as well as to find the best way to travel. In order not to keep track 1 occupied at the station of Leuven for too long during the weekend, it was chosen to leave the train sometimes from track 7. The train then runs on line 36 on opposite tracks towards Brussels. If the train were to run on normal track, it would have to cross the lines 35 and/or 53, which would be annoying for traffic on these lines. During weekdays, however, there is no need for the train to leave from a railway other than rail 1 and therefore there is no need for the train to take part of the train on opposite tracks. The roll-out of ETCS on SNCB's rolling stock is indeed on track. The TBL1+ programme has been completed and, with regard to the installation of ETCS, 20% of the main lines, 1 264 kilometres, were already equipped with the ETCS system on 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u47	Mr Minister, I hear from you that, on the basis of the wreck, SNCB suspects that the speed of the aircraft was indeed too high and that the findings of the parquet might be correct in this respect. However, I also hear you say that the investigation is still ongoing. I have also noted that signalling in a place where several lines intersect and coincide is a fact, but on the other hand there is no greater complexity of signalling at that place in Leuven than at other stations. I would also like to thank you for the rest of your detailed explanation. However, in view of the ongoing investigation today, I am not going to go into that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u48	Mr Raskin, you are the only one present. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u49	Minister, the judicial investigation into the Buizingen train disaster was completed in September 2016. On the basis of the conclusions of that investigation, the Halle-Vilvoorde court asked the council to refer the train driver, as well as the SNCB and Infrabel, to the police court in Halle. In April, the council chamber gave a ruling on this. According to the public prosecutor, SNCB and Infrabel were unintentionally responsible for the train accident: the SNCB by using train sets that were not equipped with the safety system and Infrabel because the tracks were unsafe. What is your response to the decision of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court to prosecute the railway companies? During the special committee meeting following the train accident in Leuven, you confirmed that no ERTMS was installed on the derailed train. Do you not fear that the parquet will also want to prosecute the railway companies in the context of that train accident? Is there a risk that SNCB and Infrabel will be prosecuted because the ERTMS safety system has not yet been installed on the derailed train? If the absence of the ETCS system could lead to the liability of SNCB and/or Infrabel, this could have major consequences. How do you intend to avoid such a situation in the future? Can you provide an overview of all SNCB's rolling stock with its safety systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u50	Part of my answer was written in French because it was a combination of questions. First of all, you're asking me for my opinion. I would like to remind you that justice is independent. Every accused person is presumed innocent until the trial has fallen. ETCS equipment is under way on the basis of the plan adopted following the Buizingen disaster. There is no legal obligation to equip all equipment and the network at the present time, but moving forward at the best and as quickly as possible, making more security is a moral obligation. It is also valid in all areas where risks are present. In this context, if, in the future, developments could further speed up rail safety, I will certainly propose them to you. Finally, the companies provide me with the following information. As regards the roll-out of the ETCS and the maintenance of the equipment, SNCB has provided me with an overview of the planning for the roll-out of the ETCS on its equipment and I will provide you with this as an annex. As far as the increasingly stringent deadlines to which Mr Hedebouw refers are concerned, SNCB informs me that there have been no changes in the tasks of the train escorts. To ensure working conditions, SNCB has a plan to improve both operational and occupational safety. The planned budgetary constraints on SNCB do not affect the projects to improve operational safety, in particular the roll-out of the ETCS on existing equipment and the purchase of new equipment to replace the equipment of which it is no longer economically appropriate to equip it with the ETCS. In order to improve the control and maintenance of rolling stock, maintenance of the equipment shall be monitored on a permanent basis, both in terms of size and frequency. SNCB has increased quality checks in the workshops and introduced a system allowing central services to monitor maintenance performance. As far as the omissions complained of are concerned, there is still no clarity at present as to the facts being charged to each of the parties. The planned course of justice should clarify that responsibility. I therefore wish to be cautious and not to take any positions on this issue. What matters now is to ensure that what was decided as a result of the Buizingen accident is carried out on site. As regards the improvement of working conditions, Infrabel and SNCB consider it important to continuously improve the working conditions of their staff. This includes only a selection of the numerous examples of actions taken. Firstly, the simplification of regulation with clearer working procedures and working instructions as a result. Secondly, mapping and documenting processes to enable correct knowledge transfer. Thirdly, to set up new workplaces as ergonomically as possible to promote optimal cooperation. Fourthly, the introduction of safety systems to improve the security of staff during work on the railways and in workshops in order to develop a better safety culture and to increase safety levels, both in terms of operational safety and well-being at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. I follow you in your respect for the separation of powers. We have to wait and see. The verdict will be what it will be. I understand that you show caution and caution in your reply and that you are careful to adopt an over-spoken position today. That's all I can say for that. However, I think we should be aware that the verdict that is coming to us in the near future may also be very conditional, and that I will continue to have a major impact on rail transport. If a conviction were to follow, we would have to take an initiative to resolve a number of gaps or problems. A decision could be, I am now freewheeling, accelerating the roll-out of the ETCS. Even if that were a decision, it wouldn't be for tomorrow. The rollout isn't until 2023. Even if we decide to step up our efforts, that will take a number of years to come. During the period of bridging, I can imagine that there will have to be a way forward for the railway companies in view of possible damage to future rail accidents, which we all hope will not happen but which we must never rule out. So I think, in all modesty, that we should be ready to anticipate the verdict that is to come and that we should see a follow-up after the verdict has been reached, which will ensure that we can continue to guarantee the transport offer. Therefore, I do not think it would be unwise to start that thought exercise proactively with your cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u52	My question, Mr President, is this: 17273 is a rather technical question and I propose that they be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u53	Minister, a few weeks ago in the media, we were able to read a lot about the alcohol lock, among other things, that the government is in the process of drafting a bill on this subject, and it is called a discussion. I don't think there's any discussion about that. We have also discussed this on several occasions in this committee, and several groups agree that the regulation of the alcohol lock should certainly be introduced. To decide whether this is a discussion or an ordinary conversation within the government, I would like to ask the following questions. Will the new law that is coming require the offender to install an alcohol lock or will he be able to choose between an alcohol lock and an alternative punishment? That is a crucial discussion, because if it is no longer mandatory and one can buy it off, then the impact is not the same. From how much promille do you have to install an alcohol lock? After all, there is something different in every article. Could you clarify that a little bit? Is it true that the new measure would also apply to any driver who causes an accident under the influence of alcohol? Do you also consider the possible preventive use of an alcohol lock in taxis, trucks, cars or school buses in the new law? If that is not the case, why not opt for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u54	Minister, for almost seven years, judges have been able to impose an alcohol lock. The answer to the many questions that have already been asked shows that this is only happening in a limited number of cases. One of the reasons for this would be the high cost of installing and renting the alcohol lock, as well as the accompanying programme, about EUR 3 000 per year. In reply to my question, you asked at the end of October that it is currently being examined how the technical requirements of the aircraft can be standardized at European level as far as possible so that manufacturers no longer have to bear the costs of type approval in each country and the cost could be reduced accordingly. With regard to the preventive alcohol lock, for example for school buses, you said that your administration was investigating all aspects and that consultations with the various bodies and federations involved still had to be started. Last year, too, a number of times, the intention was announced to require judges to have an alcohol lock for alcohol addicts, unless the court gives detailed reasons as to why this is not the most efficient sanction. Minister, how many people has the BIVV been accompanying or are there still under supervision? How many convictions does the BIVV know that have not yet been implemented? What is the state of the investigation to standardise the technical requirements of the alcohol lock at European level? What is the state of the investigation into a preventive alcohol lock? Can you explain the main lines of the bill that has been announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u55	Dear colleague, after several months of work and consultation, the draft law on a joint project of mobility and justice is still under discussion with the various stakeholders, in particular the magistrates and the police. In the provisional text, the court is obliged, in a number of cases, to impose an alcohol lock on the offender. As it stands, a person with alcohol levels of 1.8 or more would have to drive an alcohol lock for one to three years unless he opts not to drive during the same period. It does not matter whether this person is involved in an accident. Also in the case of drunkenness and recidivism within three years, the alcohol lock will become mandatory. At the moment, 55 people have been sentenced to an alcohol lock that has been offered at the BIVV. 21 people have completed the period of the alcohol lock, 5 people have not placed an alcohol lock and 29 people are still driving around with an alcohol lock. At European level, the installation of an alcohol lock is part of the introduction of intelligent safety systems in vehicles. It is then primarily about the technical equipment of the interface to install an alcolock easily in the vehicle. This is part of the discussions that are still to be held in the European Commission's Working Group on Vehicles. Preventive installation of an Alcolock for the transport of persons or goods can certainly improve road safety, but this obligation must be weighed according to the circumstances in each sector. As regards passenger transport in general and freight transport in particular, there is economic competition. The presence of many foreign lorry drivers on our roads is problematic because foreign vehicles would not be covered by the obligation. As far as the preventive alcohol lock is concerned, I am in favour of compulsory use of the alcohol lock in passenger transport, particularly for school transport, as is the case in France, but I have to say that in Belgium school transport is a regionalised matter. It is therefore up to the regions to require the alcohol lock to be used in buses used for school transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u56	Mr Minister, I did not hear one thing: is there any timing against when stakeholders will be questioned and when the legislative work could begin? That's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u58	After the summer recess?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u60	We are also following it very closely. I know that almost all groups are in favour of it. So you will certainly receive broad support for the draft law. We hope it will come to committee soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u61	Minister, I remember that standards at European level are not yet in place until tomorrow, because they are in the large working group. As far as the preventive installation of an alcohol lock is concerned, you are right to say that this is the competence of the regions. We shall hear on the other side how far that is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u62	Mr Minister, at the last hearing of SNCB and Infrabel, the massification of railway works was discussed. Infrabel intends to combine the work on rail infrastructure as much as possible and organise it during the day. This offers a number of advantages for Infrabel, such as the safety of workers, the fact that all work is carried out together at a time and the fact that working during the day is cheaper than at night However, there are major disadvantages for travellers. Rail links would be temporarily completely interrupted during the day and the service would be suspended. Infrabel says that would happen up to once a month during the week. This seems to me to be a major measure for rail traffic, while it is a matter of convincing as many commuters as possible to make the switch to the train. Mr President, first of all, what is your position on the proposal for massification of works? Secondly, how many accidents have occurred during work on tracks at night? Thirdly, Infrabel stated in committee that some works really cannot be performed overnight. What works on the tracks need daylight? Fourthly, Infrabel stated that there are benchmark studies on work on tracks, a comparison with other countries. Can you say anything more about that? What is the usual method? In the Netherlands they have come back to work during the day and do so again at night. Is it possible to deliver the benchmark study to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u63	Minister, I agree with Mrs De Coninck's question. During the hearings last week, there was a sudden talk about the massification of infrastructure. Infrabel gave reasons for the fact that it was safer for staff, could be planned longer in advance, could be better spread over the rail network, better quality of infrastructure, more efficient information for railway undertakings and their customers and the best use of resources. The latter seems to be the main reason. However, there are important disadvantages associated with massification of the works. The impact on the service, and thus on the traveller, will be very large when carrying out infrastructure work during the day and during the week. Not the least will the daily commuter or commuter stay in the cold. It was also found that the passenger organisations were not in favour of the idea and that they were talking about "desastrous consequences" for SNCB and consequently also for the traveller and the impact on punctuality and connections. Moreover, according to Article 5 of its management contract, Infrabel must do everything in its power to ensure that such changes are consistent with the strategic objectives of those undertakings. It seems that the massification does not meet the objective set out in Article 5 of the management contract. Minister, what is your view on massification of works? How will this vision be achieved? What impact will the massification have on railway undertakings on the one hand and on passengers on the other? Can Infrabel simply proceed to such a way of working or should permission be sought from the Minister and/or the railway undertakings? Do you share the view of the passenger associations that massification appears to be contrary to Article 5 of the management contract? Will this be determined in the new management contract? Has an opinion already been requested from the Advisory Committee on Train Passengers? If so, when and by whom?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u64	Massification combines several works on the railway infrastructure in the same time window. SNCB lets me know that she has a lot of questions about how Infrabel will concretely fill in the concept of massification of works. Infrabel will explain this at work meetings to be planned. Only then will SNCB be able to better assess the impact of the proposal, both on the traveller and on the internal organisation. Without prejudice to the outcome of the working meetings, SNCB fears, in particular, the negative impact on the quality of its services to travellers, such as an interruption of supply and the reduction of punctuality. It also fears loss of revenue, higher operational costs and a number of operational difficulties. According to Infrabel, an employee of a subcontractor was seriously injured in 2016 between 8 o'clock in the evening and 8 o'clock in the morning. Infrabel considers that the work carried out during the day generally ensures better performance quality, higher efficiency and increased safety for the staff and also reduces the psychosocial burden inherent in nocturnal performance. Infrabel informed me of her project of massification, which she included in her draft business plan. I asked Infrabel for a comparison with neighbouring countries on the basis of a detailed benchmark. I also expect five companies to give a joint opinion on the impact of massification projects on SNCB's customers, on freight transport and on international passenger transport. I have read through the media about the views of navetteurs.be and TrainTramBus on the massification of works. The quality of services to travellers is important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u65	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I follow your reasoning that the traveller and the service must be at the forefront. I note that SNCB apparently still has questions about the way in which it operates, while it seemed at the hearing that it was a decided and agreed case between the two railway companies. It is a good thing that you have asked for a benchmark. I hope that the committee members will have the same. As regards Infrabel's decisions, I have already told you in the context of the discussion of the investment plan that you have a government commissioner. It may be interesting or useful to play a role in certain decisions along these lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u66	I agree with the reply. The hearing showed that there is still a need for further consultation. Above all, we must be pleased that you are using the principle that the traveller is at the centre and that the impact on the traveller should be reduced as much as possible. We look forward to the outcome of the benchmark and further research and consultation between users and Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u67	That is a question with an intriguing title, Mr Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u68	Minister, I read an interview in the newspaper De Morgen of 25 February. A passage in that interview led me to ask this question. I quote: "Well, I think that's a very strange story, especially if you know what happened. Mr Descheemaecker has been CEO here for eight years. He has accumulated 200 million euros each year, after which he has paid a farewell fee of 1.2 million euros. He then signed a commitment in which he committed himself not to damage the image of SNCB. He then wrote a booklet "Dwarsligger" in which he did nothing else. And he keeps doing this. Can you explain that commitment? Has an effective engagement been signed? Can Parliament have access to that? If effective infringements have been committed, what sanctions are therefore provided for?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u69	My dear colleague, the agreement signed between Marc Descheemaecker and SNCB contains a confidentiality clause which applies to both parties. Consequently, I cannot reveal the content of that agreement, not even partially. The communication to the outside world of elements contained in that agreement, such as amounts or any other information, without the consent of both parties, constitutes a breach of the agreement. I want to keep to the obligation to honour the commitments made in the framework of such documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u70	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I understand your answer, but it is only an answer to my first question. You cannot explain and do not provide me with the agreement because of the confidentiality clause, but I also asked whether any infringements have been committed and whether sanctions have been provided for. Have any sanctions been taken? According to the CEO at the time, in that interview, there were violations, weren't there? My question therefore remains. Are there any consequences for this? I note that the question remains unanswered. I will therefore ask that question again. I assume that the Chairman of the Management Board will be taken into account in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u71	To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u72	Mr President, Minister, we have raised several questions in this committee about the Action Plan. Initially it was about the Action Plan Consider 2008/2015. In fact, I think I remember that we were given a presentation here in this committee about the roll-out of that timing and the investment amounts that were against it. In the original plan, 200 were planned to be phased out by the end of 2015. 119 consideration was also effectively abolished, in my view. A new action plan was then put in place, but then there was a lack of clarity about the budgets that would be allocated to it. The various questions and answers show, in my view, that there is a huge delay. I am well aware, Minister, that abolishing consideration costs a great deal of money. The question is, therefore, what is the marginal added value in terms of security? However, in view of the annual accidents, the investments seem perfectly justified. In 2012, the company VRS was awarded a contract for the development and placement of new transfers. After a number of years, that mission appears to have been withdrawn, which once again means a great delay. I therefore have a number of questions. When and why exactly was the order to VRS for the renewal of the railway crossings withdrawn by Infrabel? What was the value of that contract? What was the foreseen timing of the development of the new system and its roll-out in the field? How many railway crossings are we talking about exactly? Have both legal steps been taken? What is the plan now for the renewal of rail crossings? What impact does the withdrawal of this contract have on the original planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u73	Mr Geerts, Infrabel terminated the contract with VRS on 17 November 2016 because VRS failed to comply with the contractual provisions. The contract with VRS was concluded for an amount of about 64 million euros. The contract provided that the prototype of a new railway crossing had to be validated 12 months after the order by Infrabel. It was a roll-out over ten years. Eight hundred reflections were planned to be renewed. As a result of Infrabel's decision of 17 November 2016 to terminate the agreement with VRS, VRS launched an interim proceedings for the appointment of an expert. VRS' claim was rejected as unfounded. VRS has not yet initiated a substantive procedure to confirm the termination decision. Infrabel is now continuing to renew the consideration, in particular on the basis of existing technology and against the same rhythm as was planned with VRS. So the innovation isn't going to stop at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u74	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Cases relating to the termination of the contract are not for me, but for the court. Minister, what I think is important is that you say that there is no impact on the roll-out of the consideration's security. That was mostly my fear. That programme had five years of study and I feared that the termination of the contract would delay it for five years. We have already discussed in this House and in other committees that it is important to roll out decisions, otherwise there will be problems. I hope that the roll-out, as you say here, will not be delayed by these decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u75	Mr Minister, I will be brief, because the fact is known: an M6 aircraft lost some wagons with a total of 700 passengers. Luckily, no one was injured. What are the possible explanations for aborting the coupling? When was the last time the trains were checked? Have we now looked at or planned for all M6 devices? What are the extra delays in the morning rush due to that incident? Finally, the reports on the delays of SNCB and Infrabel refer to delays by third parties. What is the percentage of delays due to material defects?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u76	Dear colleague, SNCB is currently investigating the possible causes of the decoupling of two wagons at Ans on Thursday 9 March 2017. Aborting a link cannot be ruled out. SNCB therefore has a specific procedure for this. The incident showed that the driver reacts quickly and efficiently. The brake equipment is adapted for such a situation and intervenes automatically. The carriage in question was last revised in September 2016. The last visual inspection from a playground dates from December 21, 2016. No anomalies to the coupling were found. The incident has indeed led to an in-depth review of all the links of all M6 vehicles. The additional delay resulting from the incident during the morning rush from 6 a.m. to about 9.30 a.m., arrival in Brussels, can be summarised as follows. A passenger train was abolished. Nine passenger trains were partially abolished. Twenty-two passenger trains delayed a total of 319 minutes. Two international passenger trains were delayed for 34 minutes. A Thalys train was delayed for six minutes. In total, 35 trains were delayed for 359 minutes. Overall, the decreasing trend in punctuality rates of 2014, 2015 and 2016 is due to material incidents. As an annex you will find a document containing an overview for the period 2010-2016 of the number of minutes delay included in the reports "incidents assigned to the equipment. We'll give you that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u77	Minister, I thank the Minister for his very specific answers. Fortunately, the incident has remained without casualties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u78	Mr Minister, speed pedelecs were indeed on the agenda here too. It was found that there was an increase of 13 % in 2016 compared to 2015 in the number of cycle commuters. There are several transport studies in which one wonders what the future will be. In my written submission I have listed a number of them. What is the reaction of you and your administration to these various investigations? It is not so much about whether you have read them, but what is the response effective in terms of policy? Eventually, if everyone can see that it is a new trend, perhaps a trend that can also provide a solution to our statistics of congestion champions, perhaps lessons can be learned from it. The bicycle fee already exists for regular bicycles, is it also available for electric bicycles? We saw in the budget debate that nothing was decided on the mobility budget. Sp.a has tabled a proposal, but other fellow Members have also tabled proposals, and I turn to Mr Van den Bergh to make speed pedals tax deductible. What's your attitude to that? Finally, what is the status of the mobility budget? But that'll probably wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many studies do indeed point to the gains of the bicycle for commuting. This trend is also reflected in commuting diagnostics. The use of the bicycle as a means of movement should be encouraged within a more global intermodal policy. The electric bike certainly deserves a place in this, as it offers a positive solution to both the congestion problem and the environmental challenges. In order to promote mobility with electric two-wheelers, I have proposed several measures to encourage the use of speed pedals and motorised bicycles for commuting and other movements. There is currently consultation with my colleague, the Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt. My fellow Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt is currently working on a proposal to encourage people with a company car to give up their vehicle in exchange for a positive mobility allowance. This allowance will allow them to finance their mobility in a different way and to have access to other modes of transport. Interkabinets are currently in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have another question. Do you have a view of the cost, both in terms of taxation and in terms of the RSZ, within that inter-kabinette group? Do those figures exist within the administration of the FOD?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u81	We don't have any money yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u82	Mr President, Minister, the news is catching up. You're aware that SNCB closed Binche station before yesterday. I therefore take advantage of this question, which concerned essentially the PMR access and the expansion of the parking lot at Binche station. The Binche train station was inaugurated in 1911 at the same time as the Antwerp train station. These two stations have not received the same care in recent years. However, the site of the Binche station is a classified site even though the station itself is not. All of this to understand the issue we are dealing with today. The station was closed Monday night. I was told by the SNCB services. I went there yesterday morning. I was informed this afternoon that the work had been completed. This work connects the entrance of the passenger building to the train station wharves where people take their trains. The station was reopened to the public this afternoon, which I am delighted to hear. However, questions arise as to the future investment of this building. In the written text of my question, I spoke to you about the access to the docks for people with reduced mobility, the improvement of lighting, the extension of the current parking lot of the Binche railway station with security along the roads. I would also like you to provide me with information on the renovation of the roof and the entire station. Maybe you know this station. We've come a long way to make movies. Ruppert Everett was still there at Toussaint to trace Oscar Wilde's story, where Dany Boon was present for one of his last films. We know the evolution of the railways. The feeling of the Binchois is that they are gradually isolated from their station, that we are not investing in it. There is an ASBL, the Royal Camera Club Binchois, which has taken possession of a wing so that it can continue to support this station. Today, the blue stone falls apart, the toilets are condemned, people with reduced mobility are practically unable to get on the train, there are two tracks left. The glass roof, which was beautiful, is no longer maintained. The woodwork, which is absolutely magnificent, is left to abandonment. I can tell you that today we are witnessing a heritage murder that is taking place under our eyes in silence. I know that this year you will unveil the multi-year investment plan. I have had extensive meetings with SNCB's administrative officials in my office at City Hall. They're all in love with Binche station. They tell me, minister: "It can be said that it is one of the most beautiful stations in our Kingdom, with the station of Tournai." I know the care that the station in Tournai received. I know that. I know the investments that are made all over Belgium. All of the work that could restore its entire chandelier to a station that is more than a hundred years old has been estimated at 3.2 million euros. It is a centenary that could make our pride that is now crumbling and destroying in front of us. I appeal to your responsibility. I appeal to your ministry to finally hear what we have been saying for a long time. I believe that it would be a pleasure for many people and that we would do a useful work in front of the story that will one day judge us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u83	Mr Devin, let us remain modest. We'll try to write the story of Binche Station. First of all, I will answer the original question. SNCB tells me that it has planned an amount of EUR 200 000 in order to stop the deterioration of the station pending a definitive solution and/or to release the amounts for its renovation. The study on roof renovations will begin in 2017 and will be completed in mid-2018. Renovation of the wharfs or the installation of devices to facilitate access to the wharfs for people with reduced mobility are, as you know, more complicated, since the station building and the entire site are classified. For the rest, I can only repeat what I have already said: a consultation started with Infrabel following the approval of a draft IPR by its board of directors on 20 February. Once this consultation has been completed, we will harmonize the IPPs of SNCB and Infrabel in the framework of the investment unit's work. After these two phases, the PPI of the two companies will be stabilized and it will be possible to specify which projects will actually be planned. I would like to add two elements. First, of course, I was sensitive to the incidents that occurred on Monday night. The surface of the Binche station far exceeds the current needs of the station's operation. It is a building whose heritage must be preserved and I have been informed that there have already been contacts in the past between SNCB and your communal administration to chart the future of this building. I suggest that a meeting be held on the spot with the officials of the SNCB, the communal administration, a representative of my cabinet, in order to take a look at the question. The urgency seems to be settled, but I think that we also need a structural solution, in order to find the best destination for the station, to preserve the building and to facilitate the lives of travellers. It is necessary to define what collaboration is possible, which premises are no longer necessary for SNCB's activity and which could be assigned to something else. For this reason, the best interlocutor for SNCB is the communal administration, as I often remind SNCB agents. That's what I'm suggesting you do. I will give the necessary impetus tomorrow morning to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u84	Minister, first of all, thank you for listening and for your quick reaction. These two hundred thousand euros will enable work to be carried out immediately. I take note of the work that will begin in mid-2017 on roofing, as you have pointed out. For the renovation of the docks, the entire site is classified, but I don't think it prevents the work. As I told you, the site is classified, not the building or the two windows. There is no impediment to carrying out certain works, but unfortunately there are no Walloon subsidies available within the framework of heritage. Indeed, it is not the buildings that are classified, but the site. I welcome the fact that you are proposing an on-site meeting. I imagine a member of your firm will contact me to set the earliest possible date. I know, minister, that you went to La Louvière recently. If a member of your firm comes, we will be very pleased to receive it, and we will be able to move forward together on the matter. You know that. If you come to Binche, we will welcome you with great pleasure. In fact, Mr. Destrebecq told me that you were going to come one day, but that it was postponed. Come on, you'll be welcomed. Do you know that the most important is the amounts included in the Multi-Year Investment Plan? It's your responsibility, Minister. The City of Binche is ready to work together towards a successful outcome of the case. Please hear the cry of those who defend their heritage. I know that you will have an essential role to play in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u85	Mr President, Minister, recently, the municipality of Morlanwelz has told us of problems of maintenance of several land belonging to SNCB located on rue des Déportés, rue de la Tour, rue du Trichon. Minister, can you provide us with information on the planned maintenance work on these lands? When will they begin in the city of Normalians?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u86	Dear colleague, SNCB maintains the areas accessible to customers at Morlanwelz' unguarded stop point. The SNCB informs me that the last cleanliness index of February 13, 2017 gives a result of 89.83%. SNCB states that the sinter near the breakpoint generates a lot of waste in its facilities. In the near future, shelters on the wharf will be repainted by SNCB. The land on Rue des Déportés is owned by SNCB. Those located in the streets of Trichon and the Tower are property of Infrabel. On these grounds, a clandestine deposit of household waste was found. Although this generates a significant cost for its services, Infrabel planned to evacuate it in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u87	I thank the Minister for the accuracy of his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u88	Mr President, I know that you are familiar with the matter because you are following the work of the Centre's Urban Community, one of which brings together the mayors and deputies of the Central Region in Braine-le-Comte. Together we are all defending the maintenance of this town's railway station so that it can fulfil, as planned, its role in connection with the passage of the RER. Mr Minister, the Centre's Urban Community has sent us a file concerning the extension of the parking lot at Soignies station, a request that the City of Soignies has made in the past. Indeed, in front of the station there are old forges belonging to the SNCB. The demolition of these forges would allow the creation of new parking spaces. Minister, are there any plans to extend the parking lot at Soignies Station in the future multi-year investment plan? Let me turn to my second question. Mr Minister, your predecessor, Ms Jacqueline Galant, announced the release of a €6 million envelope for the Centre region, which corresponds to 7% of the amount invested in the 2013-2025 PPI for all Belgian stations. Minister, at what time will we be aware of the major investments planned for stations in the Central Region in the next IPP? Can you confirm that part of this plan will be devoted to this region? That is my third question. As much Binche has a beautiful railway station, so much the parking lot in Leval that I frequented very diligently when I was working in the office of Minister Demotte is delagged. It boils down to a few stones with dust or mud when it rains. A refurbishing of the floor covering and improved lighting would be sufficient to secure the site. Here we are talking about a layer of tarmac and not about the construction of a station requiring an investment of EUR 4.3 billion. I repeat that this is only a layer of tarmac so that people can park and take their train in good conditions. Minister, is this useful, necessary, inexpensive investment that can, frankly, improve the mornings and/or evenings of many people, commuters, workers, rail users included in the multi-year investment plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u89	Mr Devin, perhaps I will disappoint you because you are asking me to be concrete. I like to speak in tangible terms, but when I can't do it, I'm not risking it. Today, we are in consultation with Infrabel following the approval of a PPI project by its Board of Directors, which met on February 20th. You know that he commissioned the management to meet me and my technical teams. Once this discussion has been completed and the major choices have been identified, it will be necessary to harmonize the investment plans of SNCB and Infrabel. Suppose Infrabel plans to upgrade the wharfs at one location, it should be noted that the coating is the responsibility of the SNCB. As soon as this has been done, it will be presented to the investment unit. After these two phases, the IPPs of the two companies will be stabilized. It will then be possible to specify the planned construction sites. All applications from the three regions were collected. We asked SNCB and Infrabel to objectify the choices according to several criteria such as the transport offer and the transport plan – which will soon be presented to you in Hainaut. These choices are classified according to six criteria. We will see how, through the investments made, significantly improve the essentials, namely the supply for travellers, while preserving the heritage. In any case, I will not confirm or overturn percentages or amounts. If I did, it wouldn't be right, because I don't have it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u90	Minister, I understand your answer, because you need time. I asked you what the deadline was for your verdict. I understand that the investment plans of Infrabel and SNCB need to be reconciled. Do you have any idea the deadline? Will it be this summer or autumn? I would also like to express to you the hope that I place in you so that I can be heard. These are not excessive or pharaohic expenditures. These are useful, necessary, though limited, expenses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u91	I would have liked to have received all the documents in October 2016. I don't actually have them. I already have a lot of them, but I don't have them all. Choices still have to be made. The sooner the better. Besides, I also want to be very correct. I'm not going to promise mountains and wonders. There are ways to expand the supply. I asked that it be validated in relation to the satisfaction of the needs first, of the offer then. I must admit, there are 550 stations. There are probably 300 of them in the same state. I'm not going to sue for the past, I've already said so. If you need a million per station, that's 300 million. We don't have them. That is why I am asking for objectivism according to a number of criteria. If I take the example of Binche, La Louvière-Centre or other stations, the surfaces of the buildings are far too large in relation to the actual needs. What I am asking for is a common approach to all local actors. In addition, I ask to see, first, whether there is an assignment and, second, a reason in the tariffs, in the prices, in the clauses, a standardization of the approach. I think that's how we'll have a strategy with visibility and objectivation in the choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u92	Mr Devin is the President of the Centre's Urban Community, which coordinates all municipalities in the Centre region. So, a small priority work can actually be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u93	A meeting will be held shortly for the transport plan. Perhaps it would be interesting for you to stop by to ask SNCB about your stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u94	Mr President, as our President Flahaux says, I preside over the destinies of the Centre's urban community. We've brought together all the mayors, all the deputies. We've gone far beyond the boundaries of parties, the limits of different interests. Cities, politicians, trade unions, entrepreneurs, we met on priorities. I hear your words full of common sense and limited financial capacity as well. If you follow what you say, I have no doubt that the Central Region, which has been abandoned for far too long, will reap the necessary subsidies for its many travellers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u95	Minister, you know the Familleux train station. Therefore, you are aware of the situation that I am going to raise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u96	(...) in another life I was (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u97	I therefore address myself to the lovers of the Central Region. I thought Mr. Flahaux was presiding over the MR's destinies with respect to his trips abroad, but if he travels the Central Region, I am very pleased with that. More seriously, Minister, the Familyureux station lacks parking spaces and does not have an arrangement to facilitate access to the docks of people with reduced mobility (PMR). Moreover, given the low height of the wharfs, it is very difficult to get on trains there. As far as train offers are concerned, it seems necessary to develop rhythms during the day, weekends and peak hours because of the increase in traffic caused by the creation of new zonings and by the extension of existing zonings. Minister, can you provide us with information about the installation of a PMR device on the docks of the Familleurs station? Is the increase in the number of trains at the Familleureux station planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u98	Dear colleague, assistance to persons in wheelchairs is provided in 114 stations which are defined in the management contract with the State. SNCB informs me that no devices are therefore installed or planned on the docks of the Familleurs stop point. As answered last month to question 16113 concerning the planned changes in the transport plan for lines 96 and 108, the 2017 transport plan focuses on three development axes. In addition to the quantitative extension of the transport offer through the addition of new trains, plus 5.1% on average in the country, the SNCB also aims at a qualitative improvement of its plan by increasing as much as possible the commercial speed of its most frequented relations (on average 3% of journey time) and ensuring the development of train and bus-train connections. As far as the concrete projects are concerned, I invite you to go to the roadshow for the Hainaut which is taking place, I think, on 31 March next.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u99	It will be Friday, March 31 at 2:00 p.m., before Easter holidays. We will therefore have all the time during this school holiday to deepen what we have been told.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u100	Mr President, Minister, recently, the mayor of the town of La Louvière, Jacques Gobert, referred to problems of maintenance and insecurity in the vicinity of La Louvière-Centre station. While budgets were available in SNCB's former Multi-Year Investment Plan (MIP) for its renovation, it seems that this is no longer the case today. SNCB even plans to place containers on the parking lot in order to accommodate passengers and close the station without carrying out any work and to establish a clear schedule for its reopening. A meeting on this subject between the CEO of SNCB, Mrs Dutordoir, the mayor of La Louvière and yourself took place in early March. In this regard, Minister, what are the short- and medium-term measures you intend to implement to maintain the La Louvière Centre station and improve safety near the station? In the previous Multi-Year Investment Plan, renovation and maintenance of the Centre Station was planned. Does this work also appear in the next IPP? If containers were to accommodate commuters, what is the planned renovation schedule for the current premises of the La Louvière-Centre station?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u101	Minister, following the emolument caused by the announcement of the closure of the La Louvière-Centre station and its possible destruction, you went there with Mrs Dutordoir the day after she took office. On this occasion you reaffirmed the desire to maintain the service of La Louvière-Centre. As far as the future of the building is concerned, SNCB and the city must examine together what will be done about it, particularly with regard to the many unoccupied spaces today. They must work together to ensure the control and safety of the premises. The fresco that adorns the room of the not lost will not be destroyed. Commuters will continue to be sheltered and warm. Several avenues had already been mentioned regarding the future of the now closed buildings: the destruction of the building and its replacement by another, of smaller size; the reduction of the size of the existing station; the organisation of a partnership between the city and SNCB to occupy empty premises. Not later than yesterday, I heard about the fact that La Louvière's prevention department could eventually settle there. Finally, the installation of activities of the nearby Maison de l'Entreprise. The discussion is under way. No decision has been taken to date. The city and SNCB gave themselves three months to decide. Do you confirm these deadlines? The municipal majority PS-MR recalled that a renovation project exists that would integrate the station and the old site Boch with new housing, shops and leisure. The city also points to the ideal location of this train station in the city centre, allowing the inhabitants of the centre of the Louvière to go to Brussels in particular, without using the car. Does this lead seem viable to you? Among the elements advanced in this project, SNCB undertook to maintain the reception in the station, to develop a car park of 450 places and to finance the renovation of the building to the tune of 450 000 euros, with the city of La Louvière committing itself to finance the balance. The proponent, depending on the budget allocated, had to choose between renovation and reconstruction. What about this project? Is it still up to date? Is it likely to provide the solutions expected by the various stakeholders including SNCB customers? Thank you, Mr Devin, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 March I took part in a visit to La Louvière-Centre station in the presence of the mayor of La Louvière and Mrs Dutordoir, CEO of SNCB. It was his first on-site visit. SNCB is faced with the maintenance of a building of nearly 2,700 m2, much of which is no longer useful for its needs. As a result of this visit, it was decided to organize new meetings between the City and SNCB, in order to study and identify avenues for reflection for the entire site of the station. I have proposed that the conclusion of all this be communicated to us not later than three months from now. The options envisaged to date are: the complete renovation of the building and the disposal of the surplus part, the partial renovation of the building and the demolition of the surplus part, the demolition of the entire building and the reconstruction of a more functional building adapted to the future needs of SNCB. I add a fourth option: the alienation of the building, as it is, and the construction on the side of a functional building by SNCB to meet its needs. A first technical meeting was held on 14 March 2017. We didn't drag. During this meeting, the City instructed the Intercommunal IGRETEC to collate the needs of internal services to the City but also to look for other public actors who might partially occupy the building of the station. A future meeting is already scheduled. Once this study is finalized and agreements are reached between the various partners, SNCB will be able to plan and quantify the budget to be provided in the Multi-Year Investment Plan. With regard to security issues, the La Louvière station was equipped with surveillance cameras, following a visit by Ms. Galant a year ago, during which security concerns had been reported. In addition, the teams of Securail patrol on a daily basis. SNCB further informs me that the municipal authorities of La Louvière and the SNCB's Corporate Security Service are expected to sign the declaration of intent in the near future with a view to drawing up the joint tripartite security plan (police, commune and SNCB area).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u103	Minister, in short, anything is possible. Everything is possible in the future for the station of La Louvière-Centre. I take note and I am pleased that a technical meeting has already taken place and that, within three months, we will know precisely the future reserved for this building in the Cité des Loups.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u104	Minister, as far as I am concerned, I would say that it is indeed a range of possibilities. We must greet Mrs Dutordoir, who devoted her very first visit to the station of La Louvière. I think she's got her name. Dutordoir is a name of Champagne origin which means that we twist the vine. There, the various possible proposals will be twisted to find the substantive marrow of the best solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u105	Mr Minister, considering that there are two Members from the Central Region in your committee, and that they remain until the end, in your place, I would invest in the Central Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u106	Minister, I have already asked you about the access of the PMRs to Binche station, and other stations. Here we see a chronic lack of investment by SNCB in equipment that allows PMRs to board or land at stations. This lack of attention condemns people in wheelchairs to being dependent on assistance. Making the train station docks accessible to people with reduced mobility would allow everyone to enjoy a high-quality journey. What do you intend to do to facilitate access to trains for people with reduced mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u107	Mr Devin, to be concrete and precise, the SNCB informs me that a procedure for the purchase of mobile ramps and lift platforms is under way. From a broader perspective than the implementation of the obligations under EU Regulation 13000/2014, a national implementation plan, called the NIP, has been drawn up and incorporates the accessibility objectives of the stations for the coming years. This plan aims to phase out all barriers to accessibility that have been identified. The timing of the implementation of the national plan and the scope of the measures have been defined. The Belgian plan was drawn up in consultation between SNCB, Infrabel and SPF Mobility. The implementation of the NIP and its planning will be analysed by the SPF, as part of the coordination of the IPPs of the two companies, to verify that the plan is being met, as soon as the IPPs of Infrabel and SNCB are finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u108	Once again, I will be patient until the PPI unveils. We will then pay close attention to the investment figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u109	Mr. President, Minister Infrabel and SNCB have agreed to reduce the punctuality rate. In 2016, the punctuality of trains was 89.2% due to the security measures taken in the wake of the attacks and the increasing phenomenon of trespassing. Both companies believe that it is not realistic to commit to achieving a punctuality rate of 91% for 2017 and 92% for 2019. As a result, today we are talking about a timeliness target of 89.5% for 2017, 90% in 2018 and 90.5% in 2019. Minister, what is your position on Infrabel's and SNCB's ambition to lower the punctuality rate? The commuters are exasperated by the continuously late trains, especially on the 96 Mons-Brussels and 108 Binche-Turnhout lines. Petitions have also been launched on this subject. So why lower the punctuality rate? Isn't that sending a bad message to commuters?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u110	Dear colleague, in 2016, the punctuality of trains is displayed at 89.2% - which means that there are 89.2% of trains arriving less than six minutes late - partly because of the terrorist attacks and the security measures taken in the wake as well as the rising phenomena of trespassing. Strikes also severely penalized traffic in 2016, resulting in a significant increase in the number of trains abolished. Although punctuality in 2016 is lower than in 2015, the 2016 result is the second best in the last eight years. In fact, the figures for network punctuality per year from 2009 to 2016 are: 88.9%, 87.5%, 87.2%, 85.6%, 88.2%, 90.9% and 89.2%. Behind every train, there are railwaymen fighting for everything to go well. I do not accept that this daily commitment of thousands of workers is denied by throwing a figure into the ground without placing it in a context. But behind every minute of delay, there are also many commuters waiting for quality service. Therefore, neither can I be satisfied with the current situation. Continuous improvement is an objective that any client-oriented organisation must pursue. As such, I consider that SNCB and Infrabel, together, must pursue this objective. Those who would deviate from this line would deviate from the government's desire to place the customer at the heart of the concerns of the railway companies, which I was entrusted with being the absolute guarantor. I have set as my objective an increase in the quality of the offer to users, which must result in a higher level of safety and an improvement in punctuality. At this stage, Infrabel and SNCB are reflecting on punctuality in future years, but no decision has yet been taken. The further improvement of punctuality remains one of my objectives in the negotiation of management contracts with companies and in the scope of my responsibility. Between the first 10 months of 2015 and the first 10 months of 2016, events outside the company increased by 50%, accounting for almost 47% of the delays. The objectives of punctuality will most certainly have to be established on the basis of different elements. Since then and at my request, concrete measures have been taken, including the designation of line managers and the revision of waiting times at certain pilot stations. I had received petitions for line 96, and I would point out that the person initiating this petition in November 2016 is also the initiator of a press release in which she noted a significant improvement in punctuality in December and January on line 96. With commuters.be, these people criticized and shook the coconut tree, but then acknowledged that the situation had improved compared to October, which had been a disastrous month for commuters. However, nothing is definitive in these matters and we must continue to make these structural improvements and to increase the punctuality on these lines in a sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u111	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u112	Mr President, Minister, we recently learned that SNCB has decided to withdraw from the BeMobEx rail cluster, which aims to bring together Belgian companies active in mobility, in order to secure international contracts, mainly in Africa and Asia. This decision was endorsed at a general meeting in early January. This is a hard blow for SMEs, who could have clinged to the SNCB locomotive and the other major cluster companies to defend Belgian know-how abroad. Minister, what are the reasons for the withdrawal of SNCB from this cluster? What measures do you intend to put in place to promote Belgian railway know-how abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u113	Dear colleague, it is my responsibility that the extraordinary general meeting of the ASBL BeMobEx on 4 January 2017 unanimously accepted the proposal of the board of directors of this association for its liquidation. According to SNCB, the reasons for this decision are multiple:- insufficient size, defection of some large members and inability to effectively attract new companies to effectively carry out BeMobEx's mission; - the institutional situation of Belgium, with economic policy being mainly managed by the Regions, while the cluster has national influence; - too few financial resources, including lack of regional public support, to finance the operation of the ASBL; - lack of interest on the part of members in the many organized activities. The Board of Directors has negotiated favourable terms with Agoria for BeMobEx members who wish to join this association with similar objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u114	I take note of the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u115	Minister, you mentioned the difficulties that SNCB faced in recruiting train drivers. Last week, SNCB officials told us that in Flanders they were no longer able to recruit train drivers because of too many jobs. That is what we have been told. Minister, in 2017, the Belgian railway company plans to recruit 472 train drivers. Is a campaign to promote train driver work planned? What measures do you intend to take to fill vacancies?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u116	I imagine that Mr Devin meant "because of low unemployment" and not "because of employment problems".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u117	I said precisely: "too many jobs" in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Devin, we have already mentioned this point in the committees on 14 December 2016 and 11 January 2017. I can only repeat that at present there is absolutely no shortage of train drivers. Recruitments for 2017 take account of the long training period and therefore cover operational requirements until the first quarter of 2019. We are in order until 2019. These needs take into account not only the new transportation plan, but also the departures of staff as a result of retirements, medical incapacity and resignations. On the other hand, I would like HR Rail to assess the effectiveness of the various communication actions and the various media used, with a view to intensifying the use of channels considered most relevant for the recruitment of drivers. It appears that the communication would not be sufficiently extensive and not the most appropriate to reach the target audience. We asked HR Rail to examine this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u119	Mr Minister, it is true that you have already been arrested in December and January. But you know, we have a lot of ideas. The statement made by the senior SNCB official last week regarding this recruitment was very clear. There was a real difficulty recruiting train drivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u120	Minister, La Louvière-Sud station is at the heart of a vast project: a new bus station, an extension of the parking lot, a new neighbourhood project to ensure a better connection between this station and the city centre. Effective collaboration between the City, SRWT and TECs is currently underway. Minister, can you give us any information about the start of this vast project? How long will it start and how long should it last?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u121	Dear colleague, in December 2014, the City, SRWT and SNCB signed a partnership agreement to conduct an urban orientation study of the La Louvière-Sud station site. This study is not completed, but an urban and environmental report was approved by the City, which launched a public survey. As far as the other work is concerned, as I have already said, the consultation started with Infrabel following the approval of its IPP by the Board of Directors in February. This will become almost final once the Investment Unit has considered it, both CAs have approved it and points are passed to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u122	You know very carefully about this. We will return to the matter again, until you can give us the figures, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u123	Minister, at the 8 March committee, you gave new figures on the punctuality of trains on line 96. How many delays have there been on the 108 Binche-Turnhout line since January 2017? How many train cancellations have occurred on this line since January 2017? Has a line manager been designated for this Binche-Turnhout line? Can you objective quality improvement since the end of 2016? What do you intend to do in the short and medium term to improve punctuality on this line?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u124	It's a line I know very well too, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u125	Mr Devin, Infrabel and SNCB inform me that the punctuality of line 108 was 93.9% in January and 91% in February. It would be a dream if the whole network were like that! So it's a good punctuality. In January and February, 12 trains were partially abolished. Four trains were totally so. There is no designated manager specifically for line 108, but trains running on line 108 also fuel line 96 traffic from Braine-le-Comte where a manager has been designated. Currently, punctuality is above the punctuality targets set in management contracts. SNCB and Infrabel continue their efforts by taking various measures to continue to improve punctuality. Four types of measures are adopted: 1. processing of punctuality at monthly consultation meetings, PEP meetings (Punctuality Agreement Platform) between SNCB and Infrabel; 2. specific meetings, feedback on important incidents; 3. a focus on the first departure of convoys, the reliability of the equipment, the presence of personnel; 4. a focus on the reliability of the various components of the infrastructure, catenaries, track equipment and level crossings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u126	Thank you, Minister. I hear your satisfaction with the punctuality on this line. I can only tell you what is written to me and what is said to me in terms of exasperation: trains cancelled in the morning when we go to work and trains also stopped or cancelled at La Louvière station when we return from work. Today's drama for Binche station is that it is sometimes better to take the train to Braine-le-Comte because it's faster to take the car and take the train there. We end up parking his car in La Louvière because we think it is very likely that the return train will be stopped at this station. I therefore express the greatest fears about the reaction of people who could desert Binche station by favouring safer solutions. It would be incomprehensible to me in the sense that Binche is the thirteenth city of Wallonia – it is the equivalent of Beveren in Flanders. I would not understand that this problem is not being treated as the thirteenth city of Wallonia deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u127	Mr Devin, you'll have the last word. I ask you for the greatest objectivity. I take the SNCB figures: 4 trains deleted in January and February on, no doubt, 130 or 140 trains. Punctuality is 93.9%. Don't make generalities! Don't say that because we're removing a train, it's going wrong. Behind these facts, there are actors from SNCB and Infrabel who work on a daily basis. They're reading what we're saying. These people also want to say that while there may still be 6% or 7% of trains that are deleted or late, they are working on daily improvement so that all trains are on time. I understand the dismay of the passengers who were precisely on one of the trains that had been deleted or who were waiting for him and who suspected that there was an incident. I would like to draw your attention to this point. Collectively, whatever the time, recognize all the efforts that people make, from the driver to the attendant, to improve the quality of service. You are expressing fears about the inadequacy of trains, connections, etc., but I ask you for a real nuance. Rail workers, railway workers and the organization also need to recognize the positive figures, such as those I have just discovered at the same time as you. Sometimes I get the impression, when I read a newspaper, that 10% of trains arrive on time and 90% are late. It's something we know as a mayor or as an elected mayor. We only go to the doctor when we're sick. I never went to the doctor to say everything was okay. Sometimes it is necessary to do in the shade, both we – I did not say that we lived in an idyllic world – the elected ones, as well as the representatives of the associations. You have to be very careful about it. I've already been back: finally, we're at the same level and we've made such an effort. But what's the point because we're still being criticized? That you look at a political choice is no problem. We're here to debate and we can have different options. On the other hand, rail workers and other public service workers make every effort. I think a great majority of people are involved in this every day. Pay attention to this! I am not saying this for here, but in relation to the expression that can be given because some people sometimes experience it a little difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u128	Mr Minister, Mr Flahaux knows me well, as does Mr Crusnière, in different spheres: one within my party, from my group to the House and the other in my region. Mr. Flahaux and I are not of the same party. I'm not known to be an excessive. I'm not in a hurry. I'm not in the crisis. I know very well, on the other hand, that the slides that were presented to us here showed that the Binche-Turnhout line was one of the two lines victims of the highest number of delays and cancellations. I am also the relay of the citizens. You're talking about doctors, but when you've been a victim at this point of cancellations and delays, it hurts right away when you're back. We must also be able to understand it. As a mayor, I also receive grievances and we can explain, objective things. That's what I'm doing too. Here, you give me numbers. I'll relay them and see what's going to come up from the commuters. If ever an improvement was seen, so much the better! I'm glad. And I would never stop fighting for this region to finally get the attention it deserves. You also come from a region far away from the decision-making centres but you are in the decision-making centres. You're the decision maker today. We are a few who are fighting to ensure that too often our neglected regions are given the same attention. You do not have in front of you someone who criticizes the work of SNCB staff. Maybe I'm even, in this room, the one who defends them the most. So I am not aiming at them; I thank them for their work. Understand that in my capacity as mayor and deputy, I have to relay to you what people live daily when they go to work. You gave me new figures today. I will come back to you again in a few weeks or months to see the nature of the evolution of these figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u129	I may be cheating on my President's hat for a moment to point out to you that I do not have the feeling that you have an opponent in Minister Bellot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u130	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the renovation of the Ottignies station. Since I took office as a Member of Parliament, I have repeatedly questioned your predecessor in this regard. It's your turn now. This station was built in 1999 and according to several actors, it would no longer meet the needs of commuters. As a reminder, the Ottignies station was proclaimed the station through which the most people travel daily to Wallonia. The projects include the construction of a new car park of more than 600 places for SNCB users. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. In 2015, the municipal authorities questioned all the authorities involved by recalling that a budget of 60 million was included in the SNCB's multi-annual plan for the period 2016-2020. Do you still confirm this information? Last week, during a visit to Namur station, you mentioned the future work of the Ottignies station? Can you tell us more about the planned work and how long it will take to complete it? Is a calendar already available? Will a meeting with the municipal authorities be planned shortly to prepare the various construction sites and inform the passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u131	My colleague, it is planned to completely modernise the reception facilities at the Ottignies station, as well as the so-called "grill", i.e. the distribution of the tracks, in the context of the RER dossier. The total budget allocated for this modernisation will be determined in the context of the evaluation by Infrabel-SNCB and then by the Investment Unit. I can already tell you that the extension of the Ottignies corridor has been completed and its opening is scheduled for spring. From the opening of the subway corridor, the existing bridge will be demolished. With respect to the extension of the interim bridge, discussions were held with various stakeholders, including the City of Ottignies, to optimize the solution. The terms of reference will be launched on 4 April 2017 and work can begin in August. Finally, a complementary staircase – but these are intermediate works – towards docks 1 and 2 will be built at the level of the corridor under lanes. The timing for this work is estimated at the end of 2017. As regards the larger work, namely the organisation of the station, the construction of a parking lot, the renovation of another, etc., let me ask you to wait a little. The RER Steering Committee will be convened after the completion of the funding and organisation dossier and it is from this point that studies will be continued to start work on the RER line with responsibility for both Infrabel and SNCB. To date, I cannot give you a program or a total amount of work. I asked for the masterplan to be updated with the construction of a two-storey parking lot. As regards the valuation of SNCB's assets, I believe that there has been a CAC for the development of dwellings close to the existing station, depending on the land available. The aim is to start the RER work on the 161 Brussels-Ottignies line, on one side by the Ottignies station and on the other side by the link via Watermael.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u132	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of the fact that there are a series of facilities to simplify the lives of commuters, especially those parked in the parking lot on the other side of the tracks. It's a positive thing. On the other hand, I'm more worried about the complete renovation of the station. This falls within the logic of the RER work but, in practice, there is not yet a budget. Is this budget provided for in the overall budget for the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u133	This is included in the $1.05 billion required for the work of the RER.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u134	These are not additional means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u135	The table I have distributed in committee contains all the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u136	Mr.President, Minister, the 2017 SNCB Transportation Plan foresees changes to the 130a Charleroi/Erquelinnes line, an essential route of communication for many users in the province of Hainaut. Indeed, the Plan indicates that line 130a will move to a track from 2019 onwards. In this regard, Minister, can you confirm that this line will go well into 2019? If so, can you provide us with the objective elements underlying SNCB's thinking on this transition to a path? Will this pass affect the maintenance of this line? Will this pass affect the amplitude and frequency of trains using this line?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u137	Dear colleague, in accordance with section 90 of his management contract, Infrabel cannot proceed on a straight track without the agreement of the SPF and the appropriate minister. This is information relayed by the railway unit of the Walloon Region from a working document of the board of directors of Infrabel. In the absence of a decision, I note that a regional administration plays a political game that I regret. SNCB confirms to me that its transport plan for December 2017-2020 does not foresee any change on line 130a. As on other points, I would like to point out that Infrabel's IPP has still not been approved, and I remain careful that the decisions taken take into account the traveller and the economic development of freight.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-22-54-commissie-ic628x.u138	Mr President, I have taken a good look at the Minister's remarks.
