ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I come to the first question. In an intervention in this commission, you said that the city of Tournai was carrying out "illegal" actions on defence sites. Could I know which sites it is? What specific illegal actions by the city of Tournai are you talking about? Second question. In 2009, at a meeting between the army and members of the municipal college of the city of Tournai, the army announced its intention to purchase the former gendarmerie in order to expand its facilities, including its parking lot. Knowing that the former gendarmerie is in a state of considerable obstinateness, can you tell me what the Defence intends to do about it? Third question. At the origin of the municipal structure scheme of the city of Tournai, the Centre d'études en développement du territoire (CREAT) had suggested to the college to take over the plain along the boulevard du Roi Albert with a public access perimeter as its assignment. At a meeting on 30 April 2009, the Defence insisted that this choice should be reconsidered and that the "public green space perimeter" should be removed in order not to reinforce a public assignment to this plain in the future. At the time, the Defence had the will to build a gym on this field and did not want the mapping of the structure diagram to undermine this possibility. Minister, can you tell me what the plans for the gym are? Fourth question. At the committee meeting on 14 June, I asked you why two generals had come to the Ruquoy quarter in Tournai. In your answer, you tell me, in particular, that General De Baene is in charge of infrastructure matters, but he is also the oldest logistics officer in the Defence. The latter, you add, is the DG Material resources. Despite insistent rumours that some training sections (about 60%) should thus, in the medium term, leave Tournai, can you assure me that the relocation of certain parts of the training is not the intention of the present government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u2	Madam President, Mr Delannois, during a meeting at the Régie des Bâtiments, it was asked to use the land at the Luchet d'Antoing wharf to create a vegetable garden and a field for young people. Defence sent you a draft concession on this subject on December 22, 2016. On the occasion of your parliamentary question No. 16816, on 22 February, you said that the city had been on the ground for years. Nevertheless, I must send you the concession to the neighbourhood committee. On February 3, you received two versions of the concession, i.e. a version on behalf of the city and a version on behalf of the neighbourhood committee, with the specific request to make the choice: either the city or the neighbourhood committee. This request has never received a response from either the city or the neighbourhood committee. We read in the newspaper on March 23 that on the weekend before, individuals planted trees and bushes on military ground. My services sent you a letter on March 30 to report this illegality. Indeed, it is not normal to plant trees on the ground of others. It's not normal for us!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u3	Not at home, either!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u4	On 30 March and only after this warning, the neighbourhood committee responded by e-mail saying that it was going to take the concession in its name but it asked us for a little time to create an ASBL. It is only on June 2 that the message is received that the ASBL is created. On the same day, my services sent him a corrected version with the exact coordinates of the ASBL. As of July 3rd – my answer had been prepared for last week but you were not there – and even today, July 12th, we are still waiting for the signed concession, a month after the shipment. Now I'm asking you the question. Occupying land that you don't own without permission and planting trees there isn't it illegal in Tournai? I think so. Next to that, once again, you ask about the future of the barracks in Tournai. It is your right, but, as I have already communicated on several occasions, the future of neighbourhoods, which takes account of the North-South balance and all the other balances that one can imagine, will only be known after political negotiations. Any conclusion is premature until the government has agreed to the Defence's geographic implementation plan. As soon as the government has made the necessary decisions, consideration will be given to the need for a gym. As I have said on various occasions in this committee, if you take the time to go through the strategic plan, you will see that steps are being taken in the field of training and education.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u5	Madam Chair, Minister, I did not think the minister had already completed his answer. I note, in any case, that the answer to the question of the wholesalers is longer than the answer to the question on the establishment of the military barracks in Tournai. As for the Luchet d'Antoing wharf, the ASBL and the residents, know that the city of Tournai has organized a series of meetings with your services and those of Mr Jambon. At the time, it had been decided that the State could eventually initiate a participatory process and make a convention with the committee of residents, for a symbolic euro. But this decision has not been implemented and you have sent them an agreement providing for payment of more or less EUR 3 000 per year. How do you expect a neighbourhood committee to pay such a sum to plant two junipers? But it doesn't matter. In my view, this is neither more nor less of a reaction on your part to tell me that I am bothering you. But know that I will continue to annoy you until I have a precise answer about the establishment of the military barracks in Tournai! In any event, these are reprisals that I think are somewhat "limitary". That said, if there is a convention, it's between you and the ASBL. That is why the city of Tournai has nothing to do with this case and has not committed anything illegal. In addition, on the occasion of your reply, you could have thanked the city of Tournai, which has been maintaining your land for free for many years without agreement. In addition, it is a bit surprising that you are asking a neighbourhood committee – the government, all politicians say it is important to have neighbourhood committees – to pay 3,000 euros on the occasion of a convention. In these circumstances, I understand that he has turned back. I repeat once again that the city of Tournai is there to help the committee of local residents, but certainly not to sign a convention under which you ask for 3,000 euros, especially since you have enjoyed a whole series of free services for many years. You obviously didn't have to say "thank you." On the other hand, you do not respond to a whole series of elements or to the fact that you – you, the Defence Service – called the city of Tournai so that, in its structure scheme, it could not develop a whole series of projects. From day to day, you changed your mind without warning the city of Tournai. Thank you, of course. Compared to the implant, you don't answer either. As regards the visit of Mr. From Baene, I know very well what he is and you will not make me believe that he came to visit the military barracks in Tournai, when he is the oldest, to know what is going on there. He is the oldest and he knows this very well. I'm just afraid that you played direct billiards and told yourself that you were going to remove the military barracks in Tournai. I did, indeed, make a lot of noise. The mobilization that followed probably bothers you, which gives a little lead in the wing of your plans. You're not playing live anymore, you're playing by the band. I suspect you via Mr. From Baene and formations to empty all that is currently at the military barracks in terms of training at the city of Tournai, thus putting the worm in the fruit so that it rots, to, in a few years, hand on the heart, tell us that we are obliged to "close them" because there is no one anymore in the buildings. That's what you do!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u6	Minister, I would like to ask you again about the future of the Nivelles military pharmacy. The strategic plan provides for downsizing, which will result in the closure and reorganization of barracks. We have already discussed this at length here. Among the bases that could be closed by the government is that of Nivelles, although no political agreement has yet been reached, as you have just confirmed. The lack of a political decision leads to uncertainties for members of the Nivelles military pharmacy, among others. I would like to remind you that 206 soldiers and 22 military police will have to be placed in another barracks. Above all, a unique expertise of our army will be lost both in human and technical terms. Minister, have you made a final decision on the future of the Nivelles military pharmacy or will it be under this legislature? Has information from potentially impacted staff and local authorities been or will it be organised? What is your status in the implementation of your overall plan for the geographical distribution of military quarters?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u7	Mr Crusnière, as already stated on several occasions, the future of neighbourhoods, taking account of the North-South balance, will only be known after political negotiation and decision-making. Any conclusion is premature until the government has agreed to the Defence's geographic location plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u8	Unfortunately, this is yet another response from Normand. Minister, do you realize the concern of the 206 soldiers and 22 military police who are on this base, as well as their neighbourhood? You're holding the same speech every time. I was asking you if you had any information exchanges with potentially impacted staff but also with local authorities. If one decides overnight to remove a barracks in a commune, the consequences will be important. But on this matter too, we will not have an answer. Don't be surprised that we regularly come back with these questions. We would have liked to have a clear timetable, but we do feel that this is a matter that is a problem in this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 19690 has already been dealt with, but you wanted to say something about that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u10	For information, Defence is not currently interested in the purchase of a former gendarmerie in Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament 19730 and 19754 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u12	Madam President, following the brutal decision of the Congolese authorities on 14 April to put an end to the Belgian-Congolese military cooperation, Defence organized the repatriation of its personnel and equipment to Belgium. However, it would appear that this repatriation is not without difficulties, particularly as a result of technical problems and flight bans imposed on C-130 transport aircraft for almost two months. Even more worrying, there would remain twelve Belgian soldiers in Kindu, stuck for several weeks with sensitive equipment (trucks, jeeps and above all transmission equipment) that the Congolese would like to keep. The Defence would therefore retain this dozen military personnel on the spot to monitor its equipment, as long as its repatriation to Belgium could take place. For its part, the Congolese government denied blocking these Belgian soldiers in Kindu and denounced Belgian pressure on the Kinshasa authorities. According to Minister Lambert Mende, no Belgian military is blocked, they are the ones who do not want to leave. Furthermore, according to Mr Mende, Belgium would apply for visas for some 50 military personnel to dismantle the facilities and repatriate the equipment. For him, this is unacceptable, these fifty soldiers are superfluous and these visas will be granted at best to only about 20 people. Minister, my questions are simple. What exactly is going on? How many Belgian soldiers are still present in the Congo as part of this ex-military cooperation? When and how should they organise their return to Belgium? What is planned to ensure the effective repatriation of all their equipment? How is all this organised with the Congolese authorities? What blockages do we have to deal with? What exactly about the visa issue, the number that would be requested? Are they about 50 Belgian soldiers? Finally, if the situation became even more complicated, what means do we have to ensure the protection of our soldiers and their equipment on the spot? Is there a risk to these?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u13	Madam President, I will reply in both languages because the answer has been prepared in this way. At the moment there are 12 Belgian soldiers in Kindu who are guarding our logistics base. That is where the material is centralized that was needed for the military cooperation between Belgium and the DRC. Most of this equipment was stored there because it was used in the framework of our partnership programme. However, it is not possible to withdraw our military until certain parts of the equipment are evacuated. However, the DRC has refused to grant visas and diplomatic approvals since mid-May to allow the repatriation of this equipment, both for Belgian aircraft and for aircraft of our European allies. Despite frequent contacts between the Belgian Defence Attaché in Kinshasa and the Congolese staff, the DRC does not communicate about the reason why these visas are not issued, nor about the conditions under which they might be issued. That's what makes it difficult. A final solution to the problem will only be possible if the necessary visas and diplomatic approvals are given by the DRC for at least one C-130 to allow the withdrawal of arms, ammunition and telecommunications. All contacts with the Congolese authorities have gone through the diplomatic chain. I therefore refer you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is responsible for this matter. I didn't make any diplomatic contacts. It was handled by Minister Didier Reynders and the Prime Minister. During this period of great leave, we had to plan internal rotations within the detachment that will be responsible for redeployment. That is the reason for the visas requested. For now, there are no threats against our military in Kindu. On the spot, relations with the Congolese military are excellent. There is a difference between political life and normal life.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u14	Mr Minister, I deplore this completely irresponsible attitude on the part of the Congolese authorities. They were the ones who brutally stopped this cooperation, established at their request. This was an excellent collaboration, which they wanted to remove as a retaliatory measure. We can also question the desirability of military cooperation with a government that sinks more and more into authoritarianism, the denial of democracy and the denial of the rights of its people every day. But you're right to want to repatriate all this material and keep it safe. The Congolese authorities are clearly responsible for the security of our military on the spot. I understand that in Kindu, the relationship is excellent between our military and the local military or the population. These are the echoes I've had.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u15	Minister, in last Thursday's plenary session, the cooperation agreement between Belgium and Luxembourg, signed in Brussels in 2015, was transposed into Belgian law. This agreement refers to the creation of a binational Benelux unit based in Belgium, where eight A400M transport aircraft will be housed, under the care of both Belgium and Luxembourg. In addition, during the parliamentary discussion in committee, the government provided a list of treaties and framework agreements on general cooperation in the field of defence at binational level. Can you explain the areas of application of the Convention? Are there any projects already in progress? If so, which one? What projects are already planned for the near future? To what extent will the Convention be used to strengthen cooperation between Belgium and Luxembourg? Are there any other forms of binational cooperation in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u16	Mr Buysrogge, the treaty stems from the decisions of the Gaïchel Joint Council of Ministers 07 of 2013, where both governments wanted to seal the strategic partnership. The aim was to provide a solid common legal basis for existing and future Belgian-Luxembourg cooperation. The areas of cooperation identified in the Convention range from personnel management, training, joint deployments, capacity development, communication and information systems, military intelligence, military aviation, military medicine, to well-being, legal support, finance and research and technology. In other words, that is a broad palette. At present, Luxembourg soldiers are formed in Belgian military schools and institutions, and there are cooperations in the field of training and exercises. Where possible, joint purchases of, for example, radioisotopes and satellite communications shall be made. There is also cooperation in the medical field, including air rescue and evacuation and coaching of experts, in the field of intelligence surveillance target acquisition recovery (ISTAR), in the field of air transport with the A400M and the creation of a binational unit. Last week Luxembourg announced its new defence policy 2025+ with a specific focus on international cooperation. There will also be scope for additional binational cooperation with Belgium. It concerns a combined NH90 capacity, strategic communication, chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defence (CBRN), the common procurement of vehicles, the cooperation in the medical role 2, as an extension of the cooperation A400M, the construction of a training centre A400M, with a full flight simulator, the MRTT, i.e. multi-roller transport, of which Luxembourg would like to take a number of hours, and a programme for observation of the earth from space. Another Gaichel was scheduled for last week, but was moved to November 17th. The Convention was signed in 2015. It is a framework treaty that provides a legal basis. In principle, cooperation between Belgium and Luxembourg became more intense in this way. The strategic vision for Defence provides for several elements of binational and multinational cooperation. In this context, cooperation is under way with France on the new motorized capacity, with a country still to be allocated to replace the F-16 and with the Netherlands on the replacement of naval capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed explanation and congratulations on the method chosen. The framework agreement does offer some opportunities for developing cooperation with Luxembourg. There is already an intense and strong form of cooperation with other neighbouring partners. As far as we are concerned, you can certainly go further along that path and encourage international cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u18	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Ducarme's 19887, 19888 and 19889 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u19	Madam President, Minister, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) which proposed the new fighter Saab JAS-39 E Gripen for the replacement of our F-16 bomber fighters threw the glove this July 10. It stated in a communiqué that the partnership desired by the Belgian government would require Sweden "a Swedish foreign policy and political mandate that do not exist today". This very enigmatic sentence leads me to ask you the following three questions. 1. To what requests of the RfGP does this "foreign policy" and this "political mandate" refer, in your opinion? Could you clarify the reasons that the FMV used to justify these two concepts at the last meeting between the representatives of the Swedish Agency and the Belgian Air Combat Capacity Program? 2. Do these two concepts refer to the constitutional impossibility for Sweden to allow the sale of a device that would carry nuclear warheads? 3. In this regard, you stated at a previous meeting of the Defence Committee that the nuclear charge for the replacement of the F-16 would be the subject of a "government decision". Could you tell me if this decision was made? If so, when? What is she?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u20	Madam President, I will try not to repeat my predecessor's question in full. That's pretty much the same question. Minister, can you tell me more precisely what justifies this withdrawal from Sweden and the Gripen? Have you had any contact with Swedish officials in this regard? How should FMV's arguments be understood to explain their decision? How, if any, could the operational support requested by Belgium not be provided by Sweden? Why would it have required a specific Swedish political mandate? Sweden is not a member of NATO: is that enough to explain this withdrawal? Or is it to be inferred that the criterion "nuclear port capacity" has counted here? This was a constitutional problem for the Swedish authorities. However, recently, Saab and FMV continued to actively campaign for their aircraft. I remember a campaign that said it was the plane that Belgium needed. Saab seemed to have no doubt about this. Finally, in view of the two withdrawals already announced (Boeing being the previous), should we fear that the list will be further reduced in the coming months? Is this not likely to limit our options more and more and to undermine the open competition your government wants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u21	Mr Minister, my fellow Members have already outlined what has happened. In any case, this means that there are only three candidates left to deliver the new plane. The choice is actually rather limited. Even before the appliances themselves have been discussed, the question arises whether we will eventually be able to reach the best in terms of price/quality. This concerns us. I have four questions. Firstly, what exactly is Sweden's problem? Is this about the Operational Support Network, as stated in the RfGP on page 42? Belgium would demand from the partner country that it cooperates with our country during military operations for, among other things, the analysis of mission data? Does this mean that Belgium is requesting permanent Swedish support for Belgian operations? Secondly, are the Belgian demands in this respect higher than those of other countries? If so, why has Belgium made higher demands? Could the government not suspect that these requirements would be problematic for Sweden? Why didn't it come up during the initial market exploration? Could we not have foreseen this kind of objection and looked for other candidates? Thirdly, does this question risk being a stumbling block for other countries as well? Could other state agencies, which are still in the running, possibly invoke this kind of argument? Finally, it is well known that Sweden does not, in principle, supply nuclear weapons systems. The RfGP cryptically refers to nuclear weapons capacity in the context of growth and evolution potential. This is what Colonel Harold Van Pee said in the media on February 14th of this year. The Finance Inspectorate also refers indirectly to this in its opinion of 30 January this year. Has the nuclear option possibly been part of the Swedish decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u22	Colleagues, we should read the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) press release as a whole. In this press release, FMV makes it clear that the Gripen E meets all the operational requirements of the weapons systems formulated by Belgium. To this end, I quote FMV: "(...) Gripen fully meets the operational requirements in the Belgian request for proposal." Any considerations relating to specific aspects are therefore unfounded. The nuclear aspect is not part of this declaration. As you know, the request for government proposal also covers other important elements such as the extent to which the future partner, whether or not he is a member of NATO, can support us thanks to his operational expertise, but also the extent to which he can or would like to cooperate in operations in which Belgium has decided to participate. It appears that these elements are the basis of the Swedish Government's decision. During the meeting between FMV and the F-16 replacement program team, no other elements were mentioned by FMV. FMV, on the other hand, thanked our team for the quality and clarity of the RfGP and for the open and transparent way in which it worked. A withdrawal prior to the submission of tenders is not abnormal and has been regularly observed in other markets. Such a decision is the result of an internal analysis specific to each candidate. There is currently no sign of a desire to withdraw one of the three candidates still in competition. We regret but respect the Swedish decision. Cooperation in the context of a replacement of the F-16 will therefore cease in a good understanding and will not jeopardise other partnerships between Sweden and our country. The Swedish decision has no impact on the current procedure or on the planned calendar of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Because of a withdrawal from the market every two months – Boeing, it was more or less two months ago; today it's Gripen – in four months, you will have your fighter-bomber, since there will be only one left! More seriously, I am reassured to hear that it is not, officially or not, the fact of possibly having to carry the nuclear burden that justifies the withdrawal of Gripen. I have heard your very clear answer on this. It would obviously be catastrophic for us if this were to happen; but it is not so if I believe what you have just said. Finally, I understand that the contract takes into account the bidder's ability to participate, at some point, with us, in support, in our military operations. This is something on which my attention had not been drawn to reading the RfGP, but I understand that it is in fact a form of valuing what is already being done. When we went together in Jordan, thanks to your invitation to parliament, we found that in fact we were partners with the Dutch, Jordanians and Americans, who have the F-16 like us. It's something you have to pay attention to. This means that the market is not only about a device, but also about working habits together, which Defence obviously would like to be able to pursue. This is called atavisme in French. However, I think that sometimes you also have to get out of your habits. We need to choose a device that will allow us to be effective in the field, rather than doing what we've always done before. Let us be careful that the effectiveness of the device guides choice, rather than habits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u24	I think I've always been very clear about the fact that we're looking for not just a device, but a capacity and the maintenance of a capacity. As always, the challenge is international military collaboration. Belgium is too small to do things on its own. For each state agency, it is important to show that there is a long-term partnership. You're talking about price-quality. These are not, of course, the only elements to be assessed. It's about there being an open game, still today, where different questions are asked and quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. That's bad news. It is also a surprise because all these manufacturers have made efforts for a very long time. They were waiting for the RfGP. The Swedes thought their plane was the right one. I continue to find it quite strange that, through the RfGP, they suddenly considered that there was a difficulty in collaborating with military operations. I would like to be reassured that the Eurofighter and the Rafale will not have the same types of problems. In the remarks made by my colleague Hellings, these are still F-16s.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u26	There are no F-16 Americans deployed in Jordan!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u27	I'm asking a question. In the comments made by my colleague Hellings, it is always F-16s who are in collaboration. I quote him, I heard what he said. I didn't quote you! If Mr. Hellings finds that his remarks have been distorted, he will tell me, but I don't think so. I hear that there is a difficulty in operational collaboration, which is a surprise. I would like to be sure that there is no bias in the terms of reference, in the RfGP with regard to operational capability and the possibilities of working together on military operations. I hear that an aircraftman, who until very little time ago considered that he had a good plane, withdrew from the race. I would not like to hear that kind of comment from other manufacturers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic710x.u28	I follow the comments made by Mr Hellings and Mr Dallemagne. In any case, it limits our options. I am left with the question of whether we could not have found out in the market exploration that there is a problem there. Moreover, I do not quite understand what the Swedishs really mean by the operational support that we would ask them to do. I also note that where it comes to possible support for a NATO Member State, which is Belgium, the Gripens are also used by the Czechs and Hungarians. Apparently, that's not where the operational support is. So I'm stuck with reasonable questions.
