ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u1	Minister, 3.5 years ago, on 17 July 2013, a draft law on the reporting of presumed integrity violations in federal administrative authorities was adopted by their staff in the federal chambers, following in Flanders. According to some involved in its application, the law has a number of structural weaknesses and is highly inefficient and ineffective. This is also confirmed in the 2015 annual report of the Federal Ombudsman. It states that there are theoretical problems in the application of the law, which have already been confirmed in practice. Other problems have also come to light. For example, the report mentions a possible amendment of the law by mid-2016, although this has not yet been done. What also stands out in the annual report is that for 2015 there is a very clear difference between the number of Dutch-language notifications, namely 25, and the much lower number of French-language notifications, namely four. There is, therefore, clearly a difference in attitude between the language groups. From the field of work I was notified several defects of the law. Firstly, the trusted persons Integrity check reports on their admissibility and then pass them on to the Centre Integrity of the Federal Ombudsman. This will then assess the notifications and give the necessary follow-up, including by means of a written report and a completed written report. According to Article 10 (2) of the Law, it must justify those acts and decisions. However, this raises the problem that the federal Ombudsman, who falls within the services of the Chamber, is not entitled to state his reasons, and he concludes that he does not have to state his reasons in integrity matters, even to the persons involved in the case. Along with the fact that there is no right of access to the report and the opinion of the Federal Ombudsman, all this means that there is no control over the reasons for the actions, not even for those involved. That does not seem to me to be a healthy situation. A second problem is that the opinion, unlike the decisions, is given only to the lead official, who then examines whether or not something is being done with it. That too does not seem to me to be a good starting point if we want to find out incorruptible things. Another flaw is that there is no appeal against the federal Ombudsman's decision. Finally, the duration of protection measures for the reporters, i.e. two years, is very short and in some cases does not prevent reprisal measures from being taken against the reporters. Mr Minister, first of all, do you have any idea how many notifications were made by language group in 2016? What effect did these reports have? Can you conclude from the fact that, for 2017, at least according to the most recent report I had at my disposal, there is a major difference between the language groups in that respect? Secondly, the 2015 annual report refers to the review of the law. How's that going? When can we expect a concrete draft law that will eliminate all these shortcomings? Finally, were the pain points, which I mentioned and which were reported from the field of work, detected at the time of the evaluation? What specific solutions do we want to give?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u2	Mrs Pas, the figures for 2015, to which you refer, i.e. the 25 Dutch languages and the four French languages, relate to the total number of files. However, a distinction should be made in the dossiers between the ordinary requests for information and the official requests for prior advice, which may give rise to a notification. In 2015, of the 29 files, there were a total of 24 requests for information, 20 Dutch and four French, and five official requests for prior advice. All five were Dutch speaking. In 2016, the Centre for Integrity opened 31 files with the Federal Ombudsman, of which 18 were Dutch and 13 were French. Insofar as one would like to divide the whole over language roles, that percentage would come to a close, we are sitting with small numbers at a ratio of 60/40. In 2016 there remains a difference between the language groups regarding the official requests for prior advice submitted to the Centre Integrity, since these are 11 Dutch-language questions compared to 5 French-speaking ones. In addition, since 2016 notifications can also come directly after a favourable advice from a trusted Integrity (VPI). That was five in 2016, in particular two Dutch-speaking and three French-speaking. We note that there is an increase in the number of files in 2016, both on the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking sides. In any case, regardless of whether or not you approve of an increase, the increase proves that those concerned find the way to the procedure. This is also due to the appointment of the first trusted Integrity and a comprehensive communication campaign for all officials at the end of 2015. With regard to the evaluation of the law, I can tell you that my cabinet, in cooperation with my colleague from the Budget, recently completed this exercise. I would like to emphasise that this evaluation was carried out in close consultation with the actors in the field. In this context, both the Federal Ombudsman and the Office for Public Ethics and Deontology were involved. It is quite obvious to involve the actors in the field in an evaluation. Mrs Pas, you believe that this evaluation would expose many shortcomings, but I dare to put that number into perspective. On the basis of this evaluation, I will submit a legislative amendment this year with a number of optimizations and the expansion of the field. With regard to the points of pain you mentioned, I can say that the aim is to achieve greater transparency in relation to the political level, as well as to better protect the whistleblower. I am thinking, among other things, of increasing the duration of the protection procedure, but also of making temporary employment possible in another government organisation, which, of course, would mean a strong protection of the person concerned, but of course only at the explicit request of the whistleblower himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The figures for 2016 were not yet available for me, but they are nuanced. There is a difference with 2015 noticeable. I note that the review of the law has been completed and that this year we can expect proposals for legislative amendment from you. I am pleased that a number of points of concern I have listed, such as the short protection period for the detectors, have been included in the evaluation. I'll follow up on the file and await your bill. If the actors in the field are involved, as it should be, I can assume that some of the issues will already be covered by your proposal. If that is not the case, I will return to it during the discussion of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u4	Mrs Pas, if that is the case, will you support it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u5	Minister, when something is right, we always agree with it. You know our principle. Unlike the group of the N-VA, which systematically votes everything away from us, we look at everything in substance and we judge on the basis of its content.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u6	Mrs. Pas, be careful, because there's a witness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 15, by Mr Gautier Calomne 17490 by Mrs Catherine Fonck will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u8	Mr President, Minister, during the hearings on the 9ter bill on medical regulation of doctors, a doctor told us about the lack of training available to them, which had an impact on the quality of their work. Indeed, we have been told that in a number of medical situations that these doctors are facing, they have had to look for appropriate training on their own, because none of them were planned or organised in this direction. These comments question respect for the law, bearing in mind that article 11, paragraph 2, of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the status of State agents states: "The State official has the right to training relevant to his work and to continuing training for the development of his professional career. The State official shall carefully and with the will to develop his or her skills, follow the training necessary for the performance of his or her duties." However, these doctors are, as State officials, subject to the provisions of this Order. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions. Do you confirm the statement of this official physician that continuing training is not provided for medical officials? If so, what initiatives are being taken to correct this situation? If not, what are the plans for the Medical Consultants of the Office of Foreigners? How many FTE physicians (full-time equivalents) do they work as public servants in the Public Service? Could you give a breakdown by FPS/administration? Who are the beneficiaries of these trainings? Would you be able to list more specifically the medical courses taken? What is the annual budget for these training courses? In advance, Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u9	Member of Parliament, IFA (Federal Government Training Institute) offered training to develop the generic skills of public servants. IFA is my jurisdiction. The IFA acts in addition to training initiatives undertaken by the various departments within the federal government. With no data on the academic title and function of the participants, the IFA cannot identify them as doctors and therefore cannot tell how many doctors have participated in these trainings. Medical training is the responsibility of the organizations to which doctors belong. As far as the figures are concerned, my administration has only partial data, including the number of doctors who have functions only accessible in physical units and who have been recorded in the Crescendo evaluation tool. It's the only way to get data on doctors. There are thirty-one doctors at the INAMI, one at the Interior FPS, one at the Justice FPS, eleven at the Public Health FPS, Food Chain Safety and Environment FPS, including Empreva (as you know Empreva will emerge under the new BOSA FPS), twenty-six at the Social Security FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u10	Minister, you are in charge of the Public Service. I understand that the IFA does not provide specific training for medical officials. I explained the difficulty of identifying...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u11	Mr. Kir, I explained to you that the IFA does not organize courses for doctors. The IFA complements the specific services and is responsible for generic training.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u12	I have called you as Minister of the Public Service in which officers who fall under the Royal Order of 1937 and need training work. This need may need to be addressed. I understand that the IFA does not provide these trainings because it is difficult for it to identify officials who are doctors. Moreover, as you said earlier, it is not within his competence. So we're faced with a problem. Who do you think should organize these trainings for these medical officials currently working at the Foreign Office? Do you think this should be organised within the latter or do you think that an initiative should be taken at your level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u13	I believe I have stated in my reply that it is the responsibility of the CPS concerned to ensure that their officers have the necessary technical skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u14	All right. But if we follow the logical reasoning of the law and the royal decree, every federal officer has the right to receive training to improve and supplement his or her skills. In this case, they are federal agents of a somewhat special status, since they are doctors. To the question of where they can take these courses, for you, it is rather directly to the Agency itself, therefore to the Office of Foreigners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u15	It's always the same, Mr. Kir. When there's a discussion between my group and yours, it's about who's doing what. Who needs to organize training for doctors? If you ask me, I don't think it's necessary for the federal state to organize them itself. There are so many trainings available to doctors on the market. I think it's also a matter of responsibility. I do not deny that the officer has the right to keep himself informed and trained. I do not question this, but the law does not say that it is the IFA itself that must organize these trainings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u16	You are right, these are specialized trainings that require skills that should not come specifically from the state. There are training centres, universities, suitable places. As far as the management of the training of agents is concerned, if I sum up a little, you think it should be the responsibility of the Office of Foreigners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u17	It is the SPF concerned that is responsible for the salary envelope of its agents and therefore also for the training envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u18	This exchange allowed me to identify responsibility. She therefore reports to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. It is up to him to make provision for the training of these agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u19	In my answer, I told you that at the level of Asylum and Migration, I believe there are no identified doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u20	This is very serious because, at present, more than a dozen doctors are working at the Foreign Office under Article 9ter and they are unable to receive training. When we organised the hearings in the Committee on Internal Affairs, this problem was highlighted by many participants. It is clear that there is a problem in identifying the status of State officials who are in a slightly different status since they are also doctors. I will therefore ask Mr Franken the question. Thank you for the exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u21	We have not been notified by Mr Gilkinet and Mr Frédéric. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet (Commission); Mr Gilkinet Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 17288 will be dealt with in the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u22	Minister, despite several attempts in the past to tackle stereotyping and racism within the Antwerp police force, new, little-fine facts have come to light in recent days. I would remind you that less than a year ago the diversity charter was closed in Antwerp. It recently came to light that within a whatsapp group some 25 Antwerp agents have made sexist and racist statements about residents, prisoners, but also show bullying behavior towards fellow politicians and macho behavior and homophobic behavior. It goes so far that a cop's been transferred. He was bullied on a regular basis. A cop tried to kill himself twice. There's a disciplinary procedure against four cops. In spite of complaints from colleagues, the superiors did not intervene in the first instance. According to witnesses, the Commissioner's response did not go beyond: mannekes, be careful. In 2016 the chat group was shut down, but until today it continued quietly in a new group that went on the obscene tour. We expect the utmost integrity from our policemen, there is no doubt about that. Internal monitoring has been conducting an investigation for several months. Also the parquet has now started an investigation into what happened in that whatsapp group. Mr Minister, my questions to you are as follows. What is the status of the problem? What have you already done or have been able to do to tackle the problem in concrete terms and to avoid it in the future? Will the P Committee also examine the problem? How come people with such a profile still get through recruitment? How come the executives seem to be so lukewarm? Apparently, there's a duty of silence or omerta in the force. How come the executives didn't or barely intervene? Secondly, is police training also focused on deontology? How is it ensured that this deontology does not just remain with the theory but is also applied effectively? Is there room for improvement in this area? Are the police sufficiently trained during their careers? After all, it is not enough for young agents who start their training to receive a good education, but then, once they join the corps, they face a completely different or lack of deontology. When I questioned you about this issue last time, you reported that there is an Integrity Contact Point where integrity violations can be reported. The new Network Integrity has already launched a awareness campaign within the corps itself. Despite these actions, we continue to face this kind of behavior. What concrete steps are being taken to avoid this? Another important observation from a report by the Committee P is that it is important that the middle framework is properly involved in both deontology and diversity policies. What concrete efforts will be made in this area to implement it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u23	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, don't just say banana to a chiquita. I mean, don't just say cop to a police inspector or a captain. Secondly, you're talking about 25 policemen. I want to deny this. I can only give you answers to questions about the police officers involved. For the members of the security corps concerned, I assume that you will question my colleague Koen Nonees with the same intensity as mine; at least that is my assumption. This file was explained in detail yesterday at the city council of Antwerp. All elements which could be disclosed in the light of the ongoing investigation were also communicated. I can therefore refer you, on the one hand, to the reports of the city council. On the other hand, the investigation of the employees concerned is still ongoing. As far as your second question is concerned, each time a security or other problem is raised, the proportion of police training is questioned. Although I always point out that recruitment, selection and training are the starting point, what happens later in the organisation is equally important. I am talking here about the processes and procedures that have been written, their direction and follow-up by the executives, the direct role and role of each police officer, and certainly of the managers, the staff resources, the material and the financial resources, but also the mindset or the culture within the organisation. I can tell you perfectly what is provided for in the training, but what happens in the corps is equally important. Specific training for local police Antwerp has been provided in campus Vesta, a workshop on integrity and diversity, a workshop on communication, prejudice and discussion. For the integrated police: holocaust, police and human rights for all staff, police function in a super diverse context, also for all staff. There are currently seven standard degrees of Diversity taught by Unia through a convention of the centre with federal police. The basic module concerns anti-racism and anti-discrimination legislation, identity, diversity and sexual orientation, intercultural communication, the concrete management of diversity in unity, the integration of diversity into HRM policy, the integration of diversity into each police training, training for teachers and all those involved in the integrated police training process and responding to discriminatory statements by fellow police officers. To your third question, I can answer that integrity is a constant priority for the police zones, including for the police area of Antwerp. The integrity coordinator attached to the Quality Management department has already realised the following things, specifically in Antwerp. Firstly, the organisation and development of a Network Integrity. This is a think tank and information body that focuses, among other things, on integrity and makes the related issues negotiable within the corps and promotes information exchange on that theme. Secondly, designing and rolling out internal campaigns Integrity. This is done, among other things, by means of intranet messages, posters, banners and a screensaver with the slogan "Integrity" is the right thing to do, even when no one is looking. Thirdly, the implementation of the projects of the governance agreement on integrity on the integration of integrity into the recruitment and selection process and the development of a notification procedure to act as a means of reducing deontological infringements while at the same time gathering information to work around deontological issues. Fourthly, mandatory trainings for managers on diversity and racism, a workshop integrity and diversity, an experience for all executives that focuses on effective awareness in dealing with differences and the influence of mind bugs. In 2016, 91 executives participated, including the Chief Constable. In addition to the integrity effect, all activities undertaken by the Diversity Policy Cell contribute to the integrity of the Corps. On 21 March 2016, following the International Day against Racism and Discrimination, the Annual Report on Diversity 2016 was presented. The full report can be found on the website of the Antwerp police. Finally, your fourth question. Trust in the police is greatly affected when policemen themselves break the laws they have to enforce. The confidence of the government or citizens is strengthened or diminished on the basis of the credibility of the police. Therefore, integrity is one of the most fundamental values for the police. It is therefore appropriate that managers reflect on this and dare to examine the organisation and business culture in order to have continued attention and focus on this matter. These training courses give managers the opportunity to develop skills to deal with ethical dilemmas in an honest, deontologically responsible and socially acceptable way. The following training courses are given to managers: firstly, introduction to a policy-based handling of integrity, ethics and organisational culture; secondly, integrity policy and the role of the manager; thirdly, integrity management and, finally, holocaust, police and human rights for managers, i.e. concrete handling of integrity in the service. In the future, efforts will continue to be made to make the middle framework more responsive by developing a follow-up to these training courses. That as far as the police are concerned, but I'm telling you, the people involved were also active in the security force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u24	Thank you, Minister. To put it bluntly, there are differences in bananas, there are chiquita bananas, there are fair-trade bananas, and they are also very tasty, and it is true that there are indeed both agents and people from the security corps. Of course, the comments apply to both. You can rest assured that your colleague, Mr Geens, will also be addressed. Minister, I note that despite everything, despite what is contained in the administrative agreement, despite what is contained in several reports, despite the diversity charter signed by the Antwerp police less than a year ago, despite all these training courses, you have called a whole series of training courses and training courses, the Antwerp Corps regularly comes into dispute. That's actually what we need to worry about. There is, of course, the theory, there is the framework. It's not the first time. I am right, integrity is very important, but then we must also ensure that the middle management and the executives play a role in it, otherwise we will get back into this culture. It is often said that the whole corps does not have a problem, I would like to rest assured, but that it is often about a number of rotten apples. The question is also, apparently, a number of rotten apples pop up again and again, how we can prevent the apples from getting rotten. The executives or the middle management have a very important role to play in this. I welcome the fact that training is being organised to point out the role of the middle management, but it will also need to be monitored. The middle framework may be assisted in the inclusion of this role. They also have an important responsibility. They can ensure that integrity does not remain empty words, but is translated into action. I hope that you will be able to insist on this, with every corps and, of course, with the Antwerp Corps, which has unfortunately already been called into question a few times in a few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u25	Mr Minister, as you know, serious and intractable events took place in Antwerp on Thursday 23 March, which led us to think of a potential new attack on our soil. Let me briefly recall the facts: last Thursday, at 10.45 a.m., a Citroën break registered in France drew the attention of a military patrol travelling on Rue du Meir. The vehicle moves at all speeds, forcing pedestrians to step aside so as not to be affected. The military is trying to intercept the car without success. Averted, the local police in Antwerp finally managed to immobilize the vehicle on the Sint-Michielskaai, almost 1.5 kilometres further. Under the influence of alcohol or drugs, the driver will not oppose resistance during his arrest. Man is known in France in cases of carrying prohibited weapons but is not reported for terrorism or radicalism. In the trunk of his vehicle, the deminers then discover a riot-gun, several white weapons and a can containing a product still to be analysed. At 1:30 p.m., also on Thursday 23 March, the mayor of Antwerp, also president of the N-VA, called the media to keep them informed of the police intervention on the Meir earlier in the day. He did not hesitate at that time to speak of a "fouled attack" to evoke the facts. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office had, however, advised him not to speak because he did not have enough information. Moreover, it was still feared that possible accomplices of the arrested man, a certain Mohamed R., as reported in the press, would take advantage of it to disappear in nature or worse, act in haste, in the image of what had happened in Brussels and Zaventem on 22 March 2016. The security services apparently did everything possible to dissuade Bart De Wever from speaking, up to ten minutes before his presentation to the press. They thought it was dangerous because we didn't have enough information, but the mayor of Antwerp still held his press conference. The next day, last Friday, the suspect arrested, Mohamed R., was interviewed by an Antwerp investigating judge. But still according to what is reported, the suspect did not provide any explanation of his behavior the day before. According to what we can read in recent days, it seems that this person was under the influence of alcohol, was a major drug user as well, and his explanations were quite inconsistent. The man was ultimately charged with attempted terrorist assassination, attempted terrorist assault and offences under the arms legislation. Nevertheless, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office confirms that there is no indication that Mohamed R. has engaged in the shopping street with the intention of mowing pedestrians. Last Friday, the day after the press conference of Mr Bart De Wever, the spokesman for the Federal Prosecutor's Office, Mr Eric Van Der Sypt, said: "For the moment, this terrorist attack has not been confirmed at all." Minister, can we have the updated information on this issue, this situation? What, if any, is the charge? What is the progress of the investigation? What directives do the mayors have to follow in this kind of situation? Do they have an obligation to follow the recommendations of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office in terms of external communication? What are the recommendations, the guidelines? Do you agree with the attitude of the mayor of Antwerp who communicated against the opinion of the prosecutor's office and the competent authorities, despite the fact that not all the elements were known? The problem is that such a communication could have had a significant impact on security, on public order. At 1:30 p.m., when Mayor Bart De Wever spoke, not all the elements were known. More seriously, the prosecutor's office apparently asked him not to communicate. This is what the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office itself said afterwards. In your view, does not such a communication have a significant or even dangerous impact on safety and public order? That's what's important here. Did you talk to the mayor of Antwerp about the situation and the security and communication arrangements? If so, what has emerged? Will future behaviour or ways of communicating change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u26	Minister, it is a pity that Mrs Lanjri has already disappeared, because I did appreciate your answer to her questions, especially since the mayor explained the situation in the city council last night for about half an hour and concentrated on making the attitude of the policemen very understandable and why they acted in this way, without explicitly condemning their communication and attitude. I come to my question. Last Thursday, during the plenary session, a man was arrested who rode the Meir at high speed, after soldiers had stopped him. It's highly unclear if the man was planning a hit. Nor were there any indications that he was nurturing extremist ideas. However, it is certain that the man in France is known for weapons and that he has been arrested before for public drunkenness. However, Mayor Bart De Wever and Chief Constable Serge Muyters called a press conference in a hurry. An increased vigilance in the city by police and military was announced. According to reports afterwards, however, the federal prosecutor had said that it was too early to communicate, but Mayor De Wever ignored that advice. Within the hour following the press conference, the coordination body for the threat analysis (OCAD) would have already reported that it had no evidence that it was an unsub with terrorist motives. Minister, you will remember, because you were asked a question during the plenary session and you were standing there with the Belga message following the press conference at.................................................................................................................................................................... However, as a minister, you are responsible for security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u27	What you're saying isn't correct. I read the federal prosecutor's press release in plenary, not the mayor's communication. By the way, she was in French. You will agree with me that the mayor of Antwerp does not communicate with me in French, or very rarely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u28	Didn't you say it was a Belga message?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u29	It was a Belga message spread through the federal prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u30	In that case, if you'll excuse me. Well, that's settled then. I have the next question. What do you think about a mayor holding a press conference on a possible terrorism-related matter, which is also announced through Belga as a possible foiled attack, even before the OCAD has had the opportunity to investigate the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u31	Colleagues, as you know, I cannot communicate any information on the course of the investigation, given the principle of secrecy of the investigation. The competent minister to be addressed to you on this subject is my colleague Koen Geens. With regard to Mr Vanden Burre's other questions and Mrs De Coninck's question, I should like to clarify the following. The mayor is competent in matters of security and public order in his city or commune. If he considers it necessary to communicate information in order to avoid any panic movement, he has the opportunity to do so. However, it is under an obligation to conclude clear agreements with the Public Prosecutor's Office. I have heard that this was the case in this case. Given the importance of social media and the speed of information, I can understand that the mayor of Antwerp felt it necessary to share correct information with the public about the measures taken following the interception of the vehicle that was driving at high speed on the Meir, a busy shopping artery, and the increased police mobilization on the spot. When the people ask questions and action about these events, it is only logical that the mayor communicates. The communication was also communicated to the federal prosecutor, so that the investigation would not be compromised. There has indeed been contact, as I have heard afterwards, between the mayor and the federal prosecutor. The federal prosecutor didn't want the mayor communicating. When the mayor considered that necessary, it agreed with the content of the communication so that it would not jeopardise the investigation. The federal prosecutor's office is usually reluctant to communicate. However, after the London attack with the same mode operandi, communicating with the right information is in order to avoid panic. I insist that the mayor is best placed to make such an assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u32	Minister, communicating because serious and disturbing events are taking place on the Meir in Antwerp, an important trading artery, seems to me quite logical. But to describe the act as a foiled attack, it causes the opposite effect. This causes an unnecessary emotion – especially on March 23rd. What is the objective of the mayor of Antwerp at that time in qualifying this act of terrorist attack when we do not have the elements to say so? I think it is extremely dangerous and undesirable for a mayor to express himself in this way as long as he does not have all the elements. Mr. Did De Wever want to make communication? Did he want to show himself in charge of his city and inflate his muscles? I don't know. But frankly, this sequence is extremely unfortunate and the prosecutor's office itself says so! I think all mayors will have to stick to stricter behaviors and not take advantage of this type of event to make communication. Mr Minister, I do not wish that, but I would have liked to have your reaction if it had not been the mayor of Antwerp but the mayor of Brussels or a city in Wallonia. I wonder if you wouldn't have been more strict in your reaction! I think so, but I hope we never know because I don't want to ask you about other events like this. I think your reaction as Minister of the Interior is very light! I'm not totally surprised, but I wanted to tell you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u33	Mr. Secretary, communicating a mayor to avoid panic, I can understand that. What, however, causes me to panic is the following. The police are being summoned because that man is abusing his wife. They're not taking him. The police are being called because he's sleeping his buzz off in his car, a car with a riotgun and other weapons in the trunk. They're not taking him. It is found that he is illegally in the country, but despite the mantra of our Secretary of State Francken that all illegals who do something wrong are arrested, they do not take him away. Only when he drives up the Meir with his car will he be declared a terrorist. Then something will be done and a major media campaign will be launched. That makes me panic, not the communication of a mayor who wants to avoid panic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u34	Mrs Poncelet, you have two questions under agenda items 24 and 25.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I also have a question (No. 17472) under agenda item 23, which is attached to a question (No. 17450) by Mr Devin. Since Mr Devin had to leave and is not there, I turn my question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u36	Madam President, Minister, following the 2006 Royal Order on Emergency Planning and the various experiences in emergency management, many municipalities, provinces, police areas or emergency areas have developed computer systems to share and manage the information needed for emergency planning and crisis management. In view of the diversity of these information systems and in order to have a common and multidisciplinary tool for the whole country, a market has been set up for the creation of a single federal portal to meet different needs in both crisis planning and crisis management. This web platform is called the Incidient and Crisis Management System, whose acronym is ICMS. Last year, the Federal Crisis Centre had the opportunity to present this project to the various municipalities and users at symposia or meetings, indicating that this platform would be functional from January of this year. If indeed it seems to be accessible to the various users who have obtained and validated their access codes, I have to say that some questions arise and remain unanswered. Minister, could you tell us what progress has been made in integrating contingency plans and practical information related to risk and mapping into this platform? It was said that the information would first be injected by the provincial level before seeking the municipal level. Could you tell me what is actually happening? When, how and how often will users of this platform be trained? I am thinking of the officials PLANU in our communes, who are increasingly being asked on both sides and, in particular, in the small and medium-sized communes. Will the use of this platform be mandatory and what will be the conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u37	Ms. Poncelet, regarding your first question, existing contingency plans can be downloaded by emergency planning officers to the portal. Currently, 290 plans are already available through the portal, both general emergency and response plans, the PGUI, and specific emergency and response plans, the PPUI. The input data – and I come to your second question – can also be viewed on the map, for example hospitals, SEVESO companies, etc. The aim is also to be able to display map data from other sources via web services such as, for example, high voltage lines, sewers, gas lines, etc. These are often already provided by the municipalities to regional services such as the Walloon Geoportal. Still concerning your second question, on the basis of the available data and to the extent that they are relevant for crisis management, a lot of data has been introduced by the Crisis Centre. These are organisations, e.g. municipalities, infrastructure, e.g. SEVESO companies, and contact entities, e.g. schools. For each of these data, contact persons may also be indicated in order to be able to contact the right people quickly. It is planned that these data will be updated by the persons themselves by means of a request for verification of their contact details to be sent to them. A lot of data, at the supra-local level, is already available. Specific data at the municipal level may be added by emergency planning officers. In order to ensure the good quality of the data submitted only once, however, it was requested to wait for the training which should start at the end of April. As for your third question, the best training in the tool is its use. Using the platform in their daily work, users will be able to become more familiar with ICMS. Since the platform has just been launched, particular attention must now be paid to the training of its users. Courses will be given in the coming months for users both by society and by the Crisis Centre, in collaboration with the federal services of the governors. This is the use of crisis management tools, such as logbook, map, etc. and data consultation. In addition, emergency planning officers will receive specific training on input data. In terms of continuity, it would be interesting to be able to integrate these trainings at ICMS into the courses of safety schools in each province. This track has not yet been established but seems to us to be the best guarantee for continuing training. On the other hand, I reiterate the importance of regular exercises by authorities and services. With regard to your fourth question, in addition to the investments made for the development of softwares and the availability of the portal (hardware and hosting), the Home SPF also provides access to each municipality and for each discipline. Initial training will also be offered in the coming months. A document of accession to the portal will be sent to the various entities (communities, rescue zones, police zones, etc.).). Use agreements are also being developed and will be disseminated with the convention. These are, for example, agreements on who can activate a logbook, who can manipulate the card, etc. Although there is no obligation at this time, the goal is to work together in a multidisciplinary manner in emergency planning and crisis management. It would be a shame not to participate. We receive requests to make it mandatory to encourage this collaboration. If, for the time being, this is not yet on the agenda, it is not, however, excluded in the future. This will depend on the responses of the municipalities to this offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is no doubt that this platform is well-founded. It is very useful and the PLANUs are waiting for it with great impatience. It was announced for the beginning of the year but there is not yet a full activation of the entire platform. You said that training would take place in a few months' time, but it's pretty imprecise. We would have liked it to be proposed more quickly because it is really expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u39	Madam President, for almost 10 years now, the municipalities have been legally required to draw up an emergency and response plan (PUI) and to have at least one official in charge of emergency planning, commonly referred to as a "Planu official". Despite the fact that the current regulations are very little explicit on the role and tasks of these UNVs, it must be recognized that they are responsible for carrying out many tasks on behalf of the authority and the Security Cell. And, obviously, they will be increasingly solicited. Some of these tasks may require a field visit by PLANUs to meet with other emergency planning stakeholders. In the event of a crisis, PLANUs must meet with the authority and the Coordinating Committee in order to be able to carry out the required tasks. Such movements may require the use of police or other persons responsible for limiting or blocking access to a specific area within which the Community or Provincial Crisis Centre may be located. Unfortunately, in fact, it turns out that some PLANUs have already been restrained or even prevented from joining their authority, on the pretext that they have no means of identification or accreditation, unlike other people such as firefighters, police officers, paramedics or even journalists. A few years ago, the communes received different chasubles for their communal staff who had to intervene as Deputy Dir-Log/Dir-Log or Deputy Dir-lnfo/Dir-lnfo. On the other hand, nothing was provided for PLANUs, local psychosocial coordinators (LSCs) and other stakeholders acting under the Psychosocial Intervention Plan. It is my responsibility that the Governor of Namur Province has taken the initiative to have accreditation cards made, in order to solve mobility problems by giving legitimacy to these people. Minister, considering that regulations related to emergency planning are a federal matter, that there is a need to ensure consistency and consistency within the national territory, and that it is appropriate to facilitate the recognition of UNVs, it would be appropriate to provide them and their assistants with an accreditation card and an identification chasuble. What do you intend to do to meet this need and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u40	Ms. Poncelet, the role of the emergency planning official is indeed very succinctly described in the Royal Order of February 16, 2006 on Emergency and Response Plans. In reality, we find that the role of the Emergency Planning Officer has developed significantly over the past 11 years in many municipalities. The Royal Decree, which deals primarily with emergency planning and local crisis management, is currently being reviewed in close collaboration with local authorities and disciplines, in particular with a view to better matching the role of the emergency planning officer to reality. With regard specifically to this role, workshops were held on 17 and 23 June 2016 with municipal and provincial emergency planning officials and with the heads of the disciplines. Several proposals submitted at these workshops were selected and will form the basis for a working meeting to be held the day after tomorrow on 30 March. The objective is to translate these proposals into a concrete and realistic description of the content of the function and possible roles of the Emergency Planning Officer. An emergency planning officer does not have an assistant. Currently, the Emergency Planning Officer should not travel to the response area. He must, however, have the opportunity to go to the Communal Coordination Committee. At these workshops, I also learned that there are sometimes problems with access controls on crisis management premises. The proposal of my services therefore consists, in the framework of a new royal decree, of integrating into this royal decree a national-level access card for the emergency planning official. However, a specific chasuble for the emergency planning officer is not planned and, in my view, is of no use. Chasubles are provided for in emergency planning to recognize the directors of disciplines and services in the field of response, but not in the coordination committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u41	Minister, thank you for that clarification. We'll wait for the changes. The PLANU have, however, told me of their impatience. I'm glad they can get an access card. Nevertheless, for chasubles, it's a shame. Indeed, the profession will continue to evolve. As you said, it has changed dramatically in eleven years. Of course, the situation is not always very serious, but the chasuble would be useful to them when they go on mission. That's, at least, what they bring me back. So I can only encourage you to speed up this part of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 17525 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir 17527 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u43	Mr Minister, the audit of the General Inspection of the Federal Police and the local police on the 2016 removal orders is absolutely worthy of follow-up; you know that, too. That report came out a few months ago. We have had a discussion on this, and the criticism is no less. It contains a number of recommendations and we need to address them. These are findings about inappropriate behaviour, applying for sexual services, alcohol abuse and so on. The conclusions are in themselves far-reaching, but it is striking that the level of detail is rather limited in the 2016 report. That's kind of weird. What is the state of affairs in order to have a real view of the scale of the problem? I understand a new investigation was ordered to dig a little bit more into what's actually going on. A first question I am asking is why this was not immediately examined in the 2016 report, as was actually the case in a similar administrative inquiry in 2006? A lack of leadership in the service is also identified. To what extent will that be remedied? I also have a number of questions relating to the 2006 report. Of course, we all know that you were not a minister at the time. It's about your predecessors, about people you may never have known from your current position. However, there are questions that we must ask. How can you explain that a number of conclusions from the 2016 report are actually still the same as those from the 2006 report? In other words, very little seems to have changed in this service. Can you explain what has happened and to what extent the problems have been addressed between 2006 and 2016? What steps have been taken? Why, in your estimation, could not the 2006 criticism be met in those ten years? Finally, do there exist different versions of the 2006 report? If so, what is the reason for the adjustments? In the latest version, which was handed over to the then Minister of the Interior, all references to executives would have been deleted. Sometimes people with names and names are involved. They have been removed from the report handed over to politics. That is very bitter, knowing that ten years later, many of the problems identified at the time have still not been addressed and that the situation has still not improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u44	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, firstly, it is important to distinguish between an audit and an administrative inquiry. In view of the different finality, the methods used for their implementation are also clearly different. In carrying out an audit, the auditors shall assess, by means of a methodology based on an international reference framework, the implementation of the organisation's processes according to legal standards and quality standards. They shall draw the auditor's attention to the risks that prevent the organisation's objective from being met. So that's an audit. The purpose of an administrative inquiry is to determine the extent to which staff have committed errors or deficiencies. The audit is therefore more about working procedures and processes, which are audited. This may lead to recommendations requiring an administrative inquiry. The 2016 audit report literally states: "There are very strong suspicions of inappropriate behaviour, which are separate from the removal orders in themselves, for example the application of sexual services during shipments abroad, fraud in the preparation of administrative documents, alcohol abuse, blackmail. Such behaviour, regardless of its size, can cause major damage to the organisation and professionalism and demonstrates a blurring of standards." If clear, concrete facts had been established, the auditors would have informed the judicial authorities and/or the disciplinary authorities; that is their role. An audit does not aim to dig deeper and look for evidence. However, the audit findings concerning very strong suspicions of inappropriate behaviour are too important not to mention. It shows the risk derivatives of a culture of normal blurring. The fact that there is a perception of inappropriate behavior is also a risk in itself. The preliminary investigation requested by the Federal Police Commissioner General in the framework of disciplinary legislation is ongoing. On the basis of the audit, which shows serious evidence, it can be said that more in-depth research is required. For your information, this investigation is conducted by staff of the Executive Board of Individual Investigations and not by the auditors who carried out the audit. The Halle-Vilvoorde District Court instructed the P Committee to investigate any criminal offences. Two studies are therefore under way: an internal examination by the Department of Individual Investigations and one by the P Committee. As far as your next question is concerned, of course, the follow-up phase is an essential part of the implementation of an audit. Specifically, on the basis of the audit report, the federal police have developed an improvement path to respond to the various recommendations set out in the audit report. The recommendations on leadership are of course included. This improvement process will be followed at regular intervals on the basis of agreed timing between the federal police and the General Inspection. I am now talking about the 2016 audit report, which is a follow-up and is regularly followed up, including by the General Inspection. The following measures have already been taken. There is a new hierarchical line with a new leader at the head of the aviation police Zaventem. As a result of internal order measures taken within the LPA at Brunat, the national airport, and the Disposal Service, three staff are temporarily absent. They were removed from there as a result of the audit. The Border Control Service rearranged the services so that the staff can no longer book their own individual escorts. The local manager should monitor compliance with the measures taken in note DIR/LPA2017.300. A supervisor was appointed to accompany the LPA Brunat/GC/Destructions service and to ensure that an improvement plan is drawn up. He shall, where necessary, recommend immediate management measures. Following the exit route up to and including the customs post, or banning the delivery of cash or alcohol as a business gift are examples of this. The daily management remains in the hands of the existing hierarchy. In the meantime, four staff, two task force and two BOC (Special Consultation Committees) meetings were held in which the audit was discussed. These meetings also clearly communicated what can and cannot be done in the workplace. An initial discussion took place with the Foreign Affairs Office on the audit and their part in promoting an ethical culture. The audit has been made available internally to all escorts and also to each trade union through the Basic Consultation Committee 198 under Article 59 of the syndicated law, the degree of confidentiality. With regard to the follow-up table of the 13 strategic recommendations, an initial attempt was already made to identify pilots and copilots. The latter will, for example, be able to convene a working group of its own to consider and define the necessary actions for each recommendation. A note clearly states that returning escorts should follow the normal exit route and thus not circumvent customs controls, and that it is prohibited, even at the request of the Foreign Affairs Office, to hand over alcohol or cash to officials in third countries during a removal order. The correct distribution of the escorts is monitored monthly by the Chief of Police Border Control. The LPA-direction is in the process of adapting directives, including the Foreign Orders Note LPA and the new protocol between the federal police and the Foreign Affairs Service. These are criteria for business flights and, for example, safety, well-being, workload and non-small surcharge or duration of the outward flight. Then there are the context data that recommend a moderate and constructive approach: the current assignment and workload, for example new perimeter security, the special emergency and intervention plan or BNIP, the commemoration of the attacks of 22 March; the Trump visit in May 2017; the higher objectives 2017 on repatriation and integration and formation of a large number of new recruits. There is the fact that many escorts feel uncomfortable today, because the suspected facts were committed by a minority and according to their perception in the past. The audit says that they do their job well and do not want to pay for past mistakes. However, they understand that better management measures are needed to reduce the exposure to criticism and increase transparency. The individual mistakes must be investigated by the government and the perpetrators addressed or prosecuted. The current leadership should have time to catch up with 20 years of delays in management. That requires time and perseverance. Leaders must be supported to make improvements in the future. There is no part of the operation of the Zaventem police, where there is no crisis delay in management, apart from removals. The audit 2016 steering board recommendations will serve as a follow-up tool, once approved and established by June 2017, but we must not forget that the PMI and GC operation can also be improved. This explains why there is some resistance from LPA, i.e. the aviation police in Zaventem, to start project-wise, given their view that there is a lack of framework to initiate additional management projects above the operational projects. The supervisor will further facilitate this. The future attitude of the syndicated partners towards the improvements will be a key success factor. It is very difficult to estimate whether or not it will be supportive. For the steering board recommendations audit 2016 I can tell you that as far as possible the following planning has been set out. In March 2017, the pilots and the copilots will be appointed, by recommendation. In April and May 2017, initiatives will be launched by pilots and copilots: analysis, consultation, editing and working groups. In May and June of this year, a proposal of actions will be presented to the Steering Committee by the pilots. In June 2017, the Chair of the Steering Committee will submit to the AIG the set of tasks and actions and will finalise them. After that there will be a semesterial follow-up, in June and December, until June 2019. As regards the formation of new escorts, it is clear from ANPA that the function of escort removals is included in the Royal Decree of 10 October 2014 as a job for which a special competence is required and considered to be such by ANPA. In 2015, 11 escorts were trained. The internship of the last escort was completed in January of this year. In particular, the period during which they have to take their four internships takes a very long time for organisational reasons. Two candidates participated in the selection in 2016. One of them has succeeded and is awaiting training. The events on 22 March 2016 with all the consequences of that have thrown sooty into the food. A new call was made in the autumn of 2016. In the meantime, 13 candidates have already applied. These 13 are eligible for the next selection procedure, as soon as it can be initiated by the Executive Board. Fourthly, the version handed over to Parliament for inspection concerns the final version of the AIG report. That version was requested from the AIG in response to Parliament's request for access. The AIG formally confirms to me that the version delivered to the Minister at the time in 2006 counted 28 pages. Other versions including one that counted 53 pages were only internal working documents. The document delivered by the AIG to the Minister at the time in 2006 is also the document that I delivered to Parliament after the audit fuss. Apparently there is also a working document, which was wider, but which was not delivered by the AIG as a final report. Following the press releases published this morning, including the fact that the report would have been deliberately censored, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, after the publication of the report in 2007 and 2008, the P Committee carried out an investigation into an administrative investigation carried out by the AIG. So there's been an investigation of the investigation. The P Committee requested and examined all the documents giving rise to the final report with the conclusions. At the beginning of 2009, the Standing Committee P decided in plenary to classify the dossier. Those are the facts I've been able to figure out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I have some observations. First, it appears that the 2016 audit was serious enough to launch a number of additional investigations, a criminal investigation and an investigation by the Department of Individual Investigations. Secondly, the improvements made since 2006 were apparently not sufficient to make such a critical, negative audit report 2016 impossible. The 2016 audit report was therefore critical enough to ask the questions as to how in ten years time the matter could not be dealt with on the substance and how certain findings at system level and methodological level have actually remained the same as in the 2006 administrative investigation. That's another question I'm addressing to you. How come after those ten years such a negative audit report 2016 was still possible? I have a second question. I do know that the 2006 report was the final report handed over to the then Minister for the Interior, which was made available to Parliament and which was also of concern to you. However, it is very strange that there is apparently a version that is exactly the same as the official version, with the only difference that there are a number of short passages that indicate the responsibility and involvement of executives. The only difference is that responsibilities are assigned in the pre-final, uncensored version. Even a name is mentioned. It is therefore not a question of labeling the report, as the General Inspection apparently does, as a working document, since the only difference is that there are short and to the point responsibilities assigned there. I can understand that the P Committee has classified this, but I would like to ask you, Minister, if it is not worthwhile asking for the preliminary version of the report, with the only difference that it clearly assigns responsibilities, so that you can see clearly where the possible responsibilities lie and what lessons can be learned from the past in order to do better in the future. I also think it is a punishment that the General Inspectorate is apparently finalising a report merely by abandoning a number of responsibilities and executives, by name and by name. Is that what happens in other reports? Politics must be able to count on a neutral, independent General Inspection, which does not simply remove the responsibilities of executives, which was the only thing that was deleted and then gives the Minister a clean version. The then Minister of the Interior would have liked to know where the responsibilities lie. However, he has received almost exactly the same report which removed the responsibilities. Mr. Secretary, would you like to look into that further? Would you like to request the pre-final version of the report? Do you want to investigate what went wrong with the General Inspection? Why exactly was the report handed over to the then Minister of the Interior in which the responsibilities of the then leaders were removed? If possible, therefore, I would like to receive an answer to these additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u46	Do you wish to answer these questions, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u47	What would have gone wrong, I believe it is the responsibility of the then federal police summit and the custody minister to see what he has done with it. It's hard for me to take back the film of history. That is somewhat in line with your second question. I can do two cases now. Either examine why and so on, knowing that an investigation of the P Committee has already been carried out. Either to say that I take the most recent audit to heart and try to correct the current abuses as quickly as possible. Together with the Commissioner-General of the police, I have chosen the second and say that, if there is any reason to think that the abuses are there, we will deal with them. I think I've given an impressive list of things that have already been put on track, so we'll straighten that situation out. What the situation is today and what the situation of 2006, 2007 and 2008 was, the politics has tools to monitor it. Parliament has done so, with the P Committee, and used it at the time. I assume that there was or could have been a debate with the P Committee on the reason why it was classified. To be honest, I do not see the point of spending a great deal of time on this, in order to find out what the then AIG has done in this area. In the meantime, all these people have been replaced. Under the assumption that there are still the same people working there as then, questions could be asked about trust in the current AIG as to whether the AIG is working properly. In the meantime, however, all those concerned have been replaced. There are other people working now. In the current AIG, which I have to work with, I do have faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u48	Minister, unless, of course, the problem at the General Inspection goes wider than those two people. I don't think the way this goes down is normal. I believe that we should be able to count on a General Inspection which is very independent and very correct. What happened there, I don't think it's normal. We could have learned from the assigned responsibilities. This isn't about any additional investigations into the Department of Removals. I believe that the problem focuses on what has happened in the General Inspectorate. Are we sure that this has only to do with the two people who are now retired? I would therefore ask you to look into this further. We need to be able to fully trust those reports from the General Inspectorate. Reports are often drawn up and I would not like there to be a problem at organisational level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u49	I have no problem, I always apply that transparency. I have my contacts with the AIG, but why can't the Home Affairs Committee even invite the responsible AIG to ask about the way in which it works and ask whether it can be trusted? You can address the P Committee. I have no problem with an investigation being carried out by the controlling power in that area. I'm open to that. I can only say that as a member of the executive and responsible for the executive, I answer the question of whether I can have confidence in those people, yes. I can come to the conclusion that my answer does not convince you enough. There are methods to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u50	One more sentence. I believe that the control of what exactly went wrong must be carried out in two ways: on the one hand, through you as the Minister responsible, on the other hand, through Parliament. I will take an initiative on this shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u51	If I may also say something about this, since all the regulations here are not being respected. You can also do a forensic audit because you say that an audit can never investigate this. You can do this in line with the results of an audit. I think audits are extremely important, as I explained in committee. My experience with audits focuses on the extent to which recommendations or observations are followed. That is often the big problem: one has a report and it flies in the closet without systematic work being done. This is, of course, also a function of the General Inspection, which will then have to look at the extent to which the recommendations that have been made are being continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u52	Mrs De Coninck, I have just mentioned this in my reply. That machine is installed. The General Inspectorate has been instructed to follow up and reports on progress to the Commissioner-General every six months. So there's a board table. On the basis of that board table, the LPA is reported to the Commissioner-General every six months, not by the LPA but by the General Inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic630x.u53	That is good news, but in the decalage between 2006 and now something must have gone wrong.
