ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u1	Madam Minister, my question has been made more topical again by some initiatives in the government, but also by certain recent reports in the newspaper. It's about transgenders. We can see that more people are expressing themselves as transgender, that the taboo is a bit broken. However, this significant increase leads to waiting lists for the gender team in the UZ Gent, where transgenders can go for treatment. In 2015, there were 296 transgenders who had applied for an operation leading to gender change. Ten years ago, there were only 30. We're really seeing a rise there. This is due to positive role models and information on the subject, which is being better disseminated. There are good initiatives, such as the website of Transgender Infopunt. There it is also found that the UZ Ghent is currently the only hospital with a multidisciplinary team that fully succeeds the transition. The waiting period for a sex operation, which 70 percent of patients ultimately choose, can apparently reach two years today. As a result, many transgenders compile their journey themselves, otherwise they have to wait too long for their first conversation with the psychologist. As a result, they do not appear in the statistics. Furthermore, they often have less quality care. For example, some people are prescribed hormones by doctors who do not have the necessary expertise. That is why I have some questions for you, Madam Secretary. You announced that you would release 1.17 million euros for the psychological guidance of transgenders by January 2017. These new resources would be welcome, so that new psychologists could be recruited to provide quality care again. Is that amount still reserved and in the meantime also earmarked? Will there be other multidisciplinary teams in other hospitals or is it really the intention to maintain centralization in Ghent for the time being?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u2	Mrs Van Peel, the budget that was foreseen is still there. The preparatory work to roll out this quality is currently in the final phase. In fact, a RIZIV agreement has been drawn up within the College of Doctors-Directors of the National Sickness and Invalidity Insurance Office. Among other things, discussions were held with experts from institutions that have a transgender programme, such as the Ghent University Hospital, but also the CHU of Liège. The aim is indeed to use resources effectively at some centres with a great deal of expertise, as they are a limited target group requiring a highly specialised and holistic approach. We must also avoid the medicalisation of this problem of transgenders. That is why I am primarily committed to the necessary psychological support. A conflicted centre is expected to develop a care path, involving all facilities within a network. These facilities are not always hospitals. For example, it is clear that aftercare should not always be offered in the conventional centre itself. These care paths are already referred to on the website of Transgender Infopunt. I also expect that other hospitals might develop specialised care in the future. Only that requires a whole team of people with all kinds of different formations. This has grown over the years in the Ghent hospital and in the CHU Liège. What is not can yet come, but I do not expect this to be developed in a very small hospital, where few people can go. Of course, there is also the research work on the need for care of those people. That's very topical. Through the university they continue to carry out the necessary research. I believe that it is also important that the issue should be addressed at an academic level, which was in its infancy until recently. Psychological support is very important, because we already notice that some people have made some kind of decision too quickly and now opt for the reverse movement. That is not only physically very difficult, but also psychologically difficult. We want to avoid that. We also see that applicants are getting younger. That has a good side, because especially men are hormonal than less developed. On the other hand, the fragility of that group is much greater and must be properly monitored psychologically. Once the agreement is in place, it will also be implemented immediately. The money's here, but we're gonna have to make a deal. This has really worked well, also with the people on the ground. Are there any more centers coming? Some mention a long waiting list. However, I also hear the opposite claim, namely that patients are called with the announcement that their intervention can be brought forward. Not everyone follows the same steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The waiting lists are in fact mainly in the case of psychological guidance. You are right to commit to this, and that is good: not only words, but also deeds. That's how we know you. If medalisation is taken away, an initiative of the government with a design to ensure that one can change sex without surgery, then that is a good step. I also follow your view that it is about a limited group, for which it is better to work with a few centralized areas of expertise, without developing the range of care in this area everywhere. That's what's good for the care. Thank you for your answer and for your work on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u4	Colleagues, I apologize for my late arrival, but I had to attend a funeral in my commune. We come to point 7 of our agenda, being the joint questions of Mrs Fonck, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Van Peel and Mr Blanchart on the Euthanasia Evaluation Committee. I'll let you know we're getting them next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u5	Mr. Blanchart is on his way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u6	We can wait for her, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u7	If everyone agrees, we'll wait for him. Ms. Van Camp requested that her questions be deferred. Of these, a few have already been postponed last week. The questions concerned will be transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u8	Madam Minister, there is a new trend in dental practice: companies buy practices or create new ones and thus form chains. Examples are Dentius and Benedenti. They clearly aim for a large turnover and profit; for that they are also companies. They therefore make dental care a commercial product. What is striking is that they are mainly interested in expensive interventions, because they bring the most benefits. That is, of course, worrying, because that puts enormous pressure on the dentists, who have not already been sown thickly. The Flemish association of dentists has also expressed its concern. There is also a quote from them in the written version of my question. Madam Minister, it is clear that this will reduce access to dental care. There are many factors, such as the ageing of dentists, but now also privatisation or, rather, commercialisation with, among other things, the reimbursement of implants. Are you for or against the chaining of dental practices? If you are in favour of a liberal principle, how can you guarantee that there will be no two-speed dental care, one for whom it can afford and one for whom it cannot afford? If you are opposed, will you take action? If so, which one? Secondly, what do you think of multidisciplinary group practices, such as district health centres where dentists are also integrated? In this way, they would reach the most vulnerable. Finally, I have a question about the ageing of dentists and the follow-up problems. Are there recent figures of the number of successful candidate medical students who ultimately opt for dentistry compared to the previous ten years? After all, it looks like it's becoming an extinct profession. Together with this commercialization, I am concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u9	Mrs. Dedry, in our country there is a free establishment of dental practices. It is not prohibited anywhere that practices work together. In this context, I would also like to refer to the reform referred to in the law on the exercise of health professions. A preliminary draft law on healthcare practice will be drawn up imposing generic quality, continuity and permanence conditions, regardless of where the care is provided. The law and the resulting implementing decisions will therefore provide a framework of equal quality, both in hospitals and in private practice and in so-called private clinics. They also apply to individual or group-based healthcare professionals, to health care professionals employed in a hospital or other recognised healthcare institution and also to health care professionals employed in so-called private clinics, which are indeed in full swing and where complex care is often provided. The Planning Committee is already following the ageing of active professionals very closely. I refer here to the publication "PlanCad Dentists 2004-2012," in which the situation of dentists in the Belgian labour market is detailed. Even now, this is part of the work of the Planning Committee. All reports for the three special professional titles in dentistry can also be found at the address consultation bodies.health.belgie.be. You will also find a synthesis report "Tandartsen" on the labour market. You had a question about dentists for district health centers. It is up to the district health centres themselves to determine which doctors or paramedics they attract for the health centre. I have no opinion on that. The centers that find that interesting for their audience can attract a dentist. If a dentist lives next door, it might be less interesting, or he could still be recruited. Then, of course, he must also work on the conditions of the district health centres. That will be a more difficult point, because dentists now work by fee, while doctors in district health centres get a bet. You might want to check how many dentists work at a district health center. That will not be many, because the reward is the stumbling block; there are certainly no legal objections. Your question about success rates is interesting, but I cannot answer it because the success rates for dental examinations are the responsibility of the Communities. I can't answer that, it's not my jurisdiction. Otherwise, I will have to deal with Mr Marcourt. I must therefore refer you to my fellow Members in the Länder, from whom you can obtain these figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u10	Thank you. The website you're quoting seems interesting to me. I'll look into that and I'll get the answer later. It'll be a little easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I would like once again to refer to the implementation of the Act regulating mental health professions, which clearly poses a wide range of problems. I learn from various sources that insurance companies and brokers today decide to suspend or terminate contracts in civil liability for certain professionals practising psychotherapy. The reasons given are the law that you voted for before the holidays, in particular its transitional measures. Madam Minister, has there been any consultation with your colleague, Mr Peeters, in this context? Do you think the reaction of insurance companies and brokers is justified? Do you feel that there is a need to clarify certain elements with respect to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u12	Madam Minister, my question focuses on another aspect of the law on mental health professions. The Constitutional Court has suspended Article 11 of that law. According to the Constitutional Court, sufficient transitional arrangements were not provided for for persons exercising the profession of clinical psychologist or psychotherapist. How do you respond to that arrest? What measures have you developed in the meantime? Will you change the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u13	Minister, I come back to this law, given the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 22 December, which is implacable. Not only does it suspend article 11 of the Act of 10 July 2016, but it clearly notes the absence of a transitional provision on psychotherapy practitioners. As I said at the time of the committee's consideration of the bill, such a measure would have avoided rebarring them with a backhand. I quote the Court: "This scheme seems to directly and negatively affect the situation of the applicants, both those who are permanently excluded from the practice of psychotherapy and those who can no longer exercise it autonomously". In the debate on this bill, remember, minister, I raised this completely unacceptable aspect of your bill. The Constitutional Court only confirms my position. I had even tabled an amendment on the transitional regime to offer to all persons who are not health professionals, but who are already psychotherapy, the possibility of continuing to practise this activity independently, provided that they receive an authorization by a commission set up to evaluate each case individually, on the basis of the training and experience acquired by the person requesting it. I can only regret that the majority absolutely does not want to hear about the essential questions coming from the opposition. But here, the Constitutional Court is right. Madam Minister, I cannot but deplore your irresponsibility in this regard, when our criticisms have been clearly argued, but also that of some colleagues who are attending such debates without even being interested in the content. Minister, the ball is now on your side. Several providers, but also patients, are involved. How are you going to deal with this situation quickly, I hope? I would like to resubmit my proposal to you. If it had been accepted, we would not be here today. Excuse me, but I can only blame you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u14	Minister, during an inquiry on November 16, I asked you for clarification on the definition of psychotherapy, on who could claim, or not, psychotherapist; and I urged you to correct the transitional provisions that were deemed discriminatory. I had tabled a motion to amend and adapt situations. It was rejected. On 22 December, the Constitutional Court abolished article 11 on the grounds that the so-called transitional measures did not constitute a genuine transitional regime for persons who, prior to the entry into force of that law, practised psychotherapy. Minister, can you clarify the procedure that you are going to put in place to take into account this ruling of the Constitutional Court and to allow people who were practising psychotherapy before September 1, 2016 to continue to exercise it under similar conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u15	By judgment of 22 December 2016, the Constitutional Court granted only the request for suspension pending a judgment on the substance of the request for destruction. This means that currently Article 11 of the Law of 10 July 2016 has been suspended, but only in so far as it does not provide for a transitional regime for persons who already exercised psychotherapeutic practice before the entry into force of that Law. The rest of the article, as well as the other provisions, remain in full force. It is now up to the councillor to determine what steps are possible to comply with the judgment. I would like to point out, Mrs Fonck, that there are transitional measures, but they are not broad enough under the judgment. You said that there was a lack of transitional measures. At present, every effort is being made to set up the Federal Council for mental health professions as soon as possible. For this purpose, representative professional associations should first be appointed and then members appointed. Once the federal council has been set up, one can also work on the further implementation of the law. The Federal Council is an important advisory body, which is required to deliver an opinion on all matters relating to the exercise of mental health professions or the exercise of psyschot therapy. In other words, without the federal council, the law cannot be enforced. The President and the Vice-President had to be appointed by me, which has now happened. Since there is a suspension, all persons concerned, including those for whom it does not apply, the transitional measures provided for in the law, may continue to act as before. As a result, the issue of insurability and citizen responsibility is irrelevant. In case of questions from insurers, our services are always willing to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u16	Madam President, I cannot say that the Minister has fully answered the questions that were addressed to her, particularly with regard to the consultation with her colleague, Mr Peeters, in the context of the reaction of insurance companies and brokers. I will come back with a written question for additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u17	I agree with Mr Senesael. I have not really received an answer to the question as to what direction you are going with your adjustments. That is absolutely not clear to me. So I too will return to that on another occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u18	Minister, you claim that the bill contained transitional measures. Yes, indeed, but I persist and I sign: there was no one who was likely to apply to people practicing psychotherapy. The bill no longer allowed them, overnight, to practice this art autonomously, regardless of their expertise acquired in the field and sometimes supplemented by ad hoc training. It is in this respect that I point out your responsibility. You did not want to hear anything during the discussions, when we warned you of the opinion that would be given by the Constitutional Court. It was written in advance, I can tell you! Two months after the judgment of the Court, you serve us a hollow answer and a gloomy banality. I can only note that you do not measure your responsibilities. In addition, you do not make arrangements that fall within your jurisdiction. I expected you, today, to recognize your lack of attention - a little bit of humility in politics, it can do everyone good!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u19	Everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u20	Yes, Madam Minister, but I warned you!.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u21	(...) to everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u22	I think I have the floor! In a parliament, we take the floor in turn. I could remind you, but I did not, what was said during the discussions and the amendments tabled. You have the opportunity to respond to the Constitutional Court. You may, at least, have the decency to recognize your error and correct it quickly. Several people are involved. Behind these psychotherapists, there are also patients. Sometimes I wonder if that's your main concern. I therefore ask you once again to move forward quickly on this matter. Legal solutions already exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u23	Madam Minister, seven to eight months after its adoption, the law cannot come into force – which should have been the case on September 1 – because the Federal Council is not yet being implemented. We have had many discussions on transitional measures and have stressed what the Constitutional Court highlights in its opinion. I also expected your answers to be more committed. Here I see that not only do we have to wait for the law to come into force, but you have not developed an answer, and there has been no reflection on it. I am going back to these transitional measures. Some people currently work independently as a psychotherapist. Patients are referred to them. They are sometimes engaged in institutions. They work independently. However, with the transitional measures that you have proposed, these people can no longer exercise their profession as such. No one knows how to do it; and not everyone is willing to hire them, and to hire them subordinately, since this was not their original contract and these are not their place and role. I can only confirm also my disappointment at your answer. We will probably come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u24	I'm going to go back on the agenda. If I'm not asked to postpone a question or to turn it into a written question and if I'm not asked to wait, if we don't arrange for the person to be there when I'm quoting someone, I'm not sure. I can't watch all the time for everything to happen as everyone wishes. We come back to item 7 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u25	Madam President, have we planned a debate in which we will hear from the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia at Parliament level or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u26	Of course. You all know that because the agenda has been set for a month. Next week, we receive the Euthanasia assessment committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u27	This question has not just been tabled; it has been before I receive this information. Minister, I imagine you have read the report of the Federal Commission. The question no longer makes much sense as the committee will be heard here. Some points seem important to me and I will come to them with the Federal Commission itself. A series of recommendations and suggestions are also made by the commission. It is also possible to find a number of points of inquiry. In order not to debate with you when the questions are addressed in part to the committee, I will address this issue broadly here. It is interesting that you give us your analysis of this report. This will obviously be an integral part of next week's debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u28	Consider that you are questioning the minister and that next week it is the commission that we are hearing. Be brief and address your questions only to the Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u29	Madam President, I have tabled two questions, one on the monitoring of the euthanasia law and one on the report of the control committee, on which we will hear more next week. My question about the control of the euthanasia law is based on an opinion piece by doctors and ethicists in De Standaard, asking for the euthanasia law to be evaluated uninhibited. On the positive side, no one asked for the euthanasia law to be stricter, but it was felt that the difficulties needed to be addressed. In the meantime, it was really time to have that debate. It was also found that there was under-registration. That was, in short, the content of the opinion document. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion on sub-registration? What do you want and can you do about it? In your opinion, should we not move towards a committee that gives its opinion in advance on psychological problems, but not afterwards? It also calls for better communication and calls for a psychiatrist from the multidisciplinary team to be part of such a committee. A second set of questions concerns a new report from the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee Euthanasia. The figures in the previous and the new reports are difficult to compare, because dementia has been validated in a different way and a different definition has been included. It will be very difficult to conduct the discussion on psychological suffering properly if the definitions of the concepts in the two reports are changed. We can then no longer compare. The figures are not clear now, which is very annoying. Will you ask the FEE to avoid such confusion in the future and agree on a unambiguous categorization that always applies? The rest will be discussed next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u30	Madam Secretary, I will not repeat everything. Mr Dedry's paper of opinion also gave rise to this question. For the record, we certainly do not want to question the law. By such a law it is better to evaluate too much once again than once too little, because this is about the most essential of being human. One point in the opinion document was not raised by Mr Dedry, just what I found most shocking, in addition to what she did mention. There was also criticism from these ethicists and doctors about the functioning of the committee itself. That was mainly about the fact that they said she was acting like a court of law. I'll explain. According to them, the law states that it is necessary to check whether the legal conditions were met, while the committee also approves cases where not all but only the essential conditions were met. That would be an interpretation. On the other hand, it also measures the role of legislator, by repeatedly interpreting the law and thus extending the scope of the law. That is a serious criticism and it is important to respond to it, Madam Minister. I am thinking back to the extensive debate that preceded the legislation, which rightly resulted in a balanced text, with what it should contain. It is absolutely not my intention to question the law, on the contrary, but with such comments from doctors and ethicists, and in that number, I am beginning to ask myself the question of the implementation of the law and the role played by the committee. I am very pleased that those involved will come to the committee next week, but I would like to ask you, as Minister, how you look at such an opinion document and such criticism. How do you analyze that? We are talking about important issues here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u31	Mr President, I will therefore join the President's proposal and be very brief since I am not a member of the committee and I am now learning that the Monitoring Committee will come to present its report next week. So I will just get the minister's vision of the report's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u32	Mr President, I believe that Mr Blanchart's question concerning the support and reception of refugees from Sudan has arrived by mistake. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u33	The recently published seventh biennial report of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia contains far more data than the previous reports and aims, in particular, to make the practice of euthanasia in our country transparent, both for the authorities and for the general public. In the meantime, Mrs Dedry, another finer method of research may be used, which means that it is not possible to put all the figures together. Then it will be difficult for a year, just as it was in the case of the changeover from the franc to the euro. I assume it will be easier next year, at least if it is not changed again. The new feature of this report is the use of the ICD-10 (International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems). The purpose of this coding is to classify diseases that cause euthanasia in the correct category. As Ms. Fonck said, the number of euthanasias registered for psychiatric diseases has not increased over the past four years. For 2014 and 2015, they account for 3.1% of all returns. Analysis of euthanasia reports for these psychiatric patients has shown that the examination of such a request for euthanasia is very complex and time-consuming. This time must allow the physician to ensure that the patient's request is consistent, voluntary and well informed, as prescribed by law. The conditions laid down in the law must all be fulfilled and the patient must be in a medical situation without outcome, and must report a constant and unbearable mental suffering which cannot be soothed and which results from a serious and incurable accidental or pathological disorder. All recognized therapeutic possibilities must therefore be exhausted. Independent physician advice plays a very important role in the application clarification process, as the vast majority of patients do not die in the near future. Two opinions are necessary, at least one of which must come from a psychiatrist. The analysis of the registration documents found that the two opinions almost always come from two psychiatrists, indicating a major concern to conduct the review in depth. The Audit and Evaluation Committee should examine minutely all reports of cases of euthanasia, including those relating to euthanasia based on a psychiatric condition. If necessary, the Committee shall also request further information from the treating physician. As required by law, the committee's report is primarily intended for Parliament. The committee was also set up by Parliament. The Chamber is obviously master of its work. The discussion of the biennial report next week does indeed seem a good opportunity to take stock of our legislation on end-of-life issues and euthanasia. Several fellow Members also argued in favour of an evaluation of the law. We shall first wait for the debate on 22 February here in committee. The precise mandate of the euthanasia committee, which is also determined by law, may also be the subject of this debate. Public health has only provided administrative support to this committee, as was requested at the time. For the rest, this committee must comply with the law. It must therefore follow, in honour and conscience, the processes prescribed by law. It is up to the members of the Chamber to check next week whether that is the case, after reading the report and evaluating it. Mrs Van Peel, you mentioned those opinion papers. In response to each piece of opinion, five other pieces of opinion can be written. You also need to find out from whom, from what angle, those pieces come. We know that this has resulted in heated discussions in the past. I do recognize certain players in that. Of course, everyone has the right to express their opinion, but I think it is more important to go back to the basis, to the report that is before us, and to examine whether there are indeed gaps or improvements. If we are to carry out an evaluation of the whole law in itself and if we want to remedy it, then we have left again for a number of years. That law didn't come from one day to the next. After this composition in the Chamber there will be another. I am convinced that this dossier will last for several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u34	Madam Minister, I have gone through the report and to be quite sincere, I have a whole series of questions about how certain information is given. It is obviously important to know the legislation on this data and how it is applied. First of all, I will listen to the commission and the members who will be representing the federal euthanasia review panel next week. They will probably have a number of clarifications to give. I will then come back to you with more specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u35	Thank you, Mrs Fonck, that is very wise and relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u36	Madam Minister, the comparison between the Belgian franc and the euro has been somewhat unfortunate. What matters most to me is that psychic suffering is the only point of contention in this, as far as I am concerned, good euthanasia law. If we start working with different registrations, with different categories per year, it feeds the opponents of the law. Then that does not happen on the basis of the content of the law. I expect you to correct that. We have a good law, and your opinion on this can be decisive. I certainly wouldn't want us to lose out on our good euthanasia law because of a lack of proper care. That was my concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u37	Madam Minister, I am not talking about that document of opinion, but about the vagueness that is often found in the committees, as in the reports. I want to make it very clear that I am not asking for an evaluation of the law. I support that law, the spirit of it and the way in which it has been drafted. Rather, I would ask for an in-depth assessment of the implementation of the law, which we will have the opportunity to do next week. That is something else; sometimes one has to dare to check whether the spirit that was put in at the time comes out enough. I will not go into the rest, because then, as you rightly said, we may have left for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u38	Minister, as you know, family planning centres are important places where everyone can find help in matters of sexual and emotional life. Based on the information I have been able to obtain from various mutual societies, it appears that the services or user tickets received by the centres are reimbursed to the holder by identification of the latter. Young people and women who do not want to tell their parents or partners that they have gone on a schedule are therefore no longer protected since the information can be included in the electronic records of mutual societies and in eHealth. Minister, what exactly about the reimbursement system in this context in terms of patient identification? While free care in family planning centres must, of course, be continued, specific attention must - I believe - be paid to the question of the anonymity of those visiting these centres. Are new initiatives envisaged to address this issue and thus enable the family planning centres to carry out their mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u39	Mrs Winckel, first of all, I must point out that my competence with regard to family planning centres relates only to the health care they provide, in the context of the nomenclature of health benefits and/or the convention for the medical and psychosocial support of unwanted pregnancies. The other activities of these plans fall within the competence of the Community or regional authorities. In all cases, it goes without saying that the centres and insurers (mutualities) of the beneficiaries are obliged to comply scrupulously with the legislation on the protection of personal data. The benefits reimbursed under the nomenclature, such as gynaecological consultations, do not pose any specific problems in this respect. Their confidentiality is guaranteed by this legislation. As regards the benefits provided under the Convention for the Accompaniment of Unwanted Pregnancy, concluded between certain family planning centres and INAMI, the Convention explicitly provides for strengthened provisions. According to Article 19, § 1, this agreement states: "In order to ensure the maximum respect for the privacy of the beneficiary, which is essential in the case of the benefits covered by this agreement, first of all, the centre undertakes to introduce itself, by means of the form approved by the Health Care Insurance Committee and after its signature, for the beneficiary, the application to the doctor-counsel of its insurer body and to pay itself the intervention of compulsory health care insurance directly with the insurer body and, where appropriate, to settle the personal intervention of the beneficiary directly with it and exclusively in cash." It is also stated that: "The insurer of the beneficiary undertakes to send any correspondence relating to the application and the intervention agreement to the centre, unless the beneficiary has explicitly wished to receive them elsewhere. It also undertakes to address any other correspondence relating to the benefits covered by this Agreement and made for the beneficiary to the address which it has informed, and which may also be the address of the centre." In other words, under the Convention for the Application of Accompaniment to Unwanted Pregnancys, the insurer of the beneficiary must send all correspondence relating to that agreement to the address chosen by the beneficiary itself, which may be the address of the contracted centre. It is important that there is no mail in his mailbox or in his parents or husband or elsewhere. The beneficiary's relatives are thus not informed of the care provided and reimbursed if they do not wish to do so. Furthermore, the eHealth platform does not have any information on the services provided under this agreement. It is in fact a closed system, regulated by agreement between INAMI and these centres, precisely to respect privacy and avoid sending various letters or advertising to the patient's home, if she did not want it. It must be told to the centres: patients can choose to receive their correspondence at the centre and not at home; perhaps this communication is missing. In the convention, we were very careful, to protect them, as you say. But the possibility exists in the convention, although perhaps it is not always clear to girls or women attending these centres who have not understood that it was up to them to say so. There may still be a lack of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, anonymity is guaranteed. For example, the parent of a youth being followed in a centre will not be able to learn from the medical record. We agree. Beyond correspondence, this applies even to acts taken. It reassures me. I had received contradictory information. Computerization of medical procedures and records is really a good thing. But it is important to be able to keep this confidentiality, in order to try to reach all people who may be free from care because their anonymity is not preserved. I'm glad to hear you. If I may, I agree with your conclusion. Centres should be informed as best they can about this confidentiality; and there should also be even more information for vulnerable people who may be reluctant to consult in a centre for any reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u41	Mr. Chair, you have performed your duties remarkably – not as well as the Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u42	Madam Minister, last March, my colleague Philippe Blanchart asked you about the opinion delivered by the Higher Council of Health (SHC), recommending that food supplements based on rice red yeast should become a "drug". Indeed, these contain an active substance of natural origin that is part of the class of statin molecules – which many men of my generation know. These are currently duly registered as medicines and widely used in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia and the prevention of cardiovascular disease. In addition, these supplements have all the characteristics of the medicine, whether by presentation or function. They are also subject to contraindications and have side effects similar to those observed for statins, requiring medical advice and follow-up. At the time of this exchange, you explained that you had entrusted this file to your administration for advice. You then had to make a decision as to what action to take. In this context, it is now apparent that other freely accessible supplements and preparations that are firmly affirmed as products with anti-cholesterol virtues continue to bloom on the market: mushroom extracts based supplements also containing a natural statin or phytosterol-based supplements. Minister, eight months later – almost the time of pregnancy – have you been able to receive a notice from your administration? Are measures envisaged for such food supplements and preparations? Will decisions be taken on their status? Should this type of product, in your opinion, be given more attention by, among other things, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS) in terms of its composition, efficacy, safety and positioning in the context of hypercholesterolaemia treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u43	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would first like to return to some historical elements. First of all, on this overwhelming report of the Supreme Council of Health, which on 3 February 2016 called for a pure and simple ban on the marketing of red rice yeast. Indeed, this product contains various substances, including monacoline K, identical to a statin, lovastatin, which has the same side effects, the same risks, including at all small doses. That's an important point. This report doesn't come from anywhere. Other scientific reports are overwhelming, notably that of the Agence nationale de sécurité santé en France, but also of other health authorities. All scientific publications and reports are converging. A week ago, a whole new study, with a big report of Italian pharmaco-nutri-vigilance, was published, in addition to numerous reports of French vigilance. As I have just said, all these scientific reports are implacable and overwhelming. They demonstrate that monacoline K, even at small doses, contained in red rice yeast, has toxic side effects. Moreover, the same recommendation is made by all these scientific authorities: prohibit this as a simple food supplement and, on the contrary, register it as a medicine. Despite these scientificly implacable reports, despite this convergent position of health authorities, including other countries, you bring your signature to the recognition of a dual status (food supplement and medicine). You often talk about evidence-based. I reply regularly: "Evidence-based, yes, but always, even when it doesn't work out for you politically." It is then that one must have the courage to respect evidence-based. When we have so many overwhelming reports, which go in the same direction, the fact that you can sign this recognition yourself with the possibility of seeing this product being sold as a simple food supplement without all the necessary guarantees and while it is toxic, even at small doses, has interlocked me. Three times, I wondered if I wasn't dreaming. This is totally contrary to evidence-based, scientific recommendations. Moreover, this is tantamount to taking unacceptable risks to the health of citizens. It is true that there is a telescopage between the publication of the last pharmacovigilance study (the Italian study) and the release of your directive, but I ask you the question: will you review your position and put an end to any confusion between this dietary supplement and the medicine which contains the same toxic product and therefore prohibit the over-the-counter sale of this product?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u44	Minister, I come directly to the questions. You have my text. Can you give us more information about the harmful effects of this red rice yeast? Should such preparations based on red rice and other food products or supplements not be subject to review by the Committee on Medicinal Products, as recommended by the Supreme Council of Health in order to give them a specific status and to enable effective protection of the patient?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u45	Mr Frédéric, Mrs Fonck, Mr Blanchart, red rice yeast products – the source of monacoline K – are currently being marketed as a food supplement in Belgium and other European countries. European Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 on nutrition and health claims on foodstuffs determines the claims that can be used as food supplements based on red rice yeast. Currently, the following claim is allowed for daily doses of at least 10 milligrams of monacoline K. Monacoline K of red rice yeast contributes to the maintenance of normal cholesterol levels. The consumer should be informed of the beneficial effect by the daily consumption of ten milligrams of monocoline K from fermented red rice yeast preparations. No maximum dose is set at European level. As adverse reactions have been reported with respect to these preparations, in August 2015 I requested a review of the efficacy and safety of these products from the Higher Health Council. In February 2016, he submitted a notice describing the positive effects and risks of adverse reactions for these products. Unfortunately, it does not contain accurate data on the doses of monocoline K that may cause adverse reactions. It therefore does not make it possible to draw conclusions as to their potential severity depending on the dose. However, the Council identifies different risk groups, namely pregnant women; people with liver, kidney or muscle disorders; people over 70 years of age; children and adolescents; people taking drugs that give rise to drug interactions; and statin intolerant subjects. The Council concludes by recommending the prohibition of all food supplements based on red rice yeast and suggesting the status of these products as medicinal products. According to the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the mere presence of a substance does not make a product a medicinal product, the dosage and the methods of use of the product must in particular be taken into account in determining its status. Since the Higher Council of Health is not competent to deliver an opinion on the drug or non-drug status of a product, I have asked for the opinion of the Joint Commission, which is empowered, under the Act of 25 March 1964 on medicinal products, to deliver an opinion on the matter. The Joint Commission is chaired by the AFMPS and is composed of representatives of the AFMPS, the SPF Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, the Environment DG of the SPF Economy and the AFSCA. It may also draw up opinions as part of the development of guidelines. In the case of red rice yeast products, the Joint Commission concluded that, in view of the currently available scientific evidence and the toxicological profile expected for monacoline K as a function of doses, red rice yeast preparations bringing more than 10 milligrams of monacoline K per day should be considered as medicinal products. On the other hand, products that bring a maximum of ten milligrams of K-monacoline per day may be considered as dietary supplements if the dose of K-monacoline is standardized and the labelling includes warnings to limit the risk of adverse reactions, particularly in pregnant and lactating women, people with liver, kidney or muscle problems, people over 70 years of age, children and adolescents, people taking medicinal products that may give rise to interactions, and people intolerant to statins. These warnings must be formulated in such a way as to be easily understandable to the average consumer. He should be invited to seek advice from a pharmacist or doctor in case of doubt. I have therefore adopted a conductive line incorporating these elements, allowing a clear distinction to be made between products that meet the definition of medicine and those that can be considered as food supplements. These provisions increase the safety of use of food supplements by setting a maximum limit for monacoline K and providing for special warnings. This limit of 10 milligrams per day for food supplements is the same as in other European countries such as France, for example. The Ministerial Decree of 19 February 2009 on the manufacture and trade of food supplements containing substances other than nutrients and plants or plant preparations will be adapted on the basis of this conductive line. In addition, AFMPS will make a communication on this conductive line to remind doctors and pharmacists which patients are at risk when prescribing and delivering products based on red rice yeast.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u46	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer. I'm not a doctor or pharmacist. What interests me is whether the people who use these food supplements are completely, partially or not at all protected and whether they are at risk. If I understand your answer, minister, you align yourself with the position of the Joint Commission and you say: "Below ten milligrams a day of monacoline K is good; beyond ten milligrams it is no longer good, it becomes a medicine." This seems to you to be holding the road. This means that in any case, if there are less than ten milligrams a day, there is no problem. Is that what you're saying? I'm asking you about the non-physician.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u47	No, I mentioned all the high-risk categories.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u48	Yes, but if we remove the risk categories and we're under ten milligrams?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u49	We've received a notice. We'll have to ask him. The Joint Commission concluded that, in view of the scientific evidence-based elements currently available and the toxicological profile expected for monacoline K depending on the dose, preparations based on yeast of red rice bringing more than ten milligrams of monacoline K per day should be considered as medicinal products. It is indeed the line that divides. On the other hand, products that bring a maximum of ten milligrams of K-monacoline per day may be considered food supplements, except that there are possible hazards for risk categories.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u50	Being profane in this area, I remain rather perplexed and, in my personal capacity, I will not take any.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. Nevertheless, and I agree with my colleague, that when we see the whole thing, it's a bit like the theory of mathematical ensembles. So many population groups have been identified as capable of showing signs with toxicity by consuming red rice yeast that, in the end, a large part of the population is affected. And below ten milligrams, it seems, remains toxic. Even if, scientifically, not everything is established to say that it is toxic enough, would it not be better to ban this product altogether?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u52	Minister, you only rely on the opinion of the Joint Commission. I'll be back in a minute. You just said that the Supreme Council of Health is not competent to give an opinion on the medicine. I absolutely cannot accept that. The Supreme Council of Health is first and foremost competent for what should guide your decision, namely for its scientific analysis. This scientific analysis is implacable; the Health Council has recommended that you ban over-the-counter red rice yeast. As far as the Joint Committee is concerned, I would like to draw your attention because you say that it is reassuring. Not at all! What does the Joint Commission say before the recommendation? I mean, you're the one signing, not her! She says two very interesting things. She talks about monacoline, but she also says something else: "Red rice yeast can contain harmful ingredients like citrine." Citrinine is a nephrotoxic substance. I know a little bit. Do you know what that makes me think? Chinese herbs. I'll be back in a minute. The Joint Commission also says something else. She says that no limit dose of monacoline K is determined below which monacoline K should be considered not to have significant pharmacological activity. I'm translating. She says that even at very small doses, there is indeed pharmacological activity and therefore necessarily all side effects and potential risks. Madam Minister, you have taken a directive outside of everything we could have imagined and that is anything but evidence-based. I weigh my words: it is dangerous; it is lightly guilty. Indeed, you are taking unacceptable risks with the health of citizens. This file reminds me of the Chinese herb file. A series of my patients took it to lose weight. I found them in end-stage renal failure. I've been dialysising them. And a number of them have been grafted. It was also an accessory question, not very serious! However, we have finally witnessed the scandal – I once again weigh my words – of Chinese herbs. I hope that today we are not going back to a new scandal. Madam Minister, I appeal to you. You cannot take unacceptable risks for citizens. There are many implacable reports on this product. I'm asking you to reconsider your position. You cannot allow this product to be over-the-counter when you know that there are potential risks even with small doses. It must be able to benefit from the same guarantees as a medicine, as a product at risk to health. Therefore, if you still want to sell it as a drug, it must meet the requirements and guarantees for patients. It's a security issue. It is a public health issue that I believe is of major importance. These are the reasons why, Madam Chair, I have tabled a motion that I will not read here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u53	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government 1. to act quickly and in accordance with Evidence Based and to implement promptly the recommendations made by the Higher Council of Health, at the request of the Minister herself, and by other recognized scientific bodies; 2. to put an end to any confusion between food supplements and medicinal products by prohibiting the free marketing of products based on "Red Rice Yeast" and requiring them to be considered as medicinal products in order to ensure the quality, efficacy and safety of these products, taking into account the risks of red rice yeast even at small doses, and the multiple scientific reports demonstrating this; 3. to open a fundamental debate on what we want as health products and on the guarantees we can give them in the light of a "grey zone" between medicines and food supplements." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government 1. to take immediate action on the basis of evidence-based medicine and to implement without delay the recommendations made by the High Health Council at the request of the Minister and the recommendations of other recognised scientific bodies; 2. to put an end to the possible confusion between food supplements and medicinal products by prohibiting the free sale of products containing fermented red rice and to require that those products be considered as medicinal products in order to ensure the quality, efficacy and safety of those products, as there are risks associated with the use of fermented red rice, even at a low dosage, and numerous scientific reports demonstrating this; 3. hold a fundamental debate on the health products we want and on the guarantees we can offer for those products, given the "grey zone" between the medicines and the food supplements." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Oral questions Nos. 14619, 14621, 14653, 16030, 14623, 14661, 16034, 14667, 14670, 14675 and 14763 by Ms. Yoleen Van Camp are transformed into written questions. They were already postponed the previous time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u54	Minister, it has recently been decided to reimburse the treatment of alirocumab, a new expensive cholesterol medication. This medication would work differently from traditional statins and lower bad cholesterol more effectively in the blood. However, the proteins that make up it are more difficult to produce and this medicine is therefore more expensive. It is aimed primarily at some patients who are at high risk of cardiovascular disease, which seems to be the case for thousands of Belgians. When will this medicine be refunded? To whom will the reimbursement of this treatment be available? How is the category of patients defined? According to the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information (CBIP), this medicine would not significantly reduce mortality due to cardiovascular diseases. Have any studies been conducted on the effectiveness of this medicine? What are the results? According to the same centre, long-term side effects are not yet known either. Have any studies been carried out in this regard? How have the elements put forward by the centre been taken into account in your decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u55	The group for which the reimbursement of alirocumab will be possible is composed of patients with family hypercholesterolaemia, with a very high cardiovascular risk, and who do not obtain enough results with existing cholesterol medications. In Belgium, 8000 patients have these criteria. This group is smaller than the one for which the recording was made. Studies are still carried out according to the use of this medicine. The impact on some risks of heart failure still needs to be assessed. The number of patients to be treated is less than 8,000. All physicians will be prepared to prescribe this medication, but some patients will not want to receive such treatment, as it should be injected. A group of adults with family heterozygous hypercholesterolemia were selected by the Dutch Lipid Clinic Network with a score of more than eight points. There are patients who have exceeded a certain cholesterol threshold, while they have followed the conventional cholesterol treatment correctly. For patients who have already experienced a coronary accident, it is obvious that the thresholds are lower. Everything will be refunded. This has been included in the scientific package leaflet of the medicine. The medicine has been listed under Chapter 4. That means we need to get mutual medical approval. In addition, this will not be refunded if the medicine has been prescribed by a doctor specializing in cardiology or an internal doctor. In order to claim a refund, the physician must attest that the patient in question is in the above situation and must also undertake to verify the impact of the treatment through the annual realization of a lipid profile. This must be stated in the patient's medical record and the physician must keep all supporting documents relating to the patient's situation and make them available to the physician-counsel for inspection. This is an ex post check as is the case in other cases. Finally, approval of the refund is authorized for a period of 48 weeks. The refund can be extended several times for a further 48 weeks as well. In this case, the attending physician must still attest to the need to continue treatment with evidence from blood samples. As of September 1, 2016, the medicine has been reimbursed. It is too early to get numbers of patients who have already applied, but we must be very careful. Indeed, if studies and tests have been carried out, once a drug is on the market, it is always necessary to remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u56	It is a decision that can only be welcomed because, according to the calculations, it could cost almost 7,500 euros per year per patient, which makes this medication inaccessible to many people. This is a very good political decision!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u57	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u58	Madam President, Madam Minister, on your initiative a convention has entered into force to stimulate the introduction of biosimilar medicines into the Belgian market. You stressed that this initiative is necessary to ensure the affordability of health care for patients and society. You even said: "The introduction of biosimilars is an important lever for fully competing in the drug market and thus lowering the prices of organic medicines." The issue is all the more relevant, Minister, as the government is looking for measures to save more money. To this end, the promotion of biosimilars could be an effective and meaningful response. Minister, nine months after the coming into force of these provisions, what progress has been made in this regard? What is the percentage of prescribed biosimilars compared to biologics? Does this correspond to the results anticipated in the original plan? To the extent that it is not considered to be sufficiently advanced in the field, do you think that certain initiatives should be taken to promote the use of biosimilar medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u59	Mr Thiéry, based on the September 2016 data, expressed as a percentage of defined daily doses, the use of biosimilar specialties in the ATC B03XA class, for erythropoietins with short half-life, was 2.27%, for 1.07 % in June 2016. In the ATC L03AA class for colony-stimulating factor granulocytes with short half-life, it was 3.30%, for 1.07% in June 2016. There's an evolution, but we're from far away. [[The use of biosimilar specialties in the ATLC 04AB class was 11.08 %, compared to 8.77 % for 2016.]] It is clear that these percentages still need to be increased in order to ensure an attractive market for biosimilar specialities, but this shows that the convention is beginning to bear fruit. I would point out that it is also mandatory to make tenders. It takes a while. But we know the contracts will be there after. In order to further stimulate the use of biosimilar medicines, I have recently sent a circular to hospitals in which I re-explain the need for the use of biosimilar medicines, i.e. their use brings competition on the market for expensive biological medicines, by which expenditure can decrease substantially. The means released can be used to finance new and innovative medicines. The application of public procurement and the use of biosimilar medicines in hospitals will no longer be monitored in an aggregated manner, but by each hospital in order to monitor whether all hospitals apply public procurement regulations. If this follow-up does not show a substantial increase in both the number of public tenders and the use of biosimilar medicines, then you understand that I will have no choice but to take more stringent measures to enforce compliance with the law and the convention. AFMPS updated the information on its biosimilar medicines website on 1 September. This text has been brought into line with the latest versions of the relevant guidelines of the European Medicines Agency. The AFMPS text provides clearer information and adjustments on the definition of the medicinal product, the interchangeability of biological medicinal products and their alternative biosimilars, the immunogenicity and the extrapolation of therapeutic indications. The updated list of approved biosimilar medicinal products is also available. Since, for most biosimilar medicinal products, marketing authorisation under a centralised European procedure is mandatory, therefore via EMA (European Medicines Agency), all Member States must comply with the guidelines for biosimilar medicinal products in force. As a result, AFMPS, as the Belgian Medicines Agency, scrupulously follows these guidelines and is also involved in their development. It can also play a role in clarifying information for health professionals through targeted presentations at symposia, as is already the case for oncologists. By chance, last Friday, after the introduction of your question, I went to a hematologists' symposium in La Hulpe on biosimilar diseases. I insisted on the need for their prescription. You know that when these medicines are put on the market, the price of the originals falls by 18% and that is a lot. Several practitioners told me they didn't know it existed. Of course, they receive a lot of innovative claims and drugs. I then explained to them that budgets should be reallocated to the extent possible. When we see a use going at home from 1 to 3 % or from 8 to 11 %, we should know that neighbouring countries reach a use close to 80 %. We have really missed the train in previous years. It is not easy to take the appropriate steps to catch up with this delay, but it is necessary. We're trying to do this. This year, the AFMPS will plan further targeted and targeted communications for health professionals. In the meantime, I'm already with the farmer, with 700 hematologists on Fridays and 900 oncologists on Tuesdays. I explain that it exists, that it is safe and that what they can look up about it. We will see where it is going, but it has really become a dangerous situation, because the risk is also that the biosimilars will no longer ask to enter our market. This will put us behind schedule and we will continue to have to pay all these high prices. Then we will not go down 18 %. They asked me questions, but many were really surprised. Some testimonies from doctors said that they had started using this. They said it was the same thing and they were satisfied with it. As it is cheaper, it allows the hospital to buy other products for patients. The cycle is there, but when you're blind...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you. When you're blind, you don't see much, it's quite clear! My question was to ensure that the medical profession received sufficient information and, ultimately, I find that, even if it exists - and you have seen it for yourself - it is not yet integrated by the entire medical profession. However, savings are actually needed in this area for molecules that are quite equivalent. You see the extent of the communication problem. It is essential to note that, compared to other countries, we have been very late, because we should have pushed for 20 years to be at the level of European standards. I see things are going on. You can only be encouraged to share this information. It is true that the tender is fundamental and needs to be controlled. Tenders are not yet considered to be generally applicable. They could not only allow us to save money, but also to benefit from these amounts to invest in research or to allow hospitals to do research to find other molecules.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u61	That's why every hospital will be checked. It will be their responsibility. Some are very low or zero. It is up to us to ask the questions in order to know why they did not follow the tenders' procedure, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u62	This is more dynamic than the procedure that was known at the beginning of the generics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u63	Yes, but when one is faced with percentages close to 80% in neighbouring countries, while in Belgium they are not used (...) The topic of the symposium was accreditation, which proves that interest exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u64	Minister, this is not the first time I have asked a question about the unavailability of certain drugs. Here I am referring to a specific medicine, Advagraf. This immunosuppressant is clearly very often unavailable in pharmacy. This unavailability generates stress in the head of the patients who have to use it. I took this example, but I remember that last year I knew about other medicines that were sometimes unavailable in pharmacies. When the question is asked to pharmaceutical companies, they tend to say that this is a temporary, stock-related unavailability and that everything is going to be in order. I realize that the pharmaceutical companies do not inform you of an unavailability, so as not to find themselves in competition with a company that could provide this medication. Minister, can you recall the device put in place to avoid the unavailability of drugs? Do we have any means to avoid this harmful phenomenon for patients? In your opinion, on the basis of the current situation, should additional measures be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u65	Mr. Thiéry, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) did not receive any notifications of unavailability of Advagraf in 2016. It is likely that the origin of the problem lies rather in the quota of the drug. Some medicines, in Belgium, are actually quotaed and Advagraf is one of them. The quota of medicinal products is a practice which has existed for many years and applied by some pharmaceutical companies in Belgium and in other countries of the European Union. It consists of using the consumption figures of previous years to calculate the quantity of a medicinal product to be produced annually to meet the needs of the Belgian market. To this quantity is also added a forecast margin as well as a safety margin. This quantity is then distributed among the various Belgian wholesalers, in proportion to their previous annual orders. Quotas are calculated by pharmaceutical companies and cannot be controlled by AFMPS. They are regularly reviewed to adapt to the changing needs of the market. The parallel export of Belgian medicines by distribution wholesalers with adequate authorisations is not illegal either. In the case of quotas, the medicine is not actually unavailable on the market, but it is true that delivery to the pharmacist may take a little longer, as long as the wholesaler is restocked by the distributor of the medicine. When a drug is actually unavailable, for example due to manufacturing problems, the firm is required to report its unavailability to AFMPS and the unavailability is then published on the AFMPS website. In this case, a pharmacist may, on the basis of a medical prescription and a doctor's declaration, import a registered alternative therapy into the country of origin (Article 105 of the Royal Decree of 14 December 2006 on medicinal products for human or veterinary use). Furthermore, in the event of the temporary unavailability of a medicinal product in Belgium, AFMPS may, on the advice of the Advisory Commission, grant a derogation to a pharmaceutical firm for the importation and distribution in Belgium of a therapeutic alternative not registered in Belgium but registered and available in another country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u66	Minister, I was very interested in the pharmaceutical field in the first part of my professional career. In the end, I am glad to hear that a number of measures have been taken, but I can tell you that a pharmaceutical firm will never dare to say - unless there is a major production problem - to AFMPS that there is a stock shortage and that it can no longer feed the market, even for a certain period of time because, automatically, the system to which you refer, allows competing firms, through a much lighter procedure, to bring the equivalent of the molecule into Belgium. We realize then that this molecule is cheaper and that is the reason why societies never declare this. This is a discussion we can have with the firm since I think I know the system well. Beyond the export problem on which you have pointed out, this is ultimately what is happening: because prices are better at exporting, wholesalers tend to export and do not respect quotas in Belgium or the stock. We should therefore impose a higher quota, higher stocks, with the obligation to first deliver to our country and possibly export afterwards. There are agreements between pharmaceutical companies and wholesalers. That is what needs to be checked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u67	Question No 14920 by Mrs Jadin is postponed to her request. Question No 15014 by Mrs Van Hoof is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the Royal Decree of 26 March 2003 amending the Royal Decree of 14 September 1984 establishing the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind for compulsory medical care and benefits in kind, the second paragraph states that only one of the benefits in kind in the first paragraph of the same Article may be charged per day and per patient. These benefits are all about ultrasounds outside of pregnancy. This limitation applies both to the individual physician and to the different physicians of the same specialism. In practice, doctors indicate that when a patient applies for an ultrasound of, for example, the shoulder and hip or knee and elbow, he is refused and is asked to return to the hospital on another day, otherwise he would not be entitled to reimbursement by the health insurance. I have been told that this is because the same code is always included in the nomenclature for these two echoes. Doctors indicate that they do not understand the reason for this rule and consider him unfriendly to the patient and to the costs of managing the RIZIV itself. Eventually the technical performance will be charged twice, but if the doctor can do so at once, he will charge a fee. Specifically, for limbs the code is 460294. So far, doctors have not dared to fill that out twice because they fear that it would not be repaid. Is that reasoning correct, even when it comes to different limbs? Can one not have ultrasound taken on the same day in order not to lose the right to reimbursement? What is the reasoning behind the royal decree? Is it desirable to adapt it or to allow additional differentiation in the code? It's patient unfriendly. Especially for people who are badly on their feet, for the elderly or for the sick, it is an additional difficulty. So I would like to have your opinion on the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, the problem you are raising is well known. The nomenclature rule provides that the patient for whom several ultrasounds are requested on the same day may not be charged on the same day. This is still the case since 2003. However, in the case of a number of benefits in kind, the description includes an examination of one or more organs or regions, for example an MR study of a breast or of both breasts, a bidimensional ultrasound of a breast or of both breasts, of an eye or of both eyes or of a limb or of several limbs. In the latter case, the patient on whom an ultrasound of, for example, a knee is performed should not be allowed to return for the other knee on another day, as you quote. In that case, the nomenclature contains a provision of bidimensional ultrasound of a limb or of several limbs, which may be charged. In the meantime, such definitions are also proposed for other benefits in kind. However, the general nomenclature rule in this field has not been amended. The motivation to do so is to encourage prescribers as much as possible to request only the necessary medical imaging and, for example, not systematically request an unnecessary bilateral examination. An exception is medical imaging in children, where bilateral research is done by default. With a child's hand, foot or knee the other side is always done, because there are still growth discs in the child and one must be able to see what the growth discs are and what is possibly a pathological problem. You know that we are also affected by a phenomenon of too many applications for imagery. However, that already fits in with that framework. With regard to the possibility of simultaneous studies for patients, such as an ultrasound of the hip and pelvis at the same time, we will bring this to the attention of...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u70	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u71	You could, but you mentioned two knees. In the case of CTs, for example, the equipment must always be moved. For a few hours one only does knees or shoulders. It also sometimes depends on the hospital. In any case, I would like to bring other matters back to the attention of the competent bodies. Changes to the nomenclature have already been made. We have 22 000 codes for the nomenclature. So it's not gonna happen on one. If other codes need to be added to increase the patient's comfort, then this should be done. You're talking about a fee, but that's not true. The fee is always the same. If two knees are to be examined, two separate protocols must be made, otherwise the wrong one can operate. In this respect, it is necessary to make a distinction. A protocol is drawn up each time and the fee for it is the same. The fee is charged for drawing up a protocol. There is the performance of the research, but above all the making of the protocol is being honored. This should be done separately for each part of the body. If you have any examples where this still needs to be adapted, you can give it to me. It's about a KB of 2003. In the meantime, many other studies are possible and the nomenclature must follow. The examples you have given do not all go on. Maybe there are others who will go on. You can always pass on these examples and we will have them examined whether there are any other nomenclature numbers needed, or whether there are any obstacles. I wasn't there in 2003 when this system came into being. I am told that this has arisen because it has been seen that research applications have been handled rather loosely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u72	The problem was reported to me the moment I went to the doctor myself. I was there for my shoulder and hip. It was said at the time that we should not do that. My doctor told me that he found that difficult for older people, that he was trying to fit a sleeve on it, but that this wasn't actually possible. I have the form here with me. My doctor told me that the code for a hip is the same as the code for a shoulder. It's about code 460294. You can't enter the same code twice. So here's the problem. I certainly do not want to say that we should do research when it is not necessary. It's not about that. But it's crazy that we'd bring people in twice, and this can happen at once if it's necessary. If a GP tells a patient to have both examined, it's crazy that this has to be done twice. In addition, my doctor told me that the technical performance is indeed payable separately. If a patient has to come twice, he also pays two consults. If a patient only has to be consulted once, he will pay for one consultation and two technical performances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u73	If you give me the specific nomenclature number, we'll have it checked. As far as the knees are concerned, there's no problem. Symmetrical investigations can happen. The Chair: The minister is open, and she is interested in talking about concrete cases. She will see what solutions she can offer. Here in committee, I don't think we can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u74	Madam Secretary, e-cigarettes have become a booming business. It is also gradually becoming clear that the use of e-cigarettes involves a number of health risk derivatives. On the one hand, it fits in with the use of a smoke stop, but on the other hand, a press article from last year about a study by the American University of Rochester. The fumes released during smoking are very harmful to the oral mucosa. This also depends on the quality of the e-cigarette. If the filament is exposed to too high voltage, formaldehyde is released, which can lead to oral diseases. This was confirmed by Professor Tytgat of the University of Leuven, who also showed that adding a mint taste would be more harmful to the mouth mucosa than the classic e-cigarettes. I also read in the same article that the quality requirements for e-cigarettes are being increased by the European Union. Do you already have a look at the new European quality framework? Is what I just said also taken into account in the Belgian notification procedure, which is mandatory before e-cigarettes can be sold in Belgium? What is your attitude towards adding a coin flavor to the e-cigarettes, taking into account the research? How will the population be kept informed of potential health risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u75	Mrs Van Hoof, the report from the United States, which you mention, indeed indicates that there are dangers associated with the use of the e-cigarette. They have already been able to do more research on this because in the United States the consumption of e-cigarettes is very high and the students in secondary education already have 16%. In Belgium, no study is yet available on this subject, because we have still allowed ordinary cigarettes to smoke. In the United States there is already a ban in the parks. Central Park has also been non-smoking for several months. My services believe that the report is in line with the vision given by the Health Council in October 2015. The e-cigarette is less harmful than the ordinary cigarette and can be used as a tool. So it must also be accessible. In the future, however, there may also be health risks for pins attached to the e-cigarette, which has always been communicated in this way. In this respect, we must be careful with regard to young people. That is why e-cigarettes, like ordinary cigarettes, are prohibited for young people under the age of 16. The measures provided for in the Directive are set out in the Royal Decree of 28 October 2016. The measures are also concerned with labelling, with the aim of providing users with better information on potential risks. It is also about measures concerning the composition of liquids, volume and so on. Supplementary measures were taken to protect the user and his environment. In other words, it is forbidden to use these e-cigarettes in public affairs. One Sunday there was a small demonstration at my door of the so-called vaporists. I must say that there has been a lot of talk about it in our congregation. After all, there really was a cloud of vapour around this group from the station to my door. My neighbors sent me photos. What this demonstration has brought to my mind is that people who have seen it now say that it is right that people do not allow it in a public place, in a restaurant or even here in this room. If there were some vaporists in here, we wouldn't be able to see each other anymore. As far as that is concerned, their action was a big deal. It is also prohibited to sell the e-cigarette to at least six-year-olds and to advertise. There is only a branch at the outlets. An e-cigarette notification procedure has also been introduced. It allows to know the composition of the products on the market and also to have data on the sale of these products and on the available toxicological data. These provisions create a framework designed to avoid acute intoxication mainly with nicotine, but also reduce the attractiveness of these products to consumers. The European Directive prohibits the presence of characteristic flavours, including mint taste, in tobacco products, but does not prohibit them in e-cigarettes. However, thanks to the notification procedure, the legislation allows us to monitor market developments. For example, new measures can be introduced at European level if this proves necessary. In this respect, we are lagging behind the United States. It is not desirable for us to take measures in this area on our own. There is a need for further work on this at European level. I understand the possible confusion about my reference to the adaptation of the control database of the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service. The database was only updated at the beginning of September 2016. Since then, 4 251 controls on tobacco products and e-cigarettes have been carried out in public places. 46 infringements against smoking e-cigarettes were detected. There were 16 pvs against operators and 7 pvs against vapours. The answer to other questions will be given in writing. Several actions were also undertaken by the services. An information meeting was organised for the sector. A guide was also drawn up to explain to those involved in the sale of the e-cigarette producers, importers and shop owners the impact of the new legislation, to a large extent resulting from the European Directive. Prevention and awareness actions for the general public are the responsibility of the Communities. In the meantime, all these stores have been given a check-up. Half of it wasn't okay. There were small or big flaws. The checks will take place again, including those who were in order. We will continue to check that everyone is okay with the European directive. The Inter-Ministerial Conference also provided an explanation of the EU Directive. This was followed by national legislation. It is now up to the Communities to follow this up, within their competence, in the field of prevention. They also take action to prevent tobacco. They must also provide for preventive measures so that young people do not start with tobacco, nor by extension with the e-cigarette. A lot of people have started a business here. They are surprised at the strict transposition of the European directive. There was no regulation. Now there is a regulation. That is why, with a hundred or so people on my doorstep, they have come to protest against the fact that this is now being regulated and controlled, which is only normal. For example, a pv has been drawn up against someone who sold filler to a 14-year-old. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u76	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. It is good that you treat the e-cigarette in the same way as the cigarette and that the rules apply for that. However, as far as the tastes are concerned, there is still a gap. In its report of 2015, the High Health Council indicated that the market share of the e-cigarette at that time was only 2%. In the meantime, I believe that this share has risen to about 5% to 10% in Belgium. In my view, short-term and long-term research is needed. We must also carry out this research in Belgium. This case will of course be followed up at European level because it has a notification procedure for the different chemicals. However, I believe that we ourselves should also be vigilant. I saw a photo this week of someone whose e-cigarette exploded in his pants. Fortunately, this had no further consequences. This is clearly not without danger. There are cheap models. I even saw a picture of someone blowing up the plane in his mouth. So this is still a case to follow. I would therefore urge that this should also be closely monitored at Belgian level through short-term and long-term studies which the High Health Council has argued for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u77	Questions Nos 15158, 15183 and 15186 by Mrs Jadin were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u78	Madam Minister, a study has been published a while ago by the Independent Hospital Funds which showed that one in seven baby babies has no pediatrist or general practitioner and that in single parent families or families with an increased allowance one in five baby babies have no reference doctor at all. Those figures for the first two years of life are actually worrying. The effect of the phenomenon is that one in three parents go to the emergency service at least once a year, so we could avoid it, and whatever costs money, money that we should invest in a different way. I am a great supporter of reference doctors, who are close to the people, like the general practitioners. You will agree with me on that point, since you are a general practitioner yourself. So I would not encourage families to take a pediatrist as the first reference doctor if the child is healthy and has no special conditions, but a general practitioner, who provides first-line health care and knows the whole family context. Especially for vulnerable families and babies from vulnerable families, we should encourage this formula. Madam Secretary, do you agree with me that families with baby babies should look for a regular family doctor and should only be referred to a pediatrist if necessary? Do you agree with me that it is best to have an initial check-up at family doctor's wards even for emergency shots of babies? Do you see any added value in neighbourhood health centres for vulnerable families? If so, is this in line with the decision to freeze resources for district health centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u79	Ms. Dedry, the RIZIV published a report in 2012 "Performance of general medical practice: a check-up, Health Services Research." This already showed that 15% of the children were not in contact with a doctor, i.e. one in six. In its White Paper, the RIZIV also focuses on the subject. The White Paper calls for effective partnerships between services dealing with mother and child health, with a view to a global approach, from conception to at least when the child goes to primary school. We have therefore asked the RIZIV to analyse the total costs and the impact of implementing a care course for vulnerable pregnant women from pregnancy diagnosis up to six weeks after childbirth. So we are in happy expectation of that report from the RIZIV. I really think this is important. We are making a great deal of efforts to provide guidance to mothers-to-be. There is already a mother-child path and the new project could be a follow-up. Furthermore, of course, families with baby babies can go to general practitioners. Where does it say they shouldn't go there? Everyone gets to go there. One can go there with his grandmother, but also with his grandchild. They're very accessible. Besides, patients can choose perfectly to register at a district health centre. That's their free choice. I also contradict the fantasy that I would reduce the functioning of the district health centres; 13 more centres will be added this year. We gave the list. So stop disinformation. World doctors said she'd open two because I'd cut them down. So that's not true. An audit of the use of public funds at the general practitioners' posts teaches us a lot. It teaches us how to improve them. Not only is it good that there is one, it must work well for the people as well. If not, they will be happy with a dead sparrow. There are centers that work well, there are those that don't work well. That's why the audit needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u80	Madam Secretary, first of all, you say that we are in happy expectation. I suppose it'll be for soon and it won't be nine months. You seem to have misunderstood my question, because I specifically asked you to encourage that you should first go to the family doctor's office instead of going straight to the emergency room, which is still happening too often. We agree on that. As far as the disinformation on the district health centres is concerned, I received a pamphlet from the Open Vld van Menen yesterday. You will then be quoted wrongly and say that you want to reduce or freeze the district health centres. I'll get you that pamphlet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u81	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u82	Mrs Jiroflée, perhaps you can answer in my place. I don't have them. I do have the information that I am being announced as a speaker in a health center for the People, that there will be a speed dating with me when I know nothing about it. Someone from my cabinet would have gotten a call and said I was coming. So I'm not aware of that. I wonder who they'll invite and who'll be there. That's what I call disinformation to the public. If one has not invited someone and that person will not be there, then one should not ask people to sign up for a speed date with Mrs De Block. I can't stand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u83	Madam President, personal fact. I feel addressed here to something that I do not know anything about, Madam Secretary. I believe I delivered the pamphlet to you via Facebook or e-mail. My associate passed it on. It's really worth reading that pamphlet from Open Vld Menen. That has nothing to do with what you just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u84	Thank you for forwarding the pamphlet with the wrong information from Open Vld Menen. I would also like to thank the people who have informed me that I would supposedly do a speeddate with half of Limburg, when I know nothing about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u85	Questions Nos 15261 and 15262 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u86	Madam Minister, we are told that patients suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome or fibromyalgia will now be reimbursed less sessions for treatment at the kinesis. Where they were previously entitled to the reimbursement of 60 sessions of 30 minutes, this is now reduced to 18 sessions and possibly 18 extra, although 45 minutes, all of this on an annual basis. In any case, this is a drastic reduction in the reimbursement to patients. Madam Minister, I would like to ask a number of specific questions about this. What does this mean for the patient? Many patients who suffer from CVS or fibromyalgia, to stay mobile, need weekly kine, or certainly on a regular basis. Does this mean that they will have to pay for the other necessary sessions from their own pockets? On what basis was this decision made? You refer to experts and international recommendations, but which experts and recommendations do you specifically refer to? Do you not fear that the reduction in the number of returned kine-hours will lead to the use of more painkillers? Those painkillers, of course, will also be refunded. Isn't that how you fill a well with the sand from another dug well?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u87	Minister, we've already talked about savings in our health care. Measures follow and are similar for some patients. Last example, your decision to plan physiotherapy sessions to treat fibromyalgia: we go from 60 to 18 sessions. And yet the ASBL FOCUS Fibromyalgie maintains that these physiotherapy sessions are essential for patients with this disease, which still affects 3% of the population, as they allow for a reduction in pain and improve their mobility. Petitions were issued against this decision, which was considered unfair and unwarranted by many. The latest guidelines appear to emphasize the importance of physical exercise. By drastically reducing the reimbursement of these sessions, these patients will be forced to take more painkillers and at higher doses. During the budgetary debates that took place in committee, you indicated that you had based yourself on the latest evidence-based references and an in-depth analysis of the scientific literature, as well as on the consultation of Belgian and foreign experts, and in particular on a study by the KCE. In a letter sent to certain professionals by the KCE, this decision appears to have been taken without any opinion being sought from the Federal Centre of Expertise. Could you tell us what KCE report you're referring to? Is this the relatively negative assessment of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and fibromyalgia management centres in 2008? Could you provide us with the latest scientific and evidence-based references on which you relied? Will the savings made in this framework be used to cover other benefits? If so, which ones? Do you not fear that your decision will lead to overconsumption of painkillers? This will be more detrimental to the health of these patients and will result in additional costs for health care insurance, what do you think? What will happen in the future with the partial reimbursement of painkillers for patients with chronic pain, all of which is linked?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u88	Madam Chair, Minister, I will not repeat what has already been said. Minister, you have made decisions about patients with fibromyalgia, but also those with chronic fatigue syndrome. It is an invisible disease, often misunderstood, that affects more than 300,000 Belgians, although some still consider it a "bidon" disease today. It should be recalled that it is officially recognized as a disabling disease by the World Health Organization. It seemed important to me to recall these elements, knowing how the situation of these patients is sometimes addressed when many of them are affected by them on a daily basis. You therefore decide to change the terms and conditions of the refund, including the category. This is a harsh and brutal measure for the people concerned, which could ultimately have a significant impact on the budgetary side. Indeed, this is a budget restraint that may well cost you a lot more, because kine treatment often allows the patient to continue to work. In doing so, your decision seems totally incomprehensible to me. In fact, this not only penalizes patients on a daily basis, but also risks precipitating them on sick leave, which will cost the state much more. Minister, in your opinion, it was the kines and doctors who decided that. Let me tell you that I interviewed them. The scientific world, the medical world and the world of the kineans make their incomprehension to your decisions that are in no way in line with the recommendations. To take up Dr. Masquelier's remarks, you broke a castle of cards built for years for purely budgetary reasons. It goes so far as to say that this is a failure to assist people in danger and a major social regression. Minister, your decision is incomprehensible. Beyond trying to justify it without evidence, let me ask you to reconsider your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u89	Madam Minister, I will not repeat what the previous speakers have said. I agree with a number of questions and I will only briefly ask my own questions. Are the figures quoted in the press correct? How many patients are affected? What is your motivation or how do you justify this saving? It is known that these kine sessions make it possible for patients to re-integrate and participate in the labour market. Making it possible to integrate long-term patients is one of your concerns, isn't it? Is this measure not at odds with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u90	Minister, I will address other aspects of the problem. First of all, the reason why the main representative association of French-speaking physiotherapists, namely the Union des physiotherapists de Belgique (UKB), would not have been consulted on the refund reform does not seem to me very clear. Is it because she is not represented on the Technical Council for Kinesitherapy? A minimum of 1,000 members are required to be recognized as a representative association by INAMI. The UKB, which does not reach this threshold, denounces a change in the counting period taken into account. The Axxon association is represented in this Council alongside mutuals and experts. However, it appears to be mostly representative of practitioners in the north of the country, as confirmed by the distribution of circles mentioned on its site. It's quite objective information, I insist. On the other hand, the UKB, which would be more representative of Francophone physiotherapists, therefore feels excluded from consultation. Minister, could you please let us know the result of the count undertaken by INAMI in the presence of a bailiff, by providing for each Region the number of physiotherapists affiliated with Axxon and the number of members of the UKB? Could you not consider representativeness in each Region so that Francophones are not excluded from the debate and can also be heard? This reform would not be a measure of economy in itself, but would still make it possible to make an economy. How high will it be? Will it be allocated to the overall effort required for healthcare in 2017 or will it be allocated to other physiotherapy treatments? Finally, could you explain the arguments put forward by the experts consulted to justify that longer and fewer sessions would benefit patients? Last December, you said: "This decision was taken by the Technical Council for Kinesitherapy on the basis of the opinion of all Belgian universities, experts, doctors and physiotherapists. A full panel of well-informed people, a study of the scientific literature and the KCE report were also consulted." However, the scientific basis of your decision is contested. Thus, the only study conducted by KCE that could have a connection to the subject we are concerned with is called "Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. Diagnosis, treatment and organization of care" and date of 2008. In their conclusions, the experts mainly criticized the reference centres for chronic fatigue syndrome, which had been opened in 2002, but I do not see how this justifies your reform. FOCUS Fibromyalgie Belgium also claims that your reform is unfounded because it does not take into account scientific recommendations or expert opinions. It has taken the decision to institute a procedure for annulment before the Council of State and the UKB will also join it. Minister, this controversy seems to merit clarification as to the studies and experts that justified your reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u91	Madam Minister, in my question I mentioned the content of your intervention when we discussed the policy note and the budget. I will not repeat this, especially since other colleagues have alluded to it. But if I included it in my question, it is because, at his hearing and reading, the confusion is total when we take it as a whole, since there is at the same time a replacement of 60 sessions reimbursed by 18, renewable on the simple prescription of the attending physician. The message that emerges and that you insist on is that they will be able to renew it as much as necessary. However, the difference lies in the rates of reimbursement which are complementary to the nature of the benefits. I think we need to be able to give a clear answer. In addition, I also contacted patients with fibromyalgia and the kines and doctors who work with them. Everyone is horrified by the measures you have taken. You said we had to move these people and not just give them massages. It is clear that both are necessary. The physiotherapists are able, at the same time, to mobilize mobility and soothe limbs as well as pain. These permanent and sometimes very intense pains form the basis of fibromyalgia. I am completing my question because in your proposal to reform Royal Decree 78, you provided for benefits grouped with different providers who could each intervene in their specificity around the same patient and of the same concern. It seems to me that what is proposed here is contrary to this objective. I wonder if there would be any point in anticipating this possibility of pooled benefits and having this approach requested for so long - just as in the resolution adopted in Parliament a few years ago - on the multidisciplinary bio-psycho-medical-social approach. My questions are aimed at clarifying in detail the benefits, nature and rates of reimbursements to which fibromyalgic patients will be entitled, so that the answer is clear. I would also like you to specify the characteristics of the permitted kine sessions and the alternatives that you have considered. Could you give the precise scientific and medical basis on which you decided, since, apparently, the reports and analyses of the actors on the ground do not coincide with what you said? Could you please specify which health actors have actually been consulted, not only among all physiotherapists, but also beyond them? In fact, physiotherapists are not the only ones involved in a multidisciplinary model recommended for these patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u92	Madam President, I will repeat it again, because apparently my answers were not listened to during the budget negotiations. Patients will have access to 18 compensated larger 45-minute sessions, for a period of 1 year, specifically focused on the treatment of CVS or fibromyalgia. During that year, all benefits in kind granted in the context of the treatment of those syndromes must be attested to those specific sessions. For other conditions, normal recoverable kinesitherapeutic benefits in kind remain possible. Outside that year, the treatment of these syndromes can also be charged and reimbursed in the context of the common conditions, but then, of course, they are sessions of 30 minutes. Contacts and recommendations show that coaching, teaching and intensive follow-up are particularly necessary during the first six weeks. This means that people are taught what they can do according to their condition. After that, it's more about refreshing sessions. Within that year, this will fit within the specific 18 plenary sessions. Outside that year, the reimbursement of those refreshing sessions will be part of the current recommendations. This targeted approach is clearly different from the standard sessions applied so far in the chronic FB list. This brings me to the Technical Council for kinesitherapy, the Belgian universities and the RIZIV. They were based on scientific articles by professors, doctors and kines, as well as interviews with them. These include Professor Vogelaers, Dr. Mariman, Mr. Descheemaeker of the Ghent UZ, Professor-Doctor Nijs of the VUB, Mr. Tits of Erasmus, Professor Hyland of Plymouth University, Professor-Doctor Lorna Paul of the Rehab Research Center of Glasgow and Dr. Karen Wallman of the Sport Science exercise and health Center of Western Austria. The goal is to reduce chronic pain in patients using a targeted kinestherapeutic approach that could reduce the use of painkillers. There will of course also be a follow-up of a possible change in the use of painkillers. There's also some weirdness in the numbers you're quoting, Mr. Senesael. In particular, you are talking about 3% of the Belgian population. This is a paradox for me because when INAMI was asked about the numbers in 2015, INAMI recorded only 1,071 patients with CVS/CFS and 7,800 patients with fibromyalgia. You're talking about over 300,000 patients. I do not understand that so few of them registered for reimbursement in 2015, before I took action. Then we see that out of the 60 plenary sessions they used on average 36 to 40 sessions of 30 minutes a year, which is roughly the same as the current one. People are making a story here, because they get more and longer sessions than abroad. In the countries around us the reimbursement is given for 10 to 12 sessions. We give reimbursement for 18 sessions and also the possibility of extending the ordinary sessions accordingly. Then there's another big misunderstanding. You say it's 3 percent of the population, but 3 percent of the population... if a total of 7 800 and a further 1 100 are registered by the RIZIV, I don't think we're dealing with the same people. We're not talking about the same people. Ms Caprasse, the Technical Council for Kinesitherapy cannot invite organisations that did not meet the conditions of recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u93	Madam Minister, I would like to take those figures, but do I understand that for that refreshment, as you call it, they can continue to go to sessions of half an hour? [[Yes]] I did not receive an answer to the question as to what basis you made that decision, about those experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u94	I have fully followed the advice given to me by the Technical Board for physiotherapy. On what basis? I based myself on that advice. I mentioned all those professors, including from abroad and from literature. I thought it was a well-motivated advice. We've discussed it, I've asked for explanations about it, and I've followed it very closely. People here pretend that I had a dream about taking that measure. That is not the case, it is truly well-founded. I was given that advice and I followed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u95	You may not be able to answer it immediately, but my third question concerns the fear that more painkillers will be used. Is it possible to register this somehow, how the use of painkillers evolves in those patients, in those 1 071 and those 7 800? It's just a suggestion, but I think it's worth keeping an eye on and following up on it over the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for some of the answers you provided. With all due respect, I asked you six questions. At least three questions remained unanswered. Believe me, minister, I don't have your skills; I didn't get up one morning, put my finger to the wind saying that there are 3% of the population affected. If I give you this figure, it was announced by the ASBL FOCUS Fibromyalgie. So I'm going to interview this ASBL to see where it's got these numbers and I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u97	The question is: why are they not known to INAMI? If they exist, they must be known to INAMI because they are people who have benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u98	I'm not questioning your numbers. Far from it, minister! I will specify the report on which I have based myself to announce this figure. I will continue my investigations into this matter and I will come back. Like my colleague, Mrs Jiroflée, I see that when you reduce or otherwise orient the kine sessions with painkillers, you also don't have a canvas that is precise at this level. I'm sorry, but you don't get all the answers to the questions you're asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u99	Mr. Chair, minister, to hear you, it will be better, patients can have more. I can't accept that we're truncated with reality. Let me decode your words. Today is 60 times 30 minutes. Tomorrow, it will be 18 times 45 minutes non-renewable for fibromyalgia. You say that 18 or more sessions can be added. But you know as well as I do that this will have to be justified on the basis of another pathology (osteoarthritis or lumbar pain).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u100	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u101	Yes, it's written black and white. But there are people who suffer from fibromyalgia who do not necessarily suffer from another pathology that may justify them being able to benefit from additional sessions. This means that this will be a problem for a number of patients. On the other hand, there are so-called 40 kine treatments per year for patients with fibromyalgia. This is an average. In other words, some people need fewer sessions, but many others need more sessions per year. As in all averages, the figure advanced is not indicative of the individual reality of all patients. Finally, you say that it will be better, that they may have more. But, Madam Minister, you are saving money. The mathematical equation is known. We're not going to believe that patients will get more, while you're saving on the health budget. I ask you not to lure the affected patients who are suffering from this disease on a daily basis. The doctors and kines who have manifested themselves are very clear about this. You also know that the General Union of the Belgian Kines accompanies the association FOCUS Fibromyalgie Belgium which has filed an appeal to the Council of State. I can only insist on you. You make very short-term savings that are savings of candlesticks and that tomorrow, will cost much more to the state budget because, without a kine, some of these patients will not be able to continue their professional activity. By way of comparison – as it is sometimes interesting to do a little European benchmarking – in France, patients suffering from fibromyalgia are entitled to a kine session a day. One a day, Madam Minister! In fact, the decisions that are made hurt!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u102	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It's been clearer to me. The fact remains that it is a saving, not a very large one, but still a saving. I hope that this will be monitored in terms of reintegration into working life, so that this does not become more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u103	Minister, I'm really still hungry. From a medical point of view, I agree with my colleagues that your measures will certainly not help patients to suffer less, on the contrary. On the budgetary side, I asked you what other physiotherapy treatments your savings would be directed to. I didn't get an answer. You're telling me the UKB isn't recognized. I find it very curious that they cannot even benefit from consultation. They're back to us. They're outraged. How do you explain that they can still join the appeal? Many questions remain open. I am completely dissatisfied with the way in which you have considered this reform. This is outrageous for the sick and for the physiotherapists who have not had the opportunity to express themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u104	Minister, I find that, basically, there is something wrong when the Minister of Health's speech or proposals are not understood, or do not correspond to what we have on the ground. Patients tell us they're on the sidelines, they won't get the sessions and treatments they need. Doctors and physiotherapists say the same thing. You really need to get these people around the table once and for all, whether they're recognized or not. There are no 42 associations of physiotherapists. There are no 50,000 doctors specializing in the treatment of fibromyalgia. Patients with chronic fatigue also feel concerned, although this is another problem. Bring them together so that speeches, positions and decisions are clear and understood and that, if there is something to be reconsidered, it can be done. You're talking about different content from physiotherapy sessions. You say that there will be coaching, that they will be taught how to mobilize themselves, that there will be more mobilization, that for others there will be massage, etc. I find it interesting that the physiotherapy sessions and the accompaniment by a physiotherapist can take on different dimensions around these patients. But there too, it is necessary that people can understand it and that it can meet needs and make sense to them. Last item. I think it's important that you can interact with what Mrs. Fonck said. In your answer, you refer to the 18 sessions of 45 minutes and then, if there is a general practitioner's prescription, there is the possibility of having additional sessions of 30 minutes that will be less reimbursed. Ms. Fonck said that at that time, we must be able to link this to another pathology. I would like you to give the answer to the microphone that this is not the case, so that it is included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u105	That's not the case. Now, for both the vermoeidheidssyndroom (CVS) and fibromyalgia, this can be prescribed by 18 sessions, as always. It's in the usual refund. One can get 18 turns for fibromyalgia. If one also has another problem at the same time, such as a sequence of a fracture or an operation, then one can ask for the normal refund. That is now within the ordinary refund and no longer in that special list. So it's more accessible to the people who need it. The adjustment then happened because the CVS had to go through those reference centres in the past, where one is now willing to do so throughout the country. People had to go there to get the refund application approved. Everyone goes by that, that's exactly nothing. That was a problem at the time, and that is why I was asked for that advice before I was Minister of Health. That advice has come from the Technical Board for kinesitherapy within our consultative bodies. They have drafted an opinion, and I have followed it. That's it. I take responsibility for that. I followed that well-founded advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u106	Minister, the additional sessions will, according to your press release, be granted on the basis of kine sessions for ordinary pathologies. Of course, it will have to be justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u107	Fibromyalgia is an ordinary pathology which entitles these ordinary sessions, and which are not the eighteen specials, for follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u108	For follow-up, yes. They were removed from a list and put back in the... In case of an acute fracture, the kine is also for that. It's not ordinary in the "ordinary" sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u109	That's why I'm saying it. I would like to remind you of the official terms used. These are the so-called ordinary sessions. I would also remind the minister that the refund will be different. So this will have an impact. I would remind you that in the rules, repayments are different. So don't come and tell us that they will have at least as much as they do today, if not more. The proof of that is that you are making millions of savings on that budget. Anyway, I have all the calculations here, and I can make you a big spread, with the models that have been made! They'll have less, and it'll cost them more. In addition, I am waiting for the administrative part. I would remind you that the medical consultant also has the capacity to oppose it. Things are diametrically different from what exists today, and I regret that. I would like to thank all the colleagues who have agreed to shift their speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u110	It is a subject on which there is a risk of coming back if all things have not been clarified in the context of these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u111	Question No 15312 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u112	Minister, your decision to open the blood donation to homosexuals on condition of a one-year abstinence has been variously commented on. This development is undeniably progress. The conditions for giving blood, however, exclude many HIV-negative homosexuals in stable relationships, who may come to increase the ranks of blood donors, who are often called upon to compensate for a lack of available pockets. Indeed, in the homosexual population, according to information from HIV specialists, only 10% practise "sexual nomadism", which is far from the distorted image, usually conveyed, of individuals thirsting for sex and perpetual hunting. Moreover, it is not the object of desire that promotes the transmission of HIV, but a specific practice that is not exclusive to homosexuals: sodomy. She contaminates the partner, whether it is a man or a woman who gets penetrated. In addition, there is not only HIV that can be transmitted during sexual intercourse. Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are transmitted in the same way regardless of the type of relationship. HCV, among others, also syphilis, which has a high prevalence in Belgium, can be transmitted to transfused patients. However, for these diseases, the risk-benefit balance allows the donation of blood. Probably because they are curable, unlike HIV, although for HCV, this possibility is quite recent, especially with positive results. Could you give us an update on the blood donation of rare blood groups? Do institutions have sufficient tools available for the survival of patients with these rare rhesus and groups? How should care services respond to shortages? Given the vital need for rare blood in some cases, is it not necessary to act on the same principle of risk-benefit to blood donors with these rare groups and rhesus? Isn't that what is already practiced with regard to organ donation? With the implementation of PrEP, pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis, is there no way, as has been done for HIV-positive pregnant women, to use rare blood by preventing any HIV infection by prescribing this treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u113	Mr Flahaux, ABO and Rhesus blood group systems are the most common in the daily practice of transfusion. In addition, there are still more than 30 other systems of blood groups, the distribution of which is determined by ethnic origin. The need for blood for a rare blood group is relatively uncommon. In Belgium, there are two cryobanks of blood where rare blood groups are frozen and preserved and which can be used by blood establishments. In addition, international conventions have been signed with other blood cryobanks and with the European Register of Rare Blood Groups. As part of a planned procedure, it is also often used for autologous transfusion in the case of a rare blood group, because it is safer. The situation regarding organ transplantation is not comparable to that of rare blood groups. The blood can be stored and frozen, while donors with a rare blood group can be called to give their blood. There is therefore no reason to establish less stringent criteria in terms of safety and quality for rare blood groups - and certainly not for treatments such as prophylaxis and pre-exposure, in the case of blood transfusions and blood components. You talked about sexual nomadism. This theme was taken into account when we decided to open up the possibility of donating blood to rare blood groups. I said at that time that we were ready to evolve on the basis of scientific evidence. Safety is essential for the receiver. It was in this context that we had a dialogue with the Red Cross and the centres. I am willing to evolve but not to sexual nomadism. We couldn't go any further without having to refuse the whole thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u114	I wanted to thank you, minister, for your answer. I recall that in 2007-2008 I interviewed the then Minister of Health, Laurette Onkelinx, who never wanted to make progress in the area of blood donation for homosexuals. I therefore congratulate you for taking a step that I believe is insufficient, however, in the absence of having a document signed by all those who practice sexual nomadism without being all homosexual. This could be the solution to the problem, but I am already satisfied with the more precise answer you have given to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u115	Minister, the Modus association, after a two-year interruption due to a lack of financial resources, has put in place an action proposing a Stérifix kit for intravenous drug users. This kit, available in some pharmacies, contains water, a disinfectant buffer, a filter, a spoon. Pharmacists add syringes and offer 50 cents to interested people. It supports the work carried out at the injection equipment exchange counters in Brussels and Wallonia, where between 300 and 350 000 syringes are offered as part of a personalised offer based on the products and methods of use of drug users. These actions, which are preventive and therefore dependent on the Ministers of Health of the Regions and Communities, are limited by the predominantly urban nature of the exchange counters, but also by the very weak means of the actors concerned. Modus has negotiated with the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (APB) a barcode accessible to all pharmacists and dispatchers to deliver without margin the pharmacists who order the kit. The difficulty is that, if this makes it easier for professionals, it does not make it possible to see which pharmacies deliver them and therefore inform the target audiences. As a result, drug users outside major urban centres are unlikely to have access to this disease prevention tool. As a result, they may contaminate or contaminate others, which is even more serious. It is here, Madam Minister, that your skills are met. When there is infection with STIs, HIV, HCV, there is a path of care to be put in place and treatment to be delivered sometimes for life, as for HIV, with as a corollary the resulting side effects and illness stoppages, the unworkdays, the high cost of treatment to be delivered. In order to act more effectively and thus reduce even more drastically the number of contaminations, the association would need to have the database of pharmacies. However, it costs EUR 5,000, i.e. the annual budget of the Sterifix action. Minister, is it possible for your services to provide this list to the association so that it can act more effectively, in particular with pharmacies outside of large cities, to offer the same security of drug use to all users of these substances, regardless of where they live? Is it possible to support this association to raise awareness, which takes time, of pharmacists about this problem and the action Sterifix, the means of Modus not allowing it to carry out this alone? In view of the lack of resources that can only increase as demand increases, Modus plans to create a self-financing and pharmacy-available Seribox kit as part of a Marketing Authorisation (MA) to be proposed in 2017. Their distribution, also in automatons as it has been in France for more than twenty years, would allow a more coherent distribution throughout the territory and accessibility no matter what the time. It also requires financial resources to manage the park. This would, however, compensate for the lack of consumer rooms in Belgium. Minister, is it also possible to facilitate this task in Modus? So many uncontaminated users, it makes as many people who will not risk contaminating other people and therefore as many patients less to care for. Do you intend to discuss this with your regional colleagues as part of a concerted action? Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u116	Mr Flahaux, AFMPS is ready to assist in facilitating the creation of the self-financing Seribox kit envisaged by Modus. As a first step, it will have to be checked under what status it will have to be placed on the market, i.e. whether it is a medicine or a medical device. Status determination depends on the exact context of the kit. Depending on it, the steps to be taken to introduce it into the market are different and the appropriate services of the AFMPS will guide Modus so that the steps are undertaken as easily as possible. There is already a derogation for sterile syringes and dressings to be delivered outside pharmacies as part of the syringe exchange program. Depending on the arguments supported by the associations and my regional colleagues, this derogation could be extended to the issue by automatons. A list of publicly available pharmaceuticals is available on the AFMPS website. The association in question, Modus, can of course contact AFMPS to obtain this list and get help. Second, action will be required at the federal level. For the rest, there will be discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u117	Madam Minister, thank you. I wanted to make you aware of this problem, which is better managed on the Dutch-speaking side than on the French-speaking side at the moment, when its consequences are extremely heavy on health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u118	Questions had already been asked about this, but perhaps there is something new.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u119	Minister, following the 2012 IPERGAY trial in France, confirmed by other international studies, on HIV prevention by taking before and after any sexual intercourse at risk of a specific antiretroviral, Truvada, the plans for prescribing this treatment have multiplied in several countries. In Belgium, in particular, the PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) project was launched, as part of a strategy to reduce sexual risks, for HIV-negative people who are particularly exposed to unprotected sexuality. Minister, for implementation under acceptable financial conditions for the public accounts, since it will be repaid, it was necessary that the price of this combination of treatments be reduced sharply. The passage of Truvada as a generic in the coming weeks is therefore timely. Its price will be reduced by 60%, from 475 to 190 euros the bottle of thirty tablets, which is still a substantial and "limiting" amount in granting this prevention tool. In India, the same generics are marketed at 50 euros per bottle. Of course, Gilead is entitled to receive the fair reward of the fruit of his research. However, the proper way to put it in generics is to wait a respectable time for pharmaceutical laboratories to enter their costs in a comfortable way. Truvada was marketed in 2004 and represents an annual income of more than €2 billion per year. Limiting prescriptions to certain target audiences, given the price, may still lead to the acquisition of these products on the net by non-cohort people. Madam Minister, how can you, as part of your agreement with the pharmaceutical industry, act in the direction of a drastic drop in Truvada's generics, especially since the Descovy, which is a new and less generating version of Truvada, intended for people with HIV, remains on the market at a price of 490 euros, which still augurs very well for Gilead? This pre-exposure device is implemented by other European countries. Is it not possible, given the mass effect resulting from this widely applied policy, to negotiate with Gilead in this direction? Do you intend to bring this matter to the Council of European Ministers of Health? Do you intend, if the price of this treatment falls sharply, to extend its access to a wider public, in order to further limit the number of contaminations which after a steady decline, stabilizes and unfortunately no longer decreases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u120	For Truvada already reimbursed for HIV-positive patients in combination with another anti-retroviral drug, a procedure is under way at the level of the Drug Reimbursement Commission, with a view to extending the pre-exposure prophylaxis refunds for people with high-risk behaviours of HIV infection. The scientific assessment has been completed for the time being. The question of the price will have to be discussed in the coming days. It is true that the patent of the medicine expires and generics can be admitted to the market from October 2017. That is why we are continuing the negotiations. But my services have found that it is also possible to order on the Internet the fixed combination of two medicines: Emtricitabine and Tenofovir disoproxil for less than 50 euros per month, including delivery costs. These elements will, of course, be taken into account in the discussions on the proposed price and the terms and conditions of reimbursement. Further information will therefore be available at the end of the procedure, i.e. the price discussion. We will also take into account the fact that, as early as October, some generics will arrive on the market. The price will have to decrease sharply. The main repayment decision was made. But the price is still under negotiation. It's still important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u121	I thank you for the progress that has been made and, more generally, I would like to congratulate you on the great increase in access to generic medicines that you have already been able to obtain and which helps to alleviate the budget of many households.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u122	Question No 15329 by Mrs Jadin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u123	Mrs. Veerle Heeren is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u124	Madam Minister, registration as an organ donor should be much simpler since 2011, because, under the impetus of your party colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne, an agreement was reached with then Minister of Health Onkelinx. Five years later it turns out it's still not that simple. One still has to fill out a form and have it registered with the municipality. It's a rather complicated procedure. The municipality then forwards the form to the National Register and so on. We have been asked about this by citizens and it is indeed not possible to do so online, while you are very committed to eHealth. Hence my questions. How come there isn't a simple online tool yet? If there is such a tool, it is the intention, and you are also behind it when can we expect it? Can you also give me figures of the number of registered organ donors who agree and the number of people who oppose organ donation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u125	Madam President, Madam Minister, there is an increasing number of awareness campaigns about organ donation, and I welcome this. In Liège, a campaign was carried out a few months ago by the CHU, in collaboration with the City and the Province. Even yesterday, an awareness-raising campaign was organized in this city. We know that citizens face difficulties in registering as donors. There is, however, a lack of information that is countered by awareness-raising campaigns, but they have to follow this administrative approach, which can be burdensome for the active part of the population, given the difficulty of access in some administrations after office hours. On the other hand, more and more municipalities now have electronic counters for ordering documents. I have been able to read, in various policy notes, many interventions in favour of modernising online administrative procedures through secure authentication. Although some arguments point to the role of identification and authentication by the sworn agent and the sensitivity of the medical data, I tend to think that an online authentication by identity card (which allows to verify the identity of a person) and by login would be sufficient to demonstrate his will as organ donor when it is envisaged by the government to be able to order an identity card online. Moreover, today, in the area of health, it is already possible to carry out a whole series of online approaches via secure authentication. Minister, what is your position on this? I therefore called in committee a few days ago, the Minister of the Interior, who sent me back to you. Would you be willing to invite all municipalities to allow citizens to register as organ donors via e-shops, which corresponds to a strong demand from the various associations that raise awareness of this issue? Could you consider amending the legislation to that effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u126	Madam President, on post-mortem organ donation, we know the so-called opt-out principle. The Law of 13 June 1986 on organ removal and transplantation lays down the precise modalities in Chapter III. The general principle is that organs intended for post-mortem transplantation may be removed unless it is established that resistance to such removal has been expressed. The doctor considering the removal of the organ must, under the law, inform himself of any possible resistance expressed by the potential donor. Everyone can use any means of expression to assert his opposition as long as it is communicated to the doctor by a letter, confidence to a loved one, will... However, the legislator has organized an optional procedure for recording the position vis-à-vis a post-mortem sampling in order to facilitate the information of doctors of the existence of such positions. Despite our opting-out system, anyone can express their express will to be a donor candidate for death or their explicit opposition. This statement helps to relieve the relatives of a deceased person who must no longer wonder whether the deceased had expressed an opposition during his lifetime in a manner other than that organized by the legislator, or to report this information to the doctor. Thus the will regarding organ donation can be officially expressed for or against by filling in a form to the municipality but, failing that, any citizen registered in the population register or in the register of foreigners for 6 months is a candidate donor. It is true that those who, on the one hand, wish to register explicitly as post-mortem organ donor or, on the other hand, wish to oppose it, are expected to make an administrative effort which must be made easier by current technology. A proposal has already been made by Mrs Fernandez-Fernandez to work with the identity card. It is currently the case that the civil servant must check the identity of the person concerned. It is absolutely essential to avoid that registration is under pressure, for example, that one should be registered by one's roommates or by a spouse who, instead of his wife, decides that she is not eligible, or rather as a post-mortem donor. Things still have to be cleared, but the card readers are also getting better, they are becoming more and more traceable, individualised and so on. At the moment, the policy cell is looking at the possible slopes to make that registration easier. There will also be further consultations on this subject. Finally, in relation to the recorded declarations,... On 6 February 2017, 247 748, i.e. almost 250 000 people, were registered as organ donors. 190 995 personen having registered an opposition. As a result, the number of people registered as donors continues to increase. That's good news. We also note the efforts undertaken by Beldonor, inter alia, through awareness-raising campaigns but also, initiatives in the head of the communes, local initiatives. In this regard, it is gratifying that there is public awareness. It is actually an opt-out system, so even if one is not registered. Since it's post mortem, it's asked the family and it's hard to know if anyone was for or against it. Together with Beldonor we recommend that you register it anyway. If there has been a sensitising action, as Mrs Fernandez-Fernandez says, then that is the result and that is what people are going to do. As is the case with all awareness-raising activities, they must always be repeated. In addition, when the media report that a life has been saved through a transplant, many people say they need to register. I did. My husband's been saying he's going to do it for a long time, too. As I'm pretty sure I'm gonna survive him, I know. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u127	That's the advantage we have, it's that we know that. We will write it in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u128	Thanks to these good neighbourhood health centers, for example. So thank you for your answer. I notice it's not a high number after all. I would have thought that a higher number of people would have registered in a positive way. I understand that this online tool will be there, but it will take some time. I understand this is still not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u129	In principle, everyone is a donor; this applies to the adults, not the children. So everyone's a donor, but it's about the emotions of the people who survive. Then it's hard to tell if anyone was for or against. It must be clarified immediately after death. We therefore recommend that registration be made on our own, while one can still do it. But of course, a lot of people say that they can do it anyway and that they will. If the decision has to be made, the family is, of course, emotionally turned upside down. Sometimes they stop it. So now it's just the people who say whatever my family says, I want my organs to be donated. They're going to register now. And then, of course, there are the opponents. That's their right, too. They are even more motivated. However, it is rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u130	But with an online tool, you're going to appeal to a whole generation of young people who aren't bothering to take a day's leave to get that document.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u131	I also think that we should modernise that system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u132	Minister, I understand the difficulty but I can't understand why there is no will for this online recording. You yourself set the example of your husband. Maybe if he could do it from home, he would have done it already. This is proof that even in sensitized people like your husband, there is a laziness that I can quite understand, to carry out the process. I'm glad you're gonna survive him and if we need his organs tomorrow, he can save lives, except not everyone is as resistant as you and maybe there will be people who won't be able to testify. When we see today the lack and the waiting lists for organ donors, I think it would be worthwhile to have a courageous gesture and a dynamic to allow the use of these new technologies because at worst, what could be risked? One could risk taking the heart from someone who, at some point, might have been forced in front of his computer to declare himself as an organ donor. If I weigh the pros and cons, I think there may be something to do about it. I hope that our discussion will have made your reflection on this matter mature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u133	Question No 15356 by Mrs Hufkens is deleted. She didn't tell us anything and asked us. Joined Questions Nos 15389 and 16194 by Mrs Dedry and Mr de Lamotte are postponed, together with Questions Nos 15420 and 15419 by Mrs Fonck. Question No 15431 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u134	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns a very interesting proposal from the University of Ghent. It is a proposal on the principles and methodology to begin the exercise of the recalibratement of the nomenclature. I'm skipping principles. They're in the question I put. Do you agree with the proposals, for example, for a better remuneration for non-technical activities, for the alignment of fees at an average income level, for more transparent funding by three parts, namely part for the doctor's efforts, part for associated costs and part for coordination and communication, for financial incentives for higher quality and less overconsumption and for greater transparency and more price security for the patient through increased covenanting and less wage supplements? There is also a proposal for a flat-rate part. Several proposals have already been made. How do you feel about that very interesting proposal, which may inspire you in your plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u135	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, we have of course taken note of the plan of Professor Annemans, a health economist at Ghent University, who published it together with his colleague on behalf of the General Syndicate of Medical Experts of Belgium. It is true that there are interesting slopes and suggestions, but I will not anticipate the conclusions of the working group which is due to start this year and which should make recommendations which should achieve the objectives of the government agreement on the revision of the nomenclature. It is also included in the Medicomut agreement that this working party should be established. An initiative would be taken in the course of 2017. The Government Agreement also provides that tariffs should be aligned in a transparent manner with the real cost of delivery and that intellectual performance should be better valued, in particular for bottleneck disciplines, but also for coordination, consultation and coordination in multidisciplinary cooperation. Finally, the review should continue to provide incentives for specialisation and productivity. I believe that the working group should certainly take the study with it and get to work. That was already agreed. In general, including in the case of hospital reform, we want quality to be rewarded more. That's gonna be a huge job. You ask me whether I agree to create a completely new list of performances per discipline. I do not know, but they will have to develop a methodology in this area. In the meantime, there have already been revisions of the nomenclature, for example on cardiology, when the vector cardiogram has been abolished. You remember the whole fuss. However, this is a huge work, even within one specialty. If this is to be done for the whole nomenclature, a certain method will have to be used. It's gonna take a lot of work. In the past, a long time ago, together with Mr Jo Vandeurzen, in temporary non-suspecto, I tabled a legislative proposal which was also approved at that time. Back then, we had a health economist in that group. It was a working group which should have worked within the RIZIV. Measures were taken, but unfortunately not far enough. However, more measures have been taken in the context of the Medicomut Agreements for the review of the nomenclature, including on supplements. This year they will have to come out of their mouths to start with that. It is good that the study of the health economists, Professor Annemans and his colleague whose name now escapes me, can be included. This will require a great deal of consultation and discussion, but it is necessary. However, it will not be a walk in the park, and I have no illusions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic597x.u136	Madam Minister, thank you and I am therefore also in happy expectation.
