ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u1	Mr Senesael, either you are asking your question alone or I give the floor to Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Muylle and Mr Blanchart. But the latter two are not here. They didn't tell me. If Mrs Fonck is not here, then I will give the floor to Mr Senesael. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u2	You're the president, and so you're the one who decides.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u3	All power in the presidency!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u4	Madam President, I must call Mr Frédéric who is in the other building to attend the Attentats Committee. Could you give me a little sign when it's his turn, because I see that he's asking his question in point 7? Since there are a lot of questions attached, I guess it won't be right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u5	In any case, we will work according to the members present. If necessary, we will put questions ahead of his.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u6	Madam Secretary, I submitted my question in September. In the meantime, if there are any updates that I haven't seen pass, I apologize. In the sixth edition of the dietary recommendations of the Supreme Health Council, some directives remained unchanged compared to the previous edition, but adjustments were also made to bring the recommendations in line with current scientific knowledge. One of the main concerns is the use of salt. I do not need to explain to you what that is an important risk factor for. The High Health Council therefore recommends a reduction in the added salt in processed products such as bread, cheese and meat products and in prepared meals and meals at school. The High Health Council also recommends that the population be informed so that purchases can be adjusted. I suppose you've taken note of the report in the meantime. In what way are you going to work with that? Are you taking concrete measures to reduce salt in foodstuffs? If so, what do they consist of? What's the timeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u7	Mrs Jiroflée, thank you for the question. Of course, we have taken note of the nutritional recommendations of the Supreme Health Council. The services of the Public Health Office have been working for more than ten years to improve the nutritional status of the population, both through biomonitoring, adaptation of the composition of food products and by sensitisation of the population. In 2009, an agreement was signed with the food industry FEVIA and the distribution Comeos to reduce the salt consumption of the population by 10% by the end of 2012 by adjusting the composition of products and changes in nutritional behaviour. Another agreement with the bread sector was signed the same year, so that bakers would use joded salt and comply with the legal standard on salt in bread. In the meantime, the investigation has shown that the salt intake of the population decreased by almost 10% between 2009 and 2015. The results of the recent food consumption survey carried out by the Scientific Institute for Public Health confirm the decreasing trend. On average, however, we are not yet at the recommended amount of up to 5 grams of salt per person per day. The latter is the subject of further research by the FPS Public Health Services, who have to consider what lessons we can draw from the dietary recommendations and food consumption survey and where we can take additional initiatives to further reduce salt consumption. A decrease of 10% is good, but the target of 5 grams of salt per person per day is still to be achieved. Furthermore, the High Health Council recommends that the intake of industrial trans fatty acids be reduced as far as possible. In the meantime, the results of the food consumption survey show that the average share of trans fats in the total energy intake of the population decreased from 0,7 % to 0,4 % between 2004 and 2014, i.e. almost half. We are doing better than, among other things, Denmark, where, by the way, a law on transfats applies, and also better than the Netherlands. After applying a methodological correction, the experts at the WIV estimate that the decrease is actually even greater. Analyses by the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain would also show that transfats have virtually disappeared from our diet. There appears to be a bigger problem in other European Member States. The debate will thus also take place in the European Commission, following the publication of a communication by the European Commission on trans fats in December 2015. So Europe is also working on this. Since the food market is open, it is important for us that other Member States should also try to avoid trans fatty acids in their products, because of course our consumers are not only buying Belgian products. It is also in that context that, in view of the influence of salts, trans fatty acids and sugars on health, the pact with industry, FEVIA and Comeos to reduce the energy value of products by 5% from 2012 onwards has been renewed. The commitment is now up to 2020. In the meantime, of course, we are also carrying out the necessary checks to check the results against the pact we have concluded. There is also, of course, further consultation with the other competent entities within the framework of a general approach to the link between nutrition and health. There are several ways to deal with that. There is, first of all, the sensitization of the population to eat and drink healthy. I believe that this month's action to do it for a month without alcohol is also part of that. In the last few weeks, although it has been appreciated that Members of this House would drink like Templars, I am nevertheless glad that we are all sitting here with water, coffee and tea. I believe sensitization is important. The same applies to training. We know the portions play a role. They'll take all of that, too. Furthermore, the composition and manner of preservation and preservation are important. We have to work on everything separately. The aim is to coordinate actions in consultation with the Länder, which will, of course, give better results. This also has to do with the competence of the Minister of Education in the context of healthy nutrition at school and in sport. I am thinking of the portions of the prepared meal given to the children. We keep working and moving in the right direction. That is why the food consumption surveys are also a good barometer, indicating where we stand and where we should go. If people leave things to their own devices, then things are going in the wrong direction again. I believe that we should keep knocking on the nail and that the food consumption surveys do prove their worth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u8	Madam Secretary, your answer is reassuring. I am glad that you are referring to the Länder, because it is mainly the meals at school that cause us considerable concern. If one has to start somewhere, it's there. So it's a good thing there's cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u9	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to information published in the press, the Flemish counterpart of the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium pleads for the creation of a new sector that would train practitioner assistants. Such training would help, in particular, to alleviate the workload of our doctors - whose recent study showed that they hold the European record for the longest working week - as these practitioner assistants could take over some of the doctor's duties and would therefore have more skills than nurses. Minister, what is your position regarding the introduction of practice assistant training? Have you ever had any contact with the doctors' representatives on this subject? If so, what was the content of these meetings? What are the positions on this issue in the south of the country? If not, are there short-term meetings planned? What suites do you intend to book for this request? Do you intend to set up pilot projects in this area, as is the case in some European countries such as the Netherlands, Germany, England or Ireland? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, this is not the first time I've asked you about this issue. Since then, however, we have received additional information. Indeed, we have received a consolidated notice available from the Public Health FPS. I won't read it again because you know him well. It is true that, in this opinion, the fact that, beyond a set of elements, you want further information on four strands of issues is taken up. You also know that other opinions were issued, such as that of the Higher Council of Specialists and General Practitioners, which delivered an own-initiative opinion in June 2016, as did the Federal Council of Nurses, which issued an opinion on its own behalf at the same time. I tabled this question in September! In addition, the National Council of Paramedical Professions also addressed the issue and delivered an opinion. This issue is important, because of the chronicity of care logic and the way in which our health care system must evolve, but also in relation to the articulation of chronic care work with the patient, between the general practitioner and the home nurse. This is also the challenge of the multidisciplinary approach, of supporting front-line practice with a team approach. Today we are at a crossroads in defining the future model of health care. Some issues should not be overlooked. Multiplying or inventing a new profession does not seem appropriate to me at all, because we already have professionals who could actually work in a new model of enhanced cooperation. The model of a general practitioner working in partnership with a home nurse must be valued, especially for chronic patients. If we invent a new profession, she'll come to telescope with this model. In addition, this would be tantamount to not relying on professionals who invest in their profession with great expertise. I therefore plead for this model that I mentioned. It was important to take stock of the various opinions that had been delivered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u11	Thank you, Mrs Fonck and Mr Senesael. First of all, Mr.Senesael, I have read this opinion from the Royal Academy of Dutch-speaking Medicine. In order to avoid any confusion, I would like to point out that the Royal Academy of Dutch-speaking Medicine, to which you refer, does not speak of a practice assistant but of an assistant physicist, which is freely translated in French as an "adjunct to the doctor". According to this academy, this profile corresponds preferably to a master's degree in biomedical sciences and would essentially have medical skills. The practice assistant Ms. Fonck spoke of refers instead to an administrative support function. This assistant is authorized to perform certain technical services which are sometimes performed by nurses. This is an application that comes mainly from the first line. That is why I have requested a consolidated opinion from the Conseil supérieur des médecins spéciales et des médecins généralistes, the Conseil fédérale des professions paramédicales and the Conseil fédérale de l'art infirmaire. These are the three bodies to be consulted when considering the creation of this kind of profession. This opinion came to me at the end of September. None of these federal councils have a truly positive view of the creation of a new profession, as described by Ms. Fonck. Advisory Boards note that there are already titles such as nursing practitioners, medical laboratory technologists who are able to assist a physician or a front-line group practice. Since the organization of the first line has been defed, it is now up to the Communities to consult on this matter and to provide for the means, if any. In the coming months, there will also be a consultation on legislation to entrust certain medical skills to other providers, including nurses. Therefore, it does not seem necessary to introduce a new profession, either as an assistant physicist or as a practice assistant. I therefore feel that it is not appropriate to launch pilot projects to further explore this path. I think I've been quite clear at our last meeting, but as you said, since then, I've received all the advice I asked for. Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have asked for opinions from all the actors involved in this debate. In conclusion, I do not think we will follow the lead that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u12	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensiveness of her answer, since she has taken up all the considerations contained in the question and has given a clear answer on the basis of the opinions she has obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u13	Madam Minister, we therefore share the same position on this point. I do not think it is wise or appropriate to open up access to a new profession. I will, however, allow myself a comment. You said that home nurses were working hard on administrative issues. I think you know that, but it is sometimes good to recall, how this partnership between a general practitioner and a home nurse can bring major added value, not only at the administrative level but also at the level of care. To take only one example, nurses' expertise in all matters related to wound care, including making decisions about the type of dressing or care to be performed at home, makes the nurse a partner in the decisions of the general practitioner. There is a real major added value and, in this respect, there is a partnership to recreate and evolve through this tandem at home. I therefore share your position and that is so much better, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u14	Questions Nos 14004, 14005 and 14006 by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u15	Minister, my question is about the reform of the College of Physicians. I have already had the opportunity to ask you several times about the reforms that I consider necessary, of the Order of Physicians, in terms of its missions and its functioning. Each time, you told me that it was up to the Council of the Order to submit its reform proposals to you, which will then be translated into an order. You announced June/July 2016 as the date for submitting proposals from the National Council of the Order. The National Council has issued opinions and put forward proposals. I think he handed them over to you. It is therefore up to you to decide on the content of this reform and how you will transpose it, since the Council's task is only advisory. In any case, this body likes to recall this nuance. I would like to know what was the status of the drafting of the ad hoc bill? Can we have the proposals that have been submitted by the National Council of the Order, as well as your appreciation of them? When can the examination of this reform be put on Parliament's agenda to discuss it, since an order does not necessarily go through Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Secretary, the Order of Doctors and the Order of Pharmacies were established in 1938 and 1949 respectively. In 1967, they became Royal Decree No. 79 reform. In the meantime, we are almost fifty years on without their structure and their rules of operation having changed. We have to note that the Order of Doctors has certainly been the subject of a great deal of criticism, both inside and outside the medical corps, since its creation and in the run-up to it. After fifty years Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the professions of health care at last make way for a new legal framework which will redesign the distribution of competences within health care. In that legal framework, a transversal deontological chamber is established for all healthcare professions. The purpose of this Deontological Chamber is to establish a generic deontological code containing minimum requirements for all professions. It would be purely an advisory structure dealing with cross-border occupational topics. However, the existing ordinal authorities would continue to exist, including the Order of Doctors, the Order of Pharmacies, and the Psychologists' Commission. However, the question arises as to whether the Order of Doctors will still be included in this new framework. After all, this reform offers an excellent opportunity to abolish or at least thoroughly reform this old structure, which, as you know, is under heavy pressure from various quarters. I have, by the way, tabled a legislative proposal along these lines with Mr Maya Detiège. Madam Secretary, when will you put the question of reform of the Order of Doctors on the table in the Council of Ministers and Parliament? Is there, in your opinion, a need for this Order of Doctors after the establishment of a transversal deontological chamber, established for all health professions of Royal Decree No. 78? Are you prepared to question the purely advisory nature of the transversal council in the aforementioned royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u17	Mrs Gerkens, with regard to your first question, we can only note that the legal framework of Royal Decree No 79 on the Order of Physicians no longer meets the current ethical needs of our health care. On the one hand, ethics must focus primarily on quality health care for the patient and on the assistance and support of physicians, taking into account interdisciplinary collaboration. On the other hand, this legal framework provides insufficient guarantees for transparent, professional and impartial disciplinary proceedings. Criticism of the Order of Physicians is justified with respect to the shortcomings of the current regulation. However, the Order itself has recognized these grievances. That is why he has been trying for several years to provide an answer within the current legal limits. For your second question, I can inform you that a concept note is being drafted. It will prove useful as a reference document for the development of a draft bill for the Order of Physicians. This note will come to you after consultation with the Order – which has already taken place. Further studies are still needed. I will possibly consult with other experts. Mr Hedebouw, your question addresses a more generic approach to the deontology of healthcare professions as defined in the coordinated law on the exercise of health care professions of 10 May 2015. This was also mentioned at the start conference.Health calls.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Under the umbrella of a new Health Occupations Council, a transversal deontological chamber is set up for all health professions. The purpose of that deontological chamber is to establish a generic deontological code containing minimum requirements for all health professions. It is a purely advisory structure which also deals with cross-border deontological topics. The existing ordinal bodies, such as the Order of Doctors, the Order of Pharmacies and the Psychologists' Commission, continue to exist as they are responsible for a professionally specific deontology and also for disciplinary law. The existing ordinal authorities will be able to designate representatives who will be present in the Deontological Board for the respective appeal. The focus should be on developing a positive deontology that focuses primarily on quality healthcare for the patient and services and support for doctors, such as in the Arts in need project. The advice that deals with specific cases in the patient-doctor relationship now provides a necessary complement to and nuance of the health right. Moreover, the trial in disciplinary proceedings by persons of their own profession chosen by oneself ensures correct, nuanced and professional judgment. The existing orders should therefore be supplemented by different orders rather than being brought together under one roof. Finally, we note that health care is becoming more and more inter- and multidisciplinary. Deontological standardisation must also take into account the inter- and multidisciplinary nature. The deontological chamber within the Health Appeals Board, as already mentioned in the concepts of the reform of the Royal Decree 78, intends to respond to this. It is true that the body only has advisory powers on interdisciplinary deontological issues, but this will not prevent, for example, the future Supervisory Board of the Council for Quality Practice in Health Care from referring to those opinions when taking measures, when the quality of the healthcare provided by a particular healthcare provider is at risk. After all, a competent healthcare provider also acts in accordance with the existing deontological framework. I have already discussed this conceptual note in detail in the Cabinet. Of course, the Order took its time for the reform that she herself drew towards her, but I was pleasantly surprised. I'm quoted in that. In the run-up to the 2014 elections, as Secretary of State, but also as a former MP active in the Health and Social Affairs Committee, like many other MEPs here, I was invited to tell you how the Order works and to which it no longer responds. It was just a disciplinary institution. However, the patient was not involved in any way. When there were complaints, the patient did not know whether they were followed up and whether there was a conviction. That was all classified. The Order is far removed from the reforms it wants to implement. It also wants to be much more transparent and pay more attention to a modern way of dealing with patients, who need to get all the information about their health. The next step is the political check-up that will take place when all final bottlenecks are resolved. A preliminary draft will then be submitted. Mr Hedebouw, I understand your impatience and I am equally impatient, but I think we will get there now. It's been a lot of work. The Order has tested everything well and has taken a few years, but it will be for many years. It is important to do such a great exercise properly. The Order wanted to do that himself. As you know, the government agreement states that the politicians will not interfere directly, but we must ensure that patient protection is improved rather than reversed. That's what it's about. It is necessary to take into account the multi- and inter-disciplinary workings involving other healthcare professions. Now there were gaps there. We are indeed moving towards a different organisational model in our healthcare system, where every healthcare provider will assume his responsibility and there we will no longer put one doctor above who may be responsible for everything, and we all know that this system has known his childhood diseases. They have delivered their conceptual note and it is now ready for further review. After all, we must ensure that not only the doctors, but also all the other caregivers concerned, can express their opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u18	In reply, I would say that you are right to say that the council of the order has changed its way of doing things. It is true that they also invited me and that I had the opportunity to discuss with its members the bill that Ecolo-Groen has tabled on this subject. They agreed to change the purpose of their mission, which was initially to "save the honour and dignity of the profession", by talking more about quality care and collaboration between care providers, and placing these elements as concerns. That's what I read in the papers. I also read about their willingness to change the way they apprehend and carry out their monitoring and sanctioning duties. Finally, I retained this idea of a senior ethics board, a ethics chamber, which was also part of our bill. From what I've read, they're actually moving in the right direction. I know that they consulted doctors through Region, Flemish doctors, Walloons and Brussels. However, I regret that all this work is going on somewhat in secret. I would find it interesting that this note and these elements are accessible and enrich exchanges and collaboration. Of course, I'll let them know directly. I find it a pity to keep a confidential side to the negotiations and to the end of the work and the consultations. We don't know when you'll be coming. If I understand correctly, we still have to wait for the last two consultations. I pass the floor to Mr. Hedebouw and I will say, to make the bridge, that we have kept in our bill the possibility of organs such as this by radically changing the way we do things, because we do not think that the courts should be burdened either. If there are no more organizations that have neutrality and objectivity to deal with these different cases, then the courts will be drowned. I am not sure that the objectives pursued will be achieved in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u19	Madam Secretary, I think we really do share the need to have a cross-cutting council. However, I think it would have been better to give a binding aspect to that council with perhaps an opinion from the Order of Medicine. That mystery, telling you to wait, I can't. It's not going to happen that the government has to wait for what a private party like the Order itself is going to decide about itself. In this sense, I believe that public services should be better able to supervise them themselves, and that this transversal council should therefore be more binding than just an advisory role. As far as timing is concerned, we have not been given any clear timing here. I am counting on the Minister to be able to communicate when the matter comes back to the Council of Ministers. We will soon know more clearly what is in these different texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u20	Minister, my question concerns the use of psychotropic drugs among young people, specifically Ritaline. It is prescribed regularly to children while several studies show that this medication should not be taken lightly. I take into account two reports: that of Swissmedic and, more specifically, that of the British Medical Journal, in which an article, based on 70 studies, notes that "the risk of suicide and assault has been doubled in children and adolescents taking antidepressants." This paper suggests that "minimize the use of antidepressants in children, adolescents and young adults as serious side effects appear to be important and the benefits are less." Minister, as a doctor, you are well aware of the subject. Where is the consultation, if any, with health actors today on this issue? Would this not merit an ethical and societal debate in Belgium? Have you identified any specific initiatives in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u21	Minister, I will use the same article as my colleague Thiéry. Based on 70 studies, in which 18,256 patients participated, it indicates that the risk of suicide and assault is twice as high in children and adolescents taking antidepressants. For adults, the article states that the fact of not noting an increase does not mean that there is no increase, but that the information is lacking to be able to affirm such an effect. The article makes the suggestions that my colleague has already mentioned. So I won't take them back. Minister, have you, as I suppose, been able to read this article? Have any other recent studies been conducted on the subject? Should children and adolescents be considered to be at real risk by using such psychotropic substances? If so, what are they? Can you provide us with an update on the prescription of antidepressants to children and adolescents in our country? Do you consider it necessary to take new initiatives in this context? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u22	Minister, I am responding to the same article. A Swiss doctor drew attention to this problem. I visited the BelPEP (Belgian Psychotropics Expert Platform) website in the hope of finding additional information about this. This multidisciplinary platform aims to promote the proper use of psychoactive drugs (including sleeping pills and sedatives, antidepressants and antipsychotics). I found that there was a working group on the appropriate use of psychostimulants in children and young adults. This is only about drugs prescribed to treat attention deficit disorders, with or without hyperactivity. There appears to be no link between the use of these drugs and the suicide rate. On the other hand, the Swissmedic website states that "methylphenidate contained in these drugs may be the cause of psychiatric disorders, such as anxiety and insomnia or life fatigue and suicidal ideas. It is also likely to trigger or reinforce suicidal behaviour." As for the proper use of antidepressants, it is dealt with by another working group and it is clearly stated that it concerns adults only. It therefore seems that the use of antidepressants by young people is not a priority. Minister, do you have any scientific information on the use of psychostimulants and antidepressants by young people? What are the side effects? Are there studies in Belgium or abroad that link the use of these drugs to the suicide rate among young people? Regardless of whether or not there is a link between these drugs and the suicide rate, what measures are being taken - or planned - at the federal level to limit their use? Has the BelPEP working group on psychostimulants undertaken any concrete actions? Why not extend its activities to the use of antidepressants in young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u23	Madam President, Madam Minister, the consumption of psychotropic and antipsychotic drugs among minors is on the rise in our country. Indeed, it would appear that the number of "daily defined doses" (DDDs) delivered in pharmacies for both types of substances, among young people aged 12 to 17, would have increased from more than 500,000 to nearly one million units per year and from 740,924 to nearly one million units per year during 2006-2015, respectively. The figures for young people aged 6 to 11 would be equally appealing, as they would have increased from 81,180 to 84,851 DDD for psychotropic drugs and from 207,895 to 339,350 DDD for antipsychotic drugs. These figures raise a number of questions in terms of the preservation of public health. I do not go back to what my colleagues have already pointed out. So, Madam Minister, according to the information at your disposal, how can this situation be objectively explained? What are the reasons for these increases? Do you have figures for 2016? If so, what was the trend compared to other years? Has this increase been confirmed from year to year? Are Belgium's figures in line with the European average? Notwithstanding the excellent work of the medical profession, is there an open thought between your services and representatives of health practitioners to limit this increase? In this regard, what is the assessment of the Belgian Pyschotropics Experts Platform (Belgian Pyschotropics Experts Platform) which works for the proper and rational use of these psychotropic substances?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u24	Minister, I will not repeat the references or figures on which my colleagues have based themselves. I would simply add that you yourself, in one of your statements, say that "you have a certain chill with regard to the taking of medicines that can alter the mental state of an individual, a fortiori in the case of children and adolescents. I do not exclude, you say, that this is sometimes necessary, but I am very concerned about the figures. We will see if our measurements at the field level will reduce the consumption of drugs." However, you do not seem to fully recognize the link between the use of these drugs and the suicidal risk. Minister, have you or are you planning to undertake a study to assess the number of children, adolescents involved in the use of psychotropic drugs? What about the evolution of these figures in recent years? Would it not be appropriate to further analyse the side effects of this type of medication and, primarily, those related to increasing suicidal trends? What concrete measures do you intend to implement to reduce the number of cases in which these drugs are prescribed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u25	Colleagues, eight questions were asked about an article. This is a fairly large figure. However, it is surprising that these issues come from representatives of only one part of the country. However, like all medicines authorised in Belgium, psychotropic drugs are continuously monitored by the pharmacovigilance services of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. Within the framework of EU legislation on pharmacovigilance, there is a system for signal detection and evaluation. By definition, a signal is information about a new or poorly documented adverse event that is potentially caused by a drug and requires further investigation. Information on adverse reactions in the paediatric population is particularly monitored. The European Medicines Agency has a number of important responsibilities for the development of paediatric medicinal products. These responsibilities were entrusted to it by a European Union Paediatric Regulation which enters into force in 2007. This regulation introduces radical changes in the regulatory environment for paediatric medicines aimed at better protecting the health of children in the European Union. The summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet reflecting current knowledge are regularly updated and easily accessible on the AFMPS website. The increased risk of suicidal behaviour or hostility is described, for example, for antidepressants in the class of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. In addition, the AFMPS Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use is discussing subjects such as the one you have mentioned on your own initiative at the initiative of the Agency or myself, with a view to giving an opinion, if any, on possible additional measures. Adequate use of psychotropic substances among all groups of the population is an important topic that concerns the competences of all public authorities and different health professionals. They must be aware of their major responsibilities with regard to the indication and prescription of medicinal products. It is also our task as a public authority to ensure that they are sufficiently supported so that they can arrive at well-founded clinical indications. I have already taken a number of initiatives to this end under the new policy on mental health care for children and young people, notably through the cross-sectoral care, consultation and liaison programme, which is a very good example. This discussion has been going on for many years. I remember, as a young member of the House, asking Ms. Aelvoet about the fact that Rilatine was on over-the-counter. We didn't have any numbers at that time. There were no Farmanet data, because it was an over-the-counter product, with all the consequences. The successor, Mr Demotte, made the product compulsory. Afterwards it took a long time, even after advice, before the product was limited in time and use for children. It is not true that the entire population or all children in Belgium are on the Rilatine. We sometimes cannot explain it, but the use is sometimes very regional. Higher usage rates are now certainly due to prescribing behaviour and also to the way children are treated with concentration problems, pressure or stress. We must be able to continue to work on this at both the level of education and in the schools and in all the prescribers. I think that is very important. I also find it very dangerous to prescribe such centrally working medicines to children and adolescents with so many side effects. I have been a doctor for twenty-five years and I have never prescribed such medications to a minor, because I didn't really think it was the best way to help. For this reason, we are also focusing on liaison functions, on at-home teams, in order to provide that care in other ways, for example by providing more psychological support, instead of just giving a pill and turning the magazine upside down. I can't stress that enough. I would therefore like to thank Members for their questions. We will certainly work on that. I will continue to ensure that the use of antidepressants and other centrally-acting drugs is brought down by children, adolescents and adults. We are champions in taking such medicines, with all the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u26	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response. I made it clear in my speech that I realized that the minister was aware of the issue. As a doctor, I know everyone is paying attention to it. Without making it a Community problem, it is true that this type of medication is more prescribed in francophonie than in Flanders. This can be a question of information. I understand that consultation or debate is taking place with health actors, which is extremely important. I believe that it would also be interesting to organise a kind of ethical and societal debate, as I proposed in my question, and on its basis, to draw a number of conclusions and pass them on to the medical profession as a whole, with the aim of raising awareness among prescribers of the risk that is not always sufficiently well estimated. I know very well that the prescription is sometimes easy, especially since there is a request from the parents - it is surreal but it is like this - and the doctor, by definition, complies. This awareness is all the more important as the package leaflet is regularly updated and it is precisely through this that the doctor can be made aware, and even the pharmacists who deliver it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u27	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response. I did not imagine that she was not aware of, nor did she attach importance to, this challenging issue. I do not like Community comparisons, but in any case the study which I have come to know of did not refer to these subtle territorial divisions at European level. You have alluded to this: it is at European level that important control is exercised for the preservation of children's health in particular. I do not know if we need an ethical and societal debate, I find the formula very pleasant to hearing. I want health professionals in the field to be more involved in the matter in practice. By whom? I don't know! Is it through your administration or through a circular, in short, everything is imaginable, but the existing problem being recognized, I think it would not be pointless to remind it - you certainly do - or to organize a debate to focus on the subject. But I think that it is mainly the prescribers on the ground who need to be sensitized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I was also a little concerned by your reflection on the fact that it is going southerly than northerly. Is this a question of information?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u29	I said that I have no question on the Dutch-speaking side, whereas there are, for example, regions where a lot of Rilatin is taken in Flanders. Normally, the incidence is a few children in a class, but in some schools it is almost all students who are under Rilatine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u30	I am concerned that, as my colleague has said, it would be interesting to have contact with the federated entities in order to perhaps develop something, such as stimulating school management and the whole school environment in terms of learning about the dangers of these drugs, because I am sure that there is, of course, a lack of information among those who are not part of the medical community but are responsible for the education of children and young people. I think this may be a way forward for the future, as, of course, the intervention of psychologists and psychotherapy. There, psychotherapists will have their part to play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u31	That's not true, what you're saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u32	You said it yourself you needed psychological help.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u33	No, no, no! What's important? It's first of all to have a diagnosis of the child's condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u34	And that makes it possible not to give any medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u35	Yes or a treatment! Treatment is possible, but diagnosis is required first. We cannot explain why in some schools, eight out of ten children need Rilatine, while two communes further on, there is only one in ten. We can't explain it. But one thing is certain: now it is delivered on prescription. Seventeen years ago, it wasn't. We were in ignorance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u36	That's good. We've moved in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u37	It's just the beginning! Doctors are also called upon to prescribe. We must therefore work together on all these axes. The FPS Public Health conducts awareness campaigns to educators, teachers and parents, pointing out that pills are not Smarties. We must continue to work on all these axes. With all due respect for this discussion, however, we cannot compare apples with pears.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u38	It is not in this sense that I have expressed myself. I sincerely believe that medication can be avoided through psychological help and support. These are not necessarily sick children but are suffering. And we can do a lot without using drugs. That was my point!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u39	I would just like to thank the minister for her answers. Without entering into a controversy, I think that this is an important subject, on which we must keep an eye on in order to follow developments in a precise way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u40	For my part, I would like to stress the need to work at all levels, because there are pressures on the part of schools that now bear only children who do not comply with the proper behaviour expected of them and who send them to the doctor, accompanied by their parents who claim that the teacher has advised such treatment. It is the physician's responsibility to refuse to comply with this unacceptable request. Consideration must be given to the proper diagnosis of these young people, but also to alternatives to treatment during problems, such as psychotherapeutic intervention, which can replace or accompany medicines. There is a need to establish a much wider panel of interventions than is currently being used with too much ease. I would also like to stress the need to continue studies on the side effects of these medicines. In this context, it is not enough to work at Belgian level, because there are many cases that need to be addressed by pharmaceutical companies in the evaluation of their products.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u41	Minister, it is not because I ask a question about the diversion of the Tramadol by amazement that there are only Francophones who are interested in this problem. In North and West Africa, but also in Asia and the Middle East, as in Mashrek, Tramadol, a drug-using molecule in the analgesic class, is diverted to the use of narcotics. To do this, this powerful analgesic, synthetic derivative of opium, being issued in most countries by prescription, "toxiccomanes" users supply themselves on the Internet, where it is offered in overdosed form. In this form, it causes some euphoria and is used for recreational purposes, but also to relieve the pains of long days of labor. Of course, the excessive use of this drug becomes problematic, since Tramadol comes out of its pharmaceutical purpose, both in its use and its dosage. He thus creates a physical and psychological dependence, hindering any abrupt cessation of his consumption. The expansion of its misuse is fuelling increasing traffic, which is estimated annually in hundreds of tons of products manufactured and sold. This recreational use of Tramadol has also become a growing practice in Europe. Can you tell us what is happening in our country? Is the use of this product important? Is it being trafficked? Does the use of this drug have harmful, serious health consequences? Has this happened for some of its users in Belgium? Has this issue been the subject of discussions and decisions within the European Council of Health Ministers? How can we act to avoid any potential addiction and health problems associated with misuse of Tramadol? Do you intend to carry out information campaigns on this subject, possibly with the Communities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u42	According to data from the Belgian pharmaceutical association, the number of prescribed daily doses of Tramadol in officin is gradually increasing between 2006 (17.5 million doses) and 2015 (25 million doses). The increase is significant. According to data from the Treatment demand indicator, which resumes treatment requests in 2015, Tramadol was mentioned as a problematic substance in only fourteen episodes of registered treatments. This represents 0.05% of treatment episodes recorded in 2015. In eight out of fourteen cases, this substance was the main cause of problems to patients. Only one of the patients injects it; the others ingest it. The problem of diversion of this product has not yet been the subject of a specific decision by the European Council of Health Ministers. Like all medicines, Tramadol is associated with the possibility of side effects. This is true at therapeutic doses, but obviously even more so in the context of misuse since the doses used are higher. In particular, respiratory depression may occur and undesirable psychiatric effects are also possible. The person who prescribes this medication should know what he or she prescribes, explain to the patient how to take it, what side effects are possible and avoid prescribing too many doses per patient. Otherwise, for pain, it is a drug often used after surgery or when you suffer with difficult treatments, such as cancers or as a result of major surgery. In these cases, it has its added value. It is a very powerful and effective painkiller, but it has side effects that can be fatal like respiratory depression that causes death. It is also known that some take "cocktails" including benzodiazepines. The effects are cumulative, which is very dangerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The meaning of my question is first and foremost an awareness. In view of the figures you have given us, a 35% increase in consumption has been recorded. But this increase – I imagine you share my point of view – does not seem to correspond to a real need. You have highlighted the risks. You mentioned respiratory depression. You have also drawn attention to the effectiveness of this medicine in some cases. In any case, doctors will have to be made aware, again, of the interesting but also risky use of Tramadol.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u44	Madam President, Minister, the debate on the potential carcinogenic effects of aluminum salts used in deodorants has recently resurfaced. Faced with a high prevalence of breast cancer in the upper outer quarter of the torso, a recent study of laboratory mice was conducted. It showed that exposed to doses much lower than those used in cosmetics, animals developed significant tumours and cellular disorders. In previous studies, the lack of real-world observation, and therefore evidence of toxicity in humans, including breast cancer, had been an argument for non-prohibition of these cosmetic molecules. However, many manufacturers now offer products without aluminum hydrochloride, aluminum chloride or natural alum stone. This translucent mineral salt turns into an aluminium oxide or hydroxide in contact with water, which would be harmless. Minister, what information do you have about this? Have you had any exchanges on this issue with your European colleagues? Is a study in Belgium or Europe under way or planned on this issue? Do you intend to carry out a study on the possible effects of the molecules of hydrochloride and aluminium chloride on the occurrence of breast cancers in Belgian cancer services? Do you intend to do the same to verify the safety of the natural alum stone? How do you intend to rule on health protection in the face of this potential risk? Is it possible, in the name of the precautionary principle, to prohibit the use of hydrochloride and aluminium chloride in products for sale in Belgium? Do you intend to question the European Commission on this subject? Natural compounds such as antifungal and antibacterial essential oils, such as lavender, eucalyptus, tea tree or palmarosa, appear to be effective in controlling the effects of sweating. Do you intend to promote natural products as an alternative to the products in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u45	Madam President, I note that my colleague is an expert on this subject, beyond the alum stone that everyone knows. This study was published in Switzerland; my colleague Flahaux referred to it. It highlights the fact that the presence of aluminum salts causes tumours in the tested guinea pigs. Aluminum salts are present in eight out of ten deodorants because of their anti-sweat properties. However, this study is controversial. Swiss researchers indicate that the concentrations of aluminum salts used in their study are comparable to those measured in women, while many experts dispute this, indicating that the doses used are much higher than those seen in women. The penetration of aluminum salts into the skin remains a pending issue. In addition, the concentration in tissues depends on several factors: pH, the nature of the skin, the presence of possible skin lesions. It is therefore difficult to determine the dose of aluminum to which you are exposed every morning. Minister, do we have any recent studies on this subject? Do you consider it necessary for such studies to be carried out? Do you consider it useful, in the light of the precautionary principle, to raise public awareness of the possible dangerous effects of these products and to take initiatives in this regard? Could measures at European level in particular be or be envisaged to discourage the use of these aluminium salts by the cosmetic industries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u46	Madam President, the safety of aluminium salts in deodorants and anti-spirants has been studied by the European Scientific Committee for Consumer Safety and by the Belgian Higher Health Council. These studies, which were published in 2014 and 2015, conclude that additional data on the dermal penetration of aluminum salts are required. To obtain this data, a specific study was implemented in 2015. The results should soon be submitted to the European Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety so that they can complete their assessment. The services regularly exchange information at European level. The composition of the products concerned is the subject of European Regulation No 1223/2009 on cosmetic products. I will evaluate the measures to be taken in collaboration with my European counterparts and the European Commission as soon as the opinion of the Scientific Committee is available. In the meantime, it would be premature for Belgium to take action. As regards a possible link between aluminum salts and breast cancer, the Scientific Committee and the Higher Council consider that there is no relevant evidence to consider aluminum exposure in cosmetic products to be carcinogenic. For natural alum stone, it should be noted that it also contains aluminium salts. Scientific advice is given on these aluminum salts in general, which, when in contact with sweat, turn into an insoluble aluminium hydroxide polymer. The fraction of aluminum that could pass the skin barrier was still to be determined. There is no evidence to suggest that it would be less than the alumstone. The use of natural products is popular, but they are not always harmless. For example, essential oils can cause very powerful effects and often cause irritation and allergic reactions. Their safety should be assessed based on their composition and conditions of use, as is the case for all cosmetic products. In other words, it is not because it is natural that it is necessarily healthy. That is the lesson to be learned. Therefore, caution should be exercised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u47	Minister, this supplementary study is under way and the results are expected to be available shortly. I have learned with interest that the risks in terms of cancers seem almost zero. Good if it is! Too bad for natural products. I am quite in favour of essential oils, but they can sometimes be risky. I also think that a light smell of sweat does not require excessive use of deodorants. I would even tend to say that, often, those who use them are those who should not really use them. After all, I use Terre d'Hermes under my arms, and it's just as good!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u48	Mr. Flahaux, we've had all the details. It is true that a slight perspiration is also a tool of seduction, it is well known! Madam Minister, thank you for this very specific answer. Natural products are in vogue and are widely traded. It would be useful to warn the consumer of the disadvantages that these natural products can generate. With regard to the problem of aluminum salts in deodorants, attention should be paid to this problem, as the number of breast cancers listed continues to increase steadily.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u49	Madam Minister, this question is about a pilot project held in Houthalen-Helchteren at pharmacists, organized by the Royal Limburg Pharmacists' Confederation, involving 1 369 people being screened for type 2 diabetes; 405 people were found to be in a pre-diabetes stage and 19 others were already diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. The screening was done via a questionnaire and via a simple finger prick in the pharmacy. The Limburg Pharmacists' Confederation has brought together the results of this pilot project in a final report. One of the most notable elements in that report is the suggestion that the roll-out of that project across the country could save around EUR 1.7 billion in 20 years' time. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. Did you take note of that report? What elements of that report are you going to work with? What matters will you include in future policy in what way? In that project, the pharmacist had an important role to play, also within a vision of the house pharmacist. What role do you see in future for pharmacists in such projects? Will the forthcoming reform take this into account? What revision could it be about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u50	Mrs Van Hoof, in reply to your question whether we have heard about this, I can say that this project has been the subject of a number of discussions with a view to the multiannual programme on the official pharmacists. The new legal framework will guide the reforms that will be launched in the sector. It provides a general view of the future role of pharmacies and the main policy initiatives in their area. The central objective is to evolve towards optimal pharmaceutical care that is adapted to the evolving needs of the patient. In concrete terms, three important, closely related objectives are envisaged, in particular the improvement of pharmaceutical care for the patient, the strengthening of the role of the home pharmacist in primary health care and the continuation of the digitisation of the processes related to pharmaceutical care. The development and strengthening of the role of pharmacist as first-line actor will be possible, inter alia, through this type of pilot project. However, I should also like to warn against over-optimistic estimates of the possible payback effects of these slopes. I believe that more information, more extrapolation and more research will be needed in this area. These are sometimes very small-scale projects. We must be careful not to make decisions that are not sufficiently well-founded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I believe that the lines you have set up, along with the official pharmacists, in connection with first-line care are good lines. This project is promoted by the pharmacists' association. I found the figures quite impressive, as it is about a disease of our time, which many people have to deal with. I thought it was an interesting project to be able to roll out further. It is clear, on the one hand, that the pharmacist can become a sort of self-care adviser in the whole of the actors involved in the provision of care and, on the other hand, I believe that many people do not find their way to the doctor. This is a very accessible way, just because the pharmacist is a little more accessible to screen people early and refer them to the doctor. In this way, there are benefits for both the patient, the doctor, the pharmacist and the government, which can be cost-effective in early detection. I believe in this project myself. I therefore hope that such projects will be possible in your pact with the pharmacists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u52	Madam President, Minister, I have tabled two questions, but they are actually on the same subject. My first question is already outdated while the second question deals more with the details. I shall confine myself to the second question. Halfway through 2016, the Fluvia aid zone received speakers from the Ministry of Health. The employees of your ministry stated that the urgent medical assistance would have a new effect and funding by mid-2017. The fire zones have been waiting for a new regime for two years and the current regime is no longer workable for the relief zones. Because of the savings in the different zones it sometimes takes a long, very long time before an ambulance arrives. In our region, for example, an ambulance must drive from Roeselare to Kortrijk. The driving time in such a case is no less than 23 minutes. There are several concerns in the press about the operation and future of urgent medical care. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. What is the status of this file? Is there going to be a new operation and financing of urgent medical care in the short term? Will that affect the recognition of DMH? Will this have an impact on funding? If so, in what way? What impact will this have on the municipalities, the relief zones and patients? Can the Minister explain the proposal of the new working method? What driving times do you have in mind in this new operation? What are the guarantees that these driving times will actually be met? How can you guarantee or install controls for this purpose? Finally, how do you actively check the current operation of DMH? How can you intervene if the good service is compromised? So much for my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u53	Madam Minister, last August, I asked you about the cost of transportation by ambulance when someone contacted 112. I am astonished at the calculation of this cost, which is not fair to all citizens, and at its funding, which I think is too low. Indeed, the AMU (emergency medical aid) is still too little funded, which results in a high cost to the patient. In addition, the method of calculation of the transport resulting from the Royal Decree of 7 April 1995 is based on the number of kilometres travelled. The price of benefits will therefore be different depending on the distance between the person requesting assistance and the location of the available emergency service. For example, a person away from the hospital or barracks where the ambulance is parked will pay more than a person living in the vicinity of the rescue. Similarly, people in the same location who call 112 will pay a different rate depending on the origin of the ambulance. Minister, in my last speech on this subject, you said that you had asked for the advice of the National Council for Emergency Medical Aid. Have you received this notice? If so, what conclusions can you draw? Is reform of emergency medical aid envisaged in the short term, while some areas threaten to stop the AMU? If so, could human and financial resources be devoted to this reform? Could a system for sharing transport costs by ambulance, as part of urgent medical aid, be envisaged? Have you had any recent contacts with Minister Jambon on this matter? Do you consider it essential that this mission continue to be a public service mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u54	My colleague's last question is, indeed, essential. Minister, A year ago, KCE, in collaboration with the University of Ghent and UCL, carried out an evaluation of emergency medical aid in Belgium. The observation was that while 99% of people without a residence permit should have access to health care through the procedure, only 14% actually access it. The shortcomings involved are the definition of urgent medical aid, unclear for both beneficiaries and professionals, the low level of communication around the AMU, the complexity of the procedures and some arbitrary decisions. As a result, both the law governing social assistance and the law establishing the right of patients are violated. In order to change the situation, but also to make better use of public resources, the KCE proposed a nine-point reform based on two guidelines: simplifying and harmonising administrative procedures; rationalising access to health care and the information system. Minister, what has been the follow-up since then to each of the recommendations made by the KCE to address the various shortcomings identified? Has the percentage of people without a residence permit with access to health care increased? What initiatives are being taken or envisaged to avoid arbitrary decisions in the course of the proceedings? How have all the actors and institutions involved been involved in this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, in reply to my written question on the reimbursement of journeys without transport, you indicated that you, together with Minister Jambon of the Interior, are working on a dynamic programming of the means of emergency medical assistance. In your reply, you also indicated that, following the study of useless journeys carried out by Möbius in 2006, it was decided to increase the allowance in the budget envelope for journeys without transport. That has already happened. However, on the ground, some transport services or ambulance services that drive still charge the patient. This leads to discussions and also to non-refunds by health insurance institutions. Madam Minister, journeys without transport should in principle not be charged to the patient, which you confirmed in a discussion in plenary last month. You said you weren't allowed to do that before, and you're not allowed to do that now. However, we see that it does happen regularly. What's your reaction to that? What will you do to prevent some paramedics from continuing to charge such journeys? Should the rules be clarified if necessary? What agreements have been reached with the parties concerned, i.e. both the ambulance services and the insurance institutions, on charging for journeys without transport? Do these agreements still need to be refined? What is the state of play on the dynamic programming of emergency medical aid resources? Does dynamic programming mean a complete solution to that problem? Which is the right division of labour between you and Minister Jan Jambon? What is the state of play at the moment? Madam Minister, you know that I already tabled a bill in 2004 to address the problem of charging journeys without transport. We have waited for your request to be further developed, because you would incorporate it into a much wider framework. I have therefore waited for this to happen, but now I hope that the wider framework will really be there soon, otherwise we will have to solve the problem of charging the patient with useless journeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u56	On the basis of the opinions of the National Council for Emergency Medical Assistance, we have indeed worked on a strategic vision in cooperation with the administration on the whole of non-planable care. The reform of urgent medical care is part of the great exercise of the whole range of non-planable care, including the triage of patients, the post of general practitioners, the emergency services. That all fits in with a great vision. This reform starts from a service level agreement. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to develop the programming of the various resources. For this, my services, in collaboration with Ghent University, are developing a tool. In order to keep the sector viable, the financing of urgent medical aid is also being examined. I have provided for a triple payment for ambulance services under the 2016 healthcare budget in an extremely difficult budgetary context. This was a first step in making this sector financially healthier. In addition, additional funding will be needed for fair financing of urgent medical assistance, which is also transparent at the same time. I am certainly thinking of the invoice for the patient. The problem of journeys without transport will be examined in this exercise. Mrs Lanjri, I said it was a criminal offence. People have to let you know when a ride is charged without transportation. People have to let the mutualities know that costs are charged for something they don't have to pay for. If they don't let us know, we can't act. We are doing this together with the Minister of the Interior. The two Cabinets and Administrations are working on this simultaneously. Over the next few weeks, we will have the necessary consultations in the government. I must say that this is the first time that such a great exercise has taken place. Meanwhile, for years, here and there, some things have happened on the premises. I understand, of course, that mayors have to take their responsibilities into account. We are regularly contacted, even when services disappear and so on. This is the subject of constant consultation, and this is always being remediated as far as possible. However, there is a lot going on in the field, not recently but for many years. I think you can agree to that. Mr Blanchart, with regard to your question on persons without a residence permit, I think there has been a misunderstanding. Your question concerns urgent medical assistance to people without a residence permit. This is not currently within my jurisdiction. It was partly my jurisdiction before, as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. The competencies vary according to the status of the person (resident in a centre or recognized as asylum seeker, expelled or otherwise). For the people in the centers, it's Fedasil and the Secretary of State. For the others, it's CPAS, so Mr. Borsus. It is true that this important issue is still relevant. Unfortunately, I must suggest that you reorient your question. It's not your fault. There was a misunderstanding. But it's no longer mine to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u57	Madam Minister, I have not actually received any answers to my specific question. You're referring to a larger whole. I hope, of course, that this part will not be snowed down or postponed by the fact that we are working longer on the bigger picture. I say this because, in some cases, the situation on the ground is rather precarious. I hear this regularly in the press, including from people who make up the service in those different zones. I would therefore urge once again that we proceed as quickly as possible with a good, sustainable solution. In the meantime, you have already solved the situation a little bit by tripling the emergency medical aid allowance, for which I am grateful. However, that is just a tip of the iceberg. You know that the cost of an ambulance for emergency medical care is much higher. Much more is needed to make that picture financially healthy. In your reply to a question by Mrs Lanjri about the useless journeys, you said earlier that charging them is even a criminal offence. I suppose this also applies to other additional costs charged for urgent medical care by certain zones. Let me give you an example. The charging of a height worker to evacuate a patient horizontally is still charged in certain zones until today. I believe that all this should be treated in the same way, that this is not legal either, and that the zones should not charge it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u58	Madam Minister, I have heard that you see that additional financial resources should be needed. So I hope your voice will be heard in places other than here. Like my colleague, I did not necessarily have an answer to all my questions. My big problem is that, when the objective of a rescue zone is to standardize the various relief services, having a cost disparity seems to me to be an ineptitude. And it's hard to make a whole series of people, patients understand. Therefore, if we really want to sell this unit and the effectiveness of this area, we must also help. I always have a somewhat stupid example, but the examples are sometimes much more concrete. Two people who would live on the same street who would be transported by ambulance would not pay the same price depending on where the ambulance came from. If I take the case of Tournai, it may be that, for one, no ambulance is available in Tournai, in which case an ambulance would eventually come from Mouscron. As the price is calculated per kilometre, it will pay much more than its neighbour, who may have been directly taken over by an ambulance from Tournai. It would be appropriate, I believe, if we want to standardise the areas, whether we can at some point standardize the costs, even if we do a calculation. It is not because you live near a hospital that you have to pay less and it is not because you live in a village that you have to pay more. In my view, there is a real way to find, at the level of the relief zones, a form of price sharing, but we must allow ourselves to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u59	Madam Minister, ambulance exits represent more than 80% of the fire department's response, and there is indeed a need to harmonize this problem. For the rest, thank you for your answers and I will address my question to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u60	Madam Minister, I know that this is a major task, but the issue concerns many people, not least the patients themselves, who often have to pay for it, which, as you said, is not really allowed to do. Above all, I remember that it is not allowed and that it is a criminal offence. We must advise the insurance institutions to actually contact your services so that the appropriate sanctions can be followed. This can already be done in the short term, pending clear regulation. I stand by it: if it is necessary, my bill is there, but if you can deal with it in globo, that is good for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u61	Minister, would you like to make some clarifications?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u62	With regard to the unduly charged benefits, I can only repeat that for all unduly charged benefits they can be reported to us through the sickness fund. People have to take their accounts to the health insurance fund, so that they can report it. We have agreements on this. Then it will be passed on to us. We can only investigate what is happening on the ground if there really is a declaration with name and name. I take that very seriously. With regard to the price of the journeys and the like, I think, firstly, that the dispatching takes place in such a way that it depends on the driving times and the assessment of the severity of the situation. When it comes to urgent medical care, the medical aspect is first and foremost important. The price is of course also important. It is one of the many elements that are being taken on board. I agree that one citizen should not have to pay more than the other, but we all know the reality on the ground. In rural areas, it's not that obvious...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u63	I don't think we understand each other. I will give you a very specific example. Mr. X lives on such a street in Tournai. Mr. Y lives on the same street. On the same day, Mr. X needed an ambulance because of his medical problem. The closest one is Tournai. The ambulance's coming. However, following various events at the same time, all of Tournai's ambulances left. Mr. X's neighbor calls the ambulance a few hours later. The ambulance will then come from Antoing. Tournai and Antoing are part of the same area. Areas should be allowed to have regulations, without financial intervention by the government, allowing, instead of an annual calculation of the cost of the kilometres travelled, to determine a package of kilometres to be charged to the area. It is enough only to allow us to benefit from this regulation because a person who lives 50 metres from the hospital could pay much more because the ambulance comes from Antoing, which is inexplicable to the people who live it. I therefore advocate a system of mutualisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u64	You therefore ask that the system be abandoned per kilometre for a lump sum per zone, provided you live in the area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u65	The area could calculate the amount of this package.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u66	I had not correctly understood the meaning of your request. I would have liked to have given more details, but this is a very big reform. It has already been said here: the funds I have allocated for this represent an important amount, but there will be much more resources needed. At the political level, this must be made a priority. It is a shared competence of Home Affairs and Health. For me, it is very important, and for my colleague too. We must be able to make the resources available for this. For a vision, a plan or a reform, especially for a sector that has been on the brink of water for years, resources must be made available. That choice will have to be made in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u67	Madam President, Minister, my question has been put a few weeks ago. According to the data provided by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, Depo-Provera, in popular terms, would not have been available for several weeks during October. Doctors who wanted to prescribe this medicine were advised to order the product abroad, but in that case no refund was provided for. The needle pill contains the female hormone progesterone that gives birth control over a delayed release system of three months after a simple intramuscular injection. The needle pill is mainly used in women who fail to take the contraceptive pill daily. In practice, these are often women with mental disabilities, women with contraception that is more than desirable. What measures will you take to address this problem? Do you have more information on why producer Pfizer suddenly interrupts the delivery of Depo-Provera?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u68	Madam President, Mr Hedebouw, there was indeed a temporary unavailability of the medicine Depo-Provera, caused by a production problem, which caused delays in the availability of the semi-finished product. The product could not be packaged. Therefore, production could not continue. There was a therapeutic alternative on our market, in particular Sayana, 104 mg per 0.65 ml suspension, also for subcutaneous injection, with the same active substances and thus also for the same indication, especially contraception. In the meantime, we have received confirmation from the company that on 12 October, six days after submitting your question, a lot of the medicine Depo-Provera could be released by the manufacturer for the Belgian market. Since that date, the product has been available back on the Belgian market. This product is not only used in our country. Apparently, the entire production line had stopped. We didn't have enough reserve for that period. So what we are doing is asking if there are any more tickets available for other countries that could possibly come to our country. That's what happened. The product has been available again since that date. Important to know is that there was also an alternative on the market. Hopefully the temporary unavailability of this prick pill will not result in a baby tree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Six days after the submission of my question, you will notice the efficiency of a PVDA question, because Pfizer is already studying it directly. I can also open my question. Last week there was also a case with the medicine Ledertrexate. What evidence do these companies provide to show that production problems are involved? The law on medicinal products of 1964 obliges companies to ensure continuous supply, which is also logical in order to prevent them from playing with prices. Last week, there was another problem with Pfizer, while research showed that there are production plants in Germany, Portugal, Australia and India, which in fact highlights the technical problem differently. Such large companies have a major impact on our market. That is why I think it is important to maintain control, which is to check whether it really is a technical problem and not a certain strategy for a certain price increase, because our market is very sensitive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u70	Question No 14220 by Mrs Capoen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u71	Madam Minister, you and the medical devices industry have put in place a pact of the future aimed, among other things, at improving patient safety. Among the 32 points of action contained in this pact is the establishment of a system of self-control. This would be justified by the fact that, with the ever more rapid emergence of innovations in the field of mobile applications in particular, inspection services can no longer follow. By this measure, the actors themselves would be responsible for the accuracy, updating and annual validation of data on their medical devices. Another announced objective of this pact is to improve access to medical devices for the patient. In this regard, you have announced that you are working on transparent and faster reimbursement procedures, particularly for in vitro testing. To this end, a working group has been set up within INAMI to formulate proposals and explore possible ways of saving money. Finally, a third point contained in this pact concerns the establishment of a cadastre for medical devices. In concrete terms, a mapping of all the players in the Belgian market would be carried out and a Belgian database, the Central Traceability Register (CTR), would be set up. This data bank should list all the devices present in Belgium and the information related to them, in particular the expected repayments. With regard to the self-checking system, it appears that it will be based on a reference guide which is being finalized. Can you tell us when it will be developed? Can you also provide us with details of the modalities of this self-control system and its quality guarantees? Since self-checking systems have sometimes shown their limits, will external control be provided? With regard to the working group to formulate proposals for better accessibility to medical devices, can you tell us when its conclusions are expected? Finally, can you tell us when the medical device cadastre will be completed? And who will be responsible for carrying it out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u72	Mr Senesael, although placing on the market is organised at European level, it is the responsibility of the Member States to ensure compliance with the rules for the actors established on their territory. Given the diversity and large number of products and actors, it is not possible to apply the same inspection methodology as applied to the pharmaceutical industry. As a result, the AFMPS has begun to set up a self-control system. The principle is simple: check the basic information of all stakeholders on a regular basis and target inspections where a risk is identified. This is a dual system. There is first of all self-control. There is also the possibility of control by the AFMPS, as is currently the case, but on the basis of the data contained in the self-control system. This is a simpler and easier way to do things. All stakeholders will be required to provide information to AFMPS on a regular basis. This information will then be analysed, cross-checked, which will allow, on the basis of a risk analysis, to better target inspections. This approach is therefore complementary to the inspection activities currently carried out in the field. The development of specific guidelines for different types of actors and products is also planned. AFMPS is currently finalizing the preparatory phase. It will be able to start a pilot phase of this new control approach in mid-2017. With regard to the permanent working group on budget and medical devices, it is expected that INAMI will, in the coming weeks, define the organisation of work so that the working group can still start its analysis in 2017. As a first step, it is planned to gradually analyse the INAMI budget in order to identify the portion relating to medical devices. At the moment, it is not possible for me to specify the budget that will be devoted to medical devices. Finally, the cadastre of medical devices must be implemented in good intelligence with the authentic European source. The implementation plan will be drawn up as soon as the date of publication of the European regulations is known. At the level of Belgium, we are proactively moving forward on this traceability register of implants implanted. The latter had to be adapted to the IT environment of health care, i.e. Action 18 of the Health Care Action Plan on the consolidation of registers. The AFMPS foresees seven finalisations and seven adaptations in the coming months. We're not waiting for Europe. We are working proactively and as soon as European regulations are published, which are about to arrive, we will be ready to implement them immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u73	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for the quality of her response. On the one hand, the organisation of work is well planned in the light of the questions asked, at least with regard to the methodology used involving self-controls and inspections are completely compatible; on the other hand, a timetable provides, during 2017, for all the finalisations at the preparatory stages of the AFMPS or INAMI and the different roles of each. In conclusion, Madam Minister, I would like to stress with great happiness the proactivity we are demonstrating, as it also shows the quality of the work we can do. I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u74	Madam Minister, according to a report by the European Parliament voted very recently, 15 000 different substances would be present in packaging, containers and kitchen utensils, most of which would not be known. This obviously seems problematic since the contact between food and these substances contained in paper, cardboard, varnish, metals, alloys, printing inks and adhesives that make up these packagings, containers and kitchen utensils could constitute a real danger to human health. Indeed, this transfer of chemicals contained in these materials to food would, according to this report, increase consumer exposure to endocrine disruptors. This has already been discussed several times in this committee. However, Minister, it is established that such exposure can lead to various conditions such as infertility, cancer, obesity, thyroid dysfunction, brain function and metabolism. You will agree with me that this situation therefore poses a real problem with regard to food safety and consumer protection. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you have been able to read the report of the European Parliament to which I refer. What is your view on this? Do you share the conclusions? What are the rules in force regarding the presence of chemicals in food packaging and utensils in our country? Following the European Parliament's comments on this matter, do you intend to take further action? If so, what kind? Finally, would you be inclined to initiate in-depth evaluation and research on materials in contact with food and their impact on health or do you think it is up to the European Parliament to decide on such actions? In advance, Madam Minister, I thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u75	Mr Senesael, you will be happy because on this issue we have also played a proactive role. I am managing this issue in close cooperation with my colleague the Minister of Agriculture and we share the conclusions of the European Parliament's report. We very much hope that the European Commission will continue the work of harmonising legislation in the vast field of food contact materials. Materials intended for food contact are generally regulated by European Regulation No 1935/2004, concerning materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs, which specifies that not all materials intended for food contact should pose a hazard to the consumer. Certain materials are subject to specific European rules, such as Commission Regulation No 10/2011 of 14 January 2011 on plastic materials or articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. For many other materials, however, there are no strict standards set by the European Union. Since the Commission has not started any further work in this area, Belgium has decided to participate very actively in the work of the Council of Europe, which deals with materials for which there is not yet any legislation in the European Union. The resolutions drafted by the Council of Europe are, of course, harmonisation in the sector, but they are voluntary texts. It is therefore still necessary to make them mandatory to transpose them into national law. The Royal Decree of 25 September 2016 on varnish for food contact, attests to this approach. This is a transposition into Belgian law of a Council of Europe resolution. Other EU Member States have chosen the same path. Finally, Belgium is the only European country to have developed and set up a database which lists the substances used in the manufacture of food contact materials. You're right, so far it has more than 10,000 substances, which is huge. The substances listed have been evaluated by predictive software for their potential toxicity in order to manage the risk associated with the use of these substances as best as possible. Our experts are currently thinking about how best to integrate this data into legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you. I will make three comments. Firstly, I obviously welcome Belgium's proactive work and the incentive to continue the work of harmonisation at European level. We can only rejoice in that. However, I regret that at this stage we do not have a deadline for the task to be accomplished. Secondly, I thank you, Madam Minister, for the effort made by Belgium, which is, in any case, at the forefront in this area. Indeed, it complies with the work of the Council of Europe. You give examples of this, particularly with regard to varnish that may come into contact with food. There is provision for the transposition into national law of a relevant text. Thirdly, you are talking about 10,000 substances that have been listed. We can only congratulate ourselves on the work that has been done. Of course, the most important phase is still missing. The question is how to incorporate this data into existing legislation because, if some of these substances were to be harmful, they should be known, prohibited or, in any case, guided differently and, above all, what can be done by means of this cadastre. In short, I congratulate you on the work done, but there is still a lack of a complementary phase. In any case, you state that European harmonisation is relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u77	Madam Minister, this is a written question that I had converted into an oral one. So it's possible that she's a little dated here and there. Madam President, I will look at them briefly, because I know that you are happy to stay within the speaking time provided. Madam Minister, this question is based on the 2015 annual report, although that of 2016 is coming and you may already have some new figures. The 2015 Annual Report stated that the evolution of the fees had to be closely monitored because, in the event of a sharp increase, the associated costs threatened to explode. Do you already have an overview of the evolution of the number of files closed, the number of fees paid and the associated costs in 2016? If this is going to explode further, what is the answer that will be given? Since the start of the fund, 449 opinions have been issued. That was, of course, the case in 2015. In 2015, the opinion was 347. So there may be an improvement. You also indicated in a previous reply that it had to reach cruising speed in 2015. However, it is striking that more than the double number of opinions was given on the Dutch-speaking side than on the French-speaking side, i.e. 235 versus 112, while there is an even distribution in the staff framework. Could you perhaps tell me how this imbalance can be explained in the opinions that have been given? Some of the advice points to the doctor's liability. Are there also records of doctors who did not have professional liability insurance, which really required recourse to the fund without recovery? If so, how many cases were involved? That should, of course, be possible, because it is not yet a very large number of files, but still. As far as the staff framework is concerned, there was an increase of 3.5 people in 2015. This means, however, that at that time we were still looking for twelve additional staff. In addition, the senior medical coordinator also resigned in 2015. What is the status of the staff framework? After all, that seems to remain a challenge. I also read in the report that the DAMO project to provide for the development and implementation of the IT application for the management and handling of the files would undergo a new testing phase in 2016. What's the status here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u78	Minister, four years after its actual launch, it appears that the operating balance of the Medical Accidents Fund (PAF) is fairly low. Thanks to his success, he faced several problems. Let's first look at the processing time of the files! While the law establishing the mechanism obliges the Fund to deliver an opinion within six months, it appears that it has accumulated nearly three years of backlog in the processing of cases. Thus, out of the thousands of cases that have been introduced, only 115 victims have been successful. However, many of them have still not received the promised compensation. On the other hand, it appears that the staff are understaffed. While it was originally planned that the Fund would have 40 employees, it had only 30 employees and could not, therefore, fulfil its obligations in an optimal manner. Do you confirm the information that the processing time is six times higher than the statutory prescription? If so, how do you explain this situation? What solutions are being considered to address them? What about the successful victims who have yet to receive compensation? The fact that the personnel framework is only three quarters of what was originally planned does not, of course, help the situation. How do you justify such a shortage of staff? Are additional commitments on the agenda? Has a specific budget been allocated within this framework? In an effort to find solutions to this problematic situation, the Director of the FAM wished to meet with you. What could be decided at the end of this meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u79	Madam President, first of all, let me outline the entire history. As Mrs Van Peel and Mr Senesael rightly pointed out, the start of the Medical Accidents Fund was at least difficult to mention. The law provides that the fund shall give an opinion within six months of receipt of an application. In practice, this period is very difficult to achieve. A dossier that is being examined goes through a whole process after it has been found admissible. One of the main areas of delay is the report by the external experts which is needed. Those people are only available in limited quantities, and delivering the report takes a lot of time. In addition, the difficulties in strengthening the staff environment, the high turnover rate of staff and the difficulties associated with the recruitment of certain profiles do not contribute to the timeliness of the processing of cases. The Fund's mission is to prepare an annual report. This report is to be approved by the Fund's Management Committee and the approval of the 2015 Annual Report was placed on the agenda of the Management Committee meeting held on October 28, 2016. In the meantime, the report has been published on the Fund's website. The FAM paid a total of €5,400,000 in compensation in 45 cases. At the beginning of 2017, there were 150 cases with civil liability of care providers, 67 of which were cases where the severity criterion was met. In the context of these cases, healthcare providers are asked, after issuing the opinion, to make a proposal for compensation. It is only if the care provider challenges the civil liability or refuses the compensation that the FAM can take steps to calculate and pay compensation. This also explains some delays. There were 24 files with a "medical accident without civil liability" opinion for which the gravity criterion was met. In these cases, supporting documents are immediately collected in order to be able to formulate a proposal as soon as possible. This proposal is then submitted to the recipient(s) for discussion. Once a consensus has been reached, the FAM will proceed with the payment of the agreed amount. This can be in the form of interest or capital. You understand that the calculation of compensation is a long and tedious exercise, also knowing that the aim is that it is the FAM which pays the compensation as provided for in the ordinary law. When it turns out that the waiting time for compensation will be too long, the FAM pays, in some cases, a down payment to the victims concerned. At the beginning of January 880 opinions were issued, namely 595 Dutch and 285 French. Mrs. Van Peel asks why there is a difference. The difference would largely be explained by the fact that on the French-speaking side it is even more difficult to find experts who are willing to carry out expertises. These expertises, when they happen, appear to require even more time. The French-speaking medical framework also appears to be much less stable, so two relations for French-speaking doctors were not completed throughout 2016. The recruitments are still ongoing. Some of the advice given also points to the doctor's liability. There is only one file in which a doctor was only partially insured. For the development of the electronic application, DAMO was partly taken into production on 12 September 2016 with 363 files by key users. Meanwhile, work is being done to solve the childhood diseases, including fine-tuning the processes, giving training and coaching to all users. The full production of DAMO is planned for the end of March. The staff framework of the Fund is further completed. In 2016, several new employees joined, but some left the fund after a few months. The 40-year framework includes 34.5 relations. The recruitment of three new file managers has taken place. The appointment arrangements are also completed and the selection interviews for two French-speaking doctors are ongoing. In mid-2016, the Strategic Cell had a constructive interview with the Director of the FAM, the deputy head of INAMI, Mr. De Cock and the Chairs and Vice-Chairs of the MFF Management Committee. We are currently analysing, in dialogue with all stakeholders, the various avenues to apply a simplified and faster working method. It will be necessary otherwise, we will never be able to catch up with this delay. This is due to the long-standing non-implementation of the Fund. It was voted and then nothing happened. There is a problem of recruiting doctors and staff. You know, too, catching up with such delays, always working and facing delays and figures that seem like nothing, that is not very motivating for people to get satisfaction out of their jobs either. As far as the implementation of the framework is concerned, I think we will get there if the people who are there want to stay. They now also know that they are working hard on it, which may prevent them from running back. As far as the experts are concerned, we have difficulties, particularly on the French-speaking side, in finding them. A whole analysis is now under way in order to allow for a shorter procedure in a number of cases to arrive at a settlement. There is also an analysis of the type of complaints mostly involved. In fact, this fund has already run a very unfortunate course. However, it remains important for the patients. It has been discussed in this committee for years, and when it came to it, it was not ready for implementation. That is what we are trying to do now. We are working very intensively on this, with all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u80	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Probably gonna be continued. As you say, it is in itself a very good initiative, and not an unimportant one, to prevent us from getting into other situations that we see abroad. So it is a shame that it continues to muddle in some areas, although that is understandable. I understand that you need to find experts for all these sub-specialities, who have to give their opinion on colleagues, which is not so obvious. I understand the difficulty. We will have to evaluate this for a while, and then we will have to look thoroughly at whether there is no need for more than just evaluation. Keeping muddy seems a little hard to me. There is, however, an acceleration, which is also seen in the annual report. Hopefully this will be continued before 2016. As far as professional liability insurance is concerned, you know that I have tabled a legislative proposal for this, which is currently under way. I also know that this is not an obvious story. They also asked about the real risk and how often it occurs. Honestly, it's just one now, but on that small number, I find it striking that someone is in between. So I continue to feel that we should continue to work on this. Like I said, we're definitely still talking about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers. You update the numbers that have been given. This shows an increased willingness to move forward on this issue. I stress, thank and share your willingness to make up for the backlog. On the other hand, I think that we really need enthusiasm for this Medical Accident Fund, so that there is a guideline, a clear methodology. As my colleague has just pointed out, we must avoid getting bogged down but, on the contrary, we must have this desire to shorten the deadlines. This would give relevance to the existence, work and development of this Medical Accident Fund. I hope, in any case, that the directions taken will be the right ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u82	Madam President, Madam Minister, the maximum invoicing system was set up to provide protection against rising medical costs. That is a good thing in itself. It is therefore a good thing that this government will rather focus on facilitating access to the maximum invoice. However, we must be careful not to be too flexible. Therefore, the government agreement provided that the necessary measures would be taken to ensure that personal shares already repaid by a third party insurer would not be included again in the maximum invoice counters. As a matter of fact, I received a report from someone who said that the system of the maximum invoicing would double the refund, on the one hand by the sickness fund and, on the other hand, by his hospitalization insurance. He can't get that fixed either. I don't know to what extent that's common. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What is the state of play with regard to measures to eliminate the inclusion of personal shares already reimbursed by a third party insurer in the maximum invoice counters? As far as the double refunds are concerned, are you aware of that? Do you have any idea how often this occurs and how this can be avoided?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u83	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, in order to avoid personal shares already reimbursed by a third party insurer being included in the maximum invoice counters, there is indeed a need to organise an exchange of information between insurers and sickness funds. It is unclear whether such a measure is practicable. After all, there are a number of questions: Does the private insurer know the insurance company's health insurance fund? Isn't there a violation of the insurance company's privacy? Moreover, does this generate a financial return on health insurance that compensates for the cost of a permanent data exchange? That is why it has not yet been worked out and all the buttons have not yet been cut. A system was set up in 2007 to avoid reimbursement of the same costs both in the context of a maximum invoice and in the context of hospitalisation insurance. I myself asked the necessary questions about this at the time. This system provides that the sickness fund informs the hospital where the patient is hospitalized that the patient receives the maximum invoice. If the hospital has been informed of that fact, it should indicate this information on the patient bill. If the limit of the maximum invoice is reached, the insurance is raised to 100% of the fees and there is no more personal share. The hospital invoices the full amount of the insurance to the sickness fund. Since the patient proves the costs incurred in respect of the hospitalisation insurer on the basis of the invoice, the insurer is aware that the rightholder is entitled to the maximum invoice and therefore no second refund of those fees is made. That measure has been taken. Probably another one slips between the meshes of the net, where the information has not yet been passed on and is not yet placed on the invoice or wrongly. We need to see if there is still a great deal of time in between. On the other hand, more exchange of information between the administrations and the sickness funds is provided for in the pact that we have concluded with the insurance institutions. This is of course something else, this is about the private insurers. We must be careful there about the privacy and confidentiality of certain medical data of patients. I really want to clear it up, because we shouldn't have adventures with that, that would be a bit of playing with fire. It'll be cleared up further. Indeed, it is not that simple, because third parties are involved, who should not have access to all data so directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u84	Madam President, Minister, I understand the problem as outlined by you. It's not obvious, is it? It is, of course, regrettable that we do not actually have a real view of the amount we are talking about. You said earlier, and rightly so, that it is necessary to ensure that what needs to be done in order to get things right does not cost more than what is currently being spent too much. However, at the moment we do not even see it, if I understand it all correctly. As long as we are unable to cross that data, we do not know how many wrongs we have here is a wrong word, because of course it is not the case that someone is deliberately dealing with this budget. That is a pity, but I understand that it is indeed very complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u85	Mrs Gerkens went to another committee to ask a question. With the permission of Mr Senesael and Mr Hedebouw, I would therefore like to deal first with the questions under item 19, and then return to item 18.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u86	Madam Secretary, do you think that we should inform Mrs Gerkens, because you may have to leave as well? After my question, I'll give her a call. Madam Minister, my question concerns the networking of hospitals, which is a very important measure that is in the docks. The hospitals reorganise themselves in networks according to the recommendation of the KCE in three possible steps: the coordinated network, the integrated care system and the autonomous cooperation initiative. I will not repeat its definitions. We all know them. The KCE also recommends that the hospital sector should have sufficient flexibility to opt for the most appropriate form of cooperation and thus also choose the best possible governance structure that best fits the profile of the hospital. It may be a misunderstanding and in that case I would like to hear it, but we hear from the field of work that a number of hospitals think they have understood that they can belong to only one network and not to several networks. However, in presenting your plan of action, I thought I understood that differently. I believe I have heard that hospitals could also be members of multiple networks, which seems logical to me. Very specialised university hospitals will probably be applied by several smaller hospitals and will therefore be requested in several networks. So my questions are clear. Can hospitals belong to multiple networks? Is there a difference between basic hospitals and university hospitals if they may belong to several networks? Do you support the recommendations of the KCE? Where do you stand with the anchoring of the three new models of cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u87	Mrs Dedry, in the Committee on Health we have already discussed in detail the reform of hospitals, the operation of hospital networks and the reform of funding. The debate will continue. We shall be discussing the first amendments to the legislation in committee in the course of the coming months. This includes the structure and governance model for networks between hospitals. There is a consensus within the government that this yard needs to progress faster. We also address this question, partly in view of the demand of the sector, which wants to prepare itself specifically for the new approach of healthcare organisations and their related funding. The KCE study focuses on one aspect of the clinical hospital networks, namely governance. In parallel, other aspects are being developed conceptually, such as the architecture of the networks themselves, which is the subject of most of your questions. The KCE's flexibility is based on administrative and management structures and does not necessarily reflect the architecture of the network. We will also give hospitals the opportunity to form geographically logical and compact networks themselves. As a result, each hospital must be able to belong to a network. We believe that there should be no hospitals alone, isolated, between the networks. The geographical areas must be connected. There can't be another small clinic between two networks. In the view on networking, which is currently being developed, each hospital will indeed belong to a single locoregional network, whether it is a general hospital or a university hospital. When it comes to supra-regional tasks, each local network will transfer a specific form of hospital to a single hospital per supra-regional care mission and university functions there. In theory, this can be a different hospital for every supraregional assignment. I'm thinking, for example, rare brain tumors. Several locoregional networks may then be able to forward to one centre. For some diseases there will be only one center throughout the country. For other conditions, however, there will be several centres. Then the choice will be made in the field where the best care and expertise is available for that supraregional assignment. A minimum framework is laid down. This will certainly give the hospitals working together the freedom to work further in the field of integration and cooperation. It is therefore not the case that the legal framework will regulate everything immediately. There will still be a lot of work to be done on the ground by the hospitals themselves. We have also always said that this bottom-up should be organised. It's also a matter of trust. Nearby doesn't always mean the best care. However, a distinction must be made between the locoregional networks where all types of care can be provided for the population that are needed. The supraregional tasks will require fewer areas for very rare treatments and diseases. There will be one point that connects all hospitals. On the ground, however, agreements will have to be made on this matter again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u88	This is indeed a clarification. There's a bottom-up operation, as you say. It is especially important that each hospital belongs to one network. Due to the supra-regional missions, these large, hyper-specialized hospitals will have several members in their network.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u89	Madam Minister, at the request of the consumer association Test-Achats and the Flemish League against Cancer, the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE) has initiated a study on the reimbursement system for certain medicines. This study is concerned with the data of several dozen contracts signed between INAMI and pharmaceutical companies, which contain public data but also confidential annexes containing the negotiated conditions for the reimbursement of certain medicinal products following a first refusal of reimbursement by the INAMI commission. However, according to information published in the press, Pharma.be, the umbrella organisation of the pharmaceutical industry in Belgium, has called for the destruction of the confidential data contained in these contracts, thus complicating the task of KCE researchers as they can no longer process all the data and therefore evaluate the system set up in 2010. As a result, the KCE, which had been looking at this study for more than six months, wondered if it was going to pursue it. Minister, after five years of implementation, the need for an evaluation of the system of reimbursement of drugs targeted by the study (Convention 81) appears to be well founded. What is your view of Pharma.be's request? Do you warrant such interference with public health research policies? Are KCE researchers obliged to comply? Is there not an alternative? If the KCE were to abandon the study, would you consider initiating a new study to assess the effectiveness of the existing system? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u90	Madam Secretary, according to various media, the interest organisation Pharma.be has sabotaged an investigation into secret contracts between the pharmaceutical sector and the government. The KCE, the government institution, first got access to the agreements without problems, but now has to destroy some of that information. I quote: "This is a very unhealthy system." So unhealthy that it is apparently not allowed to see the light of day," says Martine Van Hecke, expert in health at Test-Achats, who doesn't make a fool of himself. She is particularly angry at the intervention of the pharmaceutical sector in an independent investigation and because of the help that Pharma.be received from Minister De Block, she says. It was Test-Achats itself, which, together with Kom op tegen Kanker, suggested that the Knowledge Centre investigate the advantages and disadvantages of the so-called Article 81 procedure, which deals with the temporary reimbursement of medicinal products that were initially rejected. The health insurance provided access to the secret agreements without delay, but no document was allowed to be copied. Names of medicines and manufacturers were not given to the researchers. Since 2010, in that Article 81 procedure, the Belgian authorities have agreed with pharmaceutical manufacturers on a temporary reimbursement under conditions. These are medicines whose reimbursement was initially rejected, for example because the operation has not yet been sufficiently demonstrated. That's why the government demands big discounts and extra research. We know that these discounts will save EUR 240 million next year, but the details of the agreements are contained in secret annexes. The KCE says it's unpleasant to be surprised. I quote Raf Mertens, the Director: Apparently, commercial interests prevail on the disclosure of governance." Madam Secretary, what is your position on the secret contracts between the pharmaceutical sector and the government? How do you respond to the suspicion of Test-Achats that the pharmaceutical sector in particular has a lot of money left over from the agreements? What elements can you propose to prove otherwise? What role have you played in the relevant files? Do you not see it as your role to promote the openness and transparency of the policies pursued? Finally, how can there be an open debate on the advantages and disadvantages of such agreements if even the CCE does not have access to the documents in the context of its independent investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u91	Minister, I would like to ask you about the destruction of health data ordered by pharma.be. You must have known about it since the press reported it. Has the KCE made contact with you on this matter? Are other studies affected by the same destruction of data requested by pharma.be? Are there other researchers facing this same situation? It seems important to me that you play cash on the subject. The basis of this problem is the law of 22 June 2016, because this law of the government may slow down or even stop studies started several months ago, which have sometimes required significant resources in the budget, but not only, also in human resources, on the part of researchers. We can hear the will of pharmaceutical companies to keep certain confidential data. At the same time, attention should be paid to the entire research component. These are research organised, not by other pharmaceutical companies, but by official bodies, including within this framework, at KCE level. In addition to providing an update on this file, what about the other files involved? How do you intend to intervene in this case? Are you in a passive attitude or do you intend to act and not accept this data destruction requirement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u92	Minister, I will add some elements to my question. I was very concerned about this renunciation of the KCE and its researchers. They explained that from the moment that they can no longer publish data, they must anonymize, neutralize this information which gives content to their studies, it is no longer worth making public their work. The link with the law adopted last June, which reinforces confidentiality, seems to me to be one of the elements that also can be reinforced the requirements of pharma.be. You are represented on the KCE Board of Directors. I would like to have confirmation of your veto power in this council. Do you support this requirement of pharma.be, in this case, to prohibit publication of results? And if this is not the case, have you opposed it and will you encourage the publication of this study by the KCE? In general, this raises the question of studies on drug mechanisms. Whenever studies are carried out by stakeholders other than the pharmaceutical sectors, we see concerns in the publication of the results. I wish I'd heard you about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The purpose of the agreements (Article 81) is to provide for a provisional refund for medicinal products for which there is not yet sufficient scientific evidence for a definitive refund. Thus, the patient already has access to these innovative medicines for which scientific evidence is gathered in order to be able to respond to clinical and sometimes budgetary uncertainties. The firm is committed in this way to sharing the risks. This system ensures the accessibility and affordability of expensive and innovative medicines. These are most often cancer drugs. At the same time, the authorities recover part of the expenditure from the sector and the patient has access to the latest innovative therapies. These negotiations are confidential at the level of price agreements, to enable the firm to enter into more stringent commitments; these confidential data are collected in the Annex to the Convention. It is important to respect this confidentiality if the patient is to have access to innovation at the best possible price, for him or her and for the authorities. The alternative would be to have no refunds and no access to innovative medicines for the patient or a refund at the official and facial price which is much higher. The possibility of concluding an agreement, in accordance with section 81, is part of the formal procedure for reimbursement of drugs and was then settled by Ms.Onkekinx when she was Minister of Public Health. The Commission for the Refund of Medicinal Products proposes that companies, for the most part innovative medicinal products, use this type of convention for provisional reimbursement. This method is not unique to Belgium, nor was Belgium the first country in which it was introduced. In the majority of European countries, such agreements are concluded with a view to ensuring the manageability of health care systems, where the price actually paid is lower than the list price, the facial price of a medicinal product. The legal basis guaranteeing the confidentiality of the annexes to the Article 81 agreements confirms a practice which has been in practice for many years. Previously, the RIZIV and the companies had a kind of gentlemen's agreement on confidentiality of agreements, stating that the confidential information is included in the Annex to the Agreement. The law as such has not changed that; only the gentlemen's agreement has now become a law. This is more transparent and brings the regime into line with the Act of 11 April 1994. By the way, the study is not stopped. Only the annexes to the agreements are confidential, but the contracts contain much more information than that contribution and an international literature study is also planned. The KCE may respond to all research questions on the basis of the information contained in the public part of the agreements. As far as the study entrusted to the KCE is concerned, there is therefore no problem. The confidentiality of the attachments is necessary. Without this confidentiality, we do not have access to innovative medicines for our patients. We would be hugely failing if we were to deny patients with cancers or other very deadly diseases access to existing curative medicines, because we, as the only country, would not be able to conclude confidential contracts. You can all stand on your head now, but the end justifies the means. As far as I am concerned, patients should be provided with the appropriate medication for serious conditions as soon as possible. If the rest of Europe does so, so do we.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u94	Minister, thank you for the elements of your answer. We will all agree that the patient's interest is a priority and that it is to him that all eyes should turn. If I take note of your answer, I understand that Carrefour Bank is involved in making certain data available. Second, that confidential annexes are a practice that has existed for quite a long time and that these annexes may remain confidential but may also be part of the study. And you do not say, at this level, that the study of the KCE will be stopped but that it can continue and be finalized. We therefore look forward to the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u95	Minister, I am not reassured. You tell us that we do not have much choice, that we must trust them and that you are not going to ask for transparency since everyone is doing this in Europe. Rather, the logic should be reversed. An independent public structure must have access to this data in order to be able to judge the dangers, advantages and disadvantages of such studies, of seeking consequences for patients. I am rather concerned that today, you who should represent this public interest in transparency say that what interests you above all is that the drug comes to the market. I am not reassured and I hope that public institutions will be strengthened and not derailed in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u96	Minister, your answer makes me feel a little uncomfortable. There is a difference between the confidentiality of data concerning particular drugs and confidentiality in the context of the famous article 81, which is important. It is another thing to say that you refuse to have access to aggregated data, which prevents you from linking such data to such a drug and to such a contract. Having cross-sectional data is not uninteresting, because the reality today is that as long as each country negotiates its individual transactions with pharmaceutical companies, there is a loss for patients as well. The European Union is in the process of racing for the scallop. So there is this lever that is used - and we understand them - by pharmaceutical companies. Like you, I think there is confidentiality about contracts as such that can and must be respected. On the other hand, to say that confidentiality of aggregated data must be maintained in order to be able to study the consequences and the way in which, at macro level, information can also clearly bring added value for the patient but also, tomorrow, for the State, it is something else. So I'm uncomfortable with your answer. I think that's something that needs to be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u97	Minister, I had the same uneasiness when I realized that the KCE researchers considered that their study no longer had any value from the time that we did not allow the publication of treated anonymized data. It is still a scientific institution that knows what to do. Quite simply, because of this confidentiality clause, I was struck because that means that KCE will no longer be able to conduct studies on drugs. In addition, the study dealt with the conventions article 81. The aim was to determine whether the mechanism, and hence the link with the price and repayment arrangements, met the objectives set out in these agreements. It was to see if it was effective or not. The purpose of this study is necessarily the content of the annexes. I think that the door has been opened to interference by the pharmaceutical actor in the ability to study mechanisms for reimbursement and treatment of medicines. I think this will have wider consequences than just this study. I also agree with the honourable Members. If, in each country, we say that we must accept the conditions and prices that pharmaceutical companies impose, then we are in a price inflation regime and they are the ones that have absolute power. It's not even negotiation anymore, because we don't know how to go against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u98	Mrs Gerkens, first of all, I said and I repeat that the KCE can continue to do its job and answer all the questions that have been asked. Secondly, confidentiality is about prices. The questions do not concern prices but the effectiveness of the medicine and the benefit for the patient of having faster access to innovative medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u99	These were conventions - article 81. It's negotiation. Is this mechanism useful?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u100	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u101	In this case, the study is related to the price.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u102	Not at all! It's about the patient's interest. For the latter, the price is not important. The patient knows that he is prescribed a medicine that can cure him. It is not the price we pay that is important to the patient. If you were to find yourself in such a situation, would you refuse treatment because it costs the government too much? It's not important! This is the result that is important to the patient. However, the KCE can answer all the questions that have been asked. It's very important. On the other hand, the negotiated price will not be higher than the facial price. It will obviously be lower than the facial price. Why do you think negotiations are being held? To lower the price. You don't understand. We have favourable prices for our spending.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u103	Depending on all the information coming from the field, we cannot share your optimism. Higher prices can also be set.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u104	You are therefore aware of confidential information. That's what you're saying. You say that the information that has been provided to you by the field relates to aspects that are contained in the confidential part. This means that you are aware of this confidential part!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u105	I have no knowledge of the confidential part. Besides, I can't stand this confidentiality. But studies on the cost of manufacturing, patent, etc. are achieved. They show that pharmaceutical companies come with far too high initial prices. Even if they are reduced a little, they remain too high. Since access to the evaluation of the mechanism is not available, it cannot be proven and possibly changed, which is a pity. I can join you when you talk about the effort to make patients have access to new medicines, rare medicines, etc. But it's not true that the patient is not going to pay. You're imposing budget restrictions because the Health budget is exploding. The overall price of medicines contributes to this increase. So, if we can't manage things properly, other drugs will no longer be reimbursed, other benefits or care will no longer be taken care of to keep the budget balanced. It may not be the same patient who will pay, but the patient is affected by the prices that are paid for any medication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u106	There's one last thing. You said I had a veto right in the KCE.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u107	Yes, that was a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u108	You have to say things the way they are. First, the KCE has been independent since its inception. I have two representatives who are here to express everything they have to say, but I have no right of veto. I have no right of veto! I have representatives in the same way as the House has one. At one time, it was me. Now it is Mrs Muylle, but I have no right of veto, otherwise it would not be independent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u109	That is why, in my oral question, I formulated it differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u110	Question No 14295 by Jan Vercammen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u111	Minister, in accordance with the recommendations of the Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE), the conditions for reimbursement for oxygen therapy were reviewed in 2012. These new conditions tended to better balance the interests of patients with that of the community. Adjustments were then made, in particular to ensure that these reimbursements are in line with the needs of patients and caregivers. An amendment to the convention came into force on August 1, 2013 to regulate oxygen therapy for patients who are unsaturated only by effort. For these, a suitable solution has been put in place. At the end of 2013, the INAMI College of Medical Directors also assessed the regulations on the basis of all available evidence. In his view, the regulation did not pose a major problem requiring short-term adaptation. A new evaluation took place in 2015, while a new amendment to the home oxygen therapy convention was signed on July 1st of the same year. Minister, what about the current legislation in this area? Does this always seem to raise problems on the ground? Seems to be the case. Is a further assessment of this convention planned? If so, when will it take place? Are new adaptations envisaged by your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u112	Mr. Frédéric, I can confirm that after the coming into force on 1 July 2012 of the new regulation on home oxygen therapy, some problems were raised. In order to remedy this, amendments to the Convention were concluded on 1 August 2013, 1 January 2014 and 1 July 2015. The primary objective of the first study was to provide rules for patients who are unsaturated only for exercise and for small children for whom oxygen therapy with a limited flow of liquid oxygen is indicated. The other two amendments were mainly intended to prolong the effects of the convention and to objectify the presence of a chronic lung heart for some patients who suffer from night hypoxemia. The amendment concluded on 1 July 2015 extended the agreement until 30 June 2018. There is currently no evidence that the criteria and the main modalities are problematic in practice. Regulation appears to be well accepted in the field. Neither doctors specializing in pneumonology nor patients send signals suggesting otherwise. INAMI therefore does not intend to consider a new regulatory assessment. However, when the effects of the current Convention cease, the relevant INAMI bodies will position themselves as to any necessary adaptation of the rules. Moreover, if it was appropriate to adapt the regulation prematurely, before 2018, in order to take account of new developments (e.g. new types of equipment or problems), the conclusion of an amendment to the convention or even a new convention are still possible, at all times, despite the fact that the current convention remains valid until 13 June 2018. In this regard, I would remind you that the fact that the oxygen therapy agreement was concluded for an indefinite period of time did not prevent a fundamental review of the regulations as of July 1, 2012. It is always possible to terminate one convention and replace it with another. However, for the time being, there are no plans to adapt the oxygen therapy convention in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u113	Thank you for your answer. I asked this question because people had asked me a few months ago about persistent problems with access to this type of technology. I hear you're open to change the amendments. I will come back to you with concrete cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u114	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 4 October last, I asked you about the agreement negotiated with INAMI on autological breast reconstructions and, in particular, about the fact that the vast majority of the hospitals concerned had refused to subscribe to it. In your reply, you were optimistic about the forthcoming signing of the Convention by all hospitals involved. However, about ten days after your intervention, the press relayed the information that none of these hospitals complied with this agreement, and that surgeons continued to claim very high fee supplements for this type of operation. In reaction, you threatened to take complementary measures, without knowing exactly the nature of them. As a result of your reaction, several associations representing plastic surgeons denied the existence of any agreement and also specified that there had been no contact with your firm since April. As an epilogue of this battle by media outlets, it was reported on 19 October that an agreement had finally been sealed. Minister, this pass of arms in the media between your office and the associations representing plastic surgeons, in addition to illustrating a flagrant lack of cooperation, demonstrates a certain laxity in following up on this issue. How do you explain these contradictory statements when you announced from the very beginning that the file was evolving positively? Of course, I can only rejoice that an agreement has finally been reached. You talked about a balanced solution. Can you provide us with the content of this document? What positive progress has been achieved for patients? You said that no excessive supplement can be requested from them. What do you now mean by "non-excessive supplement"? Finally, have you set a deadline for the publication of this convention? When will it come into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u115	Madam Secretary, this question has been a while. So I am certainly looking forward to a state of affairs. In October, I asked you a question in plenary about the accession of hospitals to the agreements, which had been reached after long negotiations. The situation was alarming then, as the aesthetic surgeons refused to sign the agreement and even threatened to stop carrying out those kinds of interventions. At that time, you had planned a meeting between your cabinet and the aesthetic surgeons. You wanted to wait and see in the hope that the hospitals would bite, so to speak. You also said at that time that if you did not get enough results, I quote, you would be obliged to work out a scheme that will guarantee that every woman can receive this treatment without having to pay the high salary supplements. Meanwhile, there's a new deal. Perhaps I am not aware of the updates in the meantime, but on 1 November only 11 of the 62 hospitals concerned had signed the agreement. Now I don't know what you mean by "insufficient" results, but I thought that was quite inadequate. Has the situation improved in the meantime? What is the current state of affairs? Is that still so little, or are there more in the meantime? I hope so. When I looked at the list of connected hospitals, it seemed very difficult to avoid supplements in certain regions. With a state of affairs, can you take away our fear? Have you planned any further measures in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u116	Mr Senesael, mevrouw Jiroflée, the convention on breast reconstruction by autologous tissue was drawn up after intensive negotiations and consultations between INAMI and all stakeholders, such as plastic surgeons' associations and insurers. I would remind you that this convention concerns an increase in the fees for autologous breast reconstruction. Among its main objectives are to limit the patient's personal contributions to a reasonable amount so that this intervention can be accessible to a greater number of women, as well as to ensure quality criteria within the hospital. The agreement on autologous breast reconstruction was approved by the Insurance Committee on 25 July. By the end of July, all hospitals with an approved breast clinic or a satellite breast clinic were contacted and asked to apply. I have therefore allowed the consultation model that is so close to everyone's heart to play its full role and to create the necessary framework conditions in this area. I did so in close consultation with the President of the Medicomut, who was also in charge of the convention negotiations, where I was present. When it became clear that, after the conclusion of the draft convention at the beginning of July and on the ground, there was insufficient adhesion, I myself, in consultation with the President of the Medicomut, held an ultimate round of consultations with the partners concerned on 18 October. A number of misunderstandings and some blocking elements were resolved. At the end of the meeting, all parties agreed on: the guarantee that patients could be hospitalized in a two-bed room; the guarantee that the target of 40% of hospitalizations would be achieved at national level (the percentage of 40% would therefore be an average for Belgium as a whole); the guarantee that representatives of plastic surgeons would be involved in the evaluation of the convention after one year; and a slight increase in the operating wing in the main phase of autologous tissue reconstruction. As for the fee supplements requested from patients staying in a single-bed room, they remain limited to a maximum of 100% for the main procedure, i.e., Phase 1. You can find all the information about the convention on the INAMI website. In the context of public access to the administration, the whole of the'real estate' is explained there. The entry into force of the agreement varies from hospital to hospital and depends on the date of submission of each hospital's application. At present, the Convention has entered into force in some 30 hospitals. There are 62 hospitals which have an approved coordination hospital. With at least two doctors-specialists in plastic, reconstructive and aesthetic surgery must be employed in order to join the agreement. Doctors may also charge benefits in kind if they are carried out in a satellite breast clinic, although linked to a coordinating centre. More than 30 institutions have signed the agreement. There's still gonna be more. You know this goes through the Medical Council, too. As far as we can see, there is an acceptable geographical spread. It is also necessary for the women who need a reconstruction to know where to go. A list is therefore kept and published. It shall also be mentioned from when the scheme enters into force. A lot of them started in January and there are also some in the pipeline. At the time I was shot out of my bones, Mrs Jiroflée, there were no accessions yet. We knew some of them were working on it. I found it unacceptable that there were no more. It is also good that the university clinics and large centres are present. In the meantime, other hospitals have also committed themselves. It is intended that we should recommend women to go to these clinics because they care about a few thousand euros. There are also satellite hospitals. We do our best to keep the website up-to-date. Half the hospitals that can join have already joined. It can always be better. We hope that some will join us. It is more interesting for women if they have more choice and a trusted hospital in between. I think it needs to be carefully weighed so that they know where they end up, so that they know that they have these conditions... after all, it's very detailed. It's about the three phases. The first phase is the microsurgical transplant of the tissue. The second phase is the possible additional remodeling. The third phase is tattooing the nipple and creating the nipple court. That's actually the fine finish. That is also included, because we know that those supplements used to show up there. So it's really important to split all that up. There again, therefore, the call to report any suspected infringements or misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u117	Minister, thank you for your clarifications and your answers. I will consult the site to get an idea and eventually make some comments. In conclusion, I think you've done well to get angry to push the schmilblick forward!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u118	Madam Minister, I fully agree with Mr Senesael. Apparently, that helps. I thought it was too little at first, but what also bothered me was the poor geographical distribution. In the meantime, if it is better and acceptable, then I am very happy with it. I hope with you that there will still be a few more, so that women have a real choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u119	Madam President, I propose to turn my question No 14385 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u120	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u121	Minister, I am making this proposal to avoid doing reading exercises just for fun. However, I am very interested in the question. I will also turn my question No 14421 into a written question because the law has evolved as there has been an amendment. So I got what I wanted to get. I will ask question No 14387.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u122	Minister, there are too many cases of assault by health professionals and, recently, a series of attacks by general practitioners on very heavy bodily harm and psychological damage have taken place. But they face additional difficulties. I am challenged by the insurer's refusal (from whom they have contracted professional liability insurance - sometimes for very many years) to cover the costs of health care related to the aggression, which is all that is covered by this insurance. Doctors have the ethical obligation to take out professional insurance in civil liability, which states that "the victim of a medical error is entitled to compensation for the damage caused by this fault and any doctor must be insured for this purpose". Minister, I've already talked about this on one occasion or the other, but you're not supposed to know about it. What are the means and remedies available to assaulted doctors to meet these costs resulting from an act of violence committed in the context of their professional activity? Is this mentioned in the working group composed of generalists and collaborators from the interior and public health, a working group to which you referred in a previous question and which is responsible for drawing up a strategic plan to "make it possible to support doctors effectively in the performance of their mission"? Do you intend to act in this area? I plead so that we can deal with it at some point. That seems fundamental to me. It seems to me that we must oblige insurers to provide for automatic coverage of the costs resulting from an assault on the professional liability insurance of doctors, provided that this aggression occurred in the course of their professional activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u123	Mrs Fonck, first of all, the safety of all health professionals is of course important to me. I note that article 410bis of the Criminal Code provides for increased penalties when the crime or offence was committed against, inter alia, an ambulance attendant, a doctor, a pharmacist, a physiotherapist, a nurse, etc. With regard to the position of the doctor as a civil party, the traditional procedures of responsibility of the aggressor are followed. You are wondering to what extent the insurance provided by the doctor can intervene. When the doctor has an independent status, the interventions of these insurances, possibly in subrogation, may vary according to the policies and therefore according to the personal situations. However, some insurance companies are examining the possibility of introducing a policy against assaults. But we must of course add measures of registration, prevention, information and communication. The attacks on generalists in recent years have rightly attracted the attention of the media, but also of all those responsible for the health care sector. In addition to a contact point for assaults, the Order of Physicians has launched a "DIFFICULTED MEDICINS – ARTSEN IN NOOD" initiative; this initiative is part of the broad problem of providing assistance in the event of psychological problems among doctors and pays particular attention to the problem of assaults. It is clear that the conclusions and recommendations will receive my full attention. I would add that this problem is not unique to our country. In France, the National Council of the Order of Physicians established an observatory for the safety of doctors and published a practical guide. It provides the physician with advice on the analysis of these risks and vulnerabilities, as well as suggestions for prevention of the cabinet's equipment and layout, as well as its safety during patient travel. The procedure for filing a complaint is also explained. Work continues. I presented the project to the College of Physicians. Thanks to them, we will know how many people are involved and what regions are drowned in difficulties. However, there will always be unstable and emotionally dangerous patients. Home-based nurses and mobile mental health care teams are also involved in this issue. So there is still a great work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u124	Madam Minister, thank you. Recently, I asked you and Minister Jambon about the attacks on any health care professional, whether they take place in the patient's home or in the medical office. I made a few suggestions. My present question was focused on professional liability insurance. I hear what you're telling me. Some companies are considering police against assaults. I will be frank with you: this is not right. It is very easy to create insurance policies with new premiums, but without ambiguity to exclude from professional civil liability an attack on a health actor in the exercise of his profession is unacceptable! This problem concerns you, the Minister of Economy and others of your colleagues. That is why I plead for the government to take proactive steps towards the insurance sector, in particular Assuralia. This approach to the professional RC seems to me to be inadmissible. I therefore plead with you, as I will with some of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u125	Joined Questions No 14571 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 14720 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou are transformed into written questions. Question No 14597 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is also transformed into a written question. Question No 14602 by Mrs Valerie Van Peel is postponed at her request. Questions No 14619, No 14621, No 14653, No 16030, No 14623 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp are postponed. His question No 14642 is transformed into a written question. His question No 15951 is postponed. His question No 14654 is not relevant since this point has been addressed in the discussions on the budget. Questions Nos 14660 by Mrs Catherine Fonck, 14985 and 14986 by Mrs Anne Dedry, 14989 by Mrs Valérie Van Peel and 16157 by Mr Philippe Blanchart are postponed. Questions No 14661, No 16034, No 14667, No 14668 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, Question No 16301 by Mr Philippe Blanchart, Questions No 14670, No 14675 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, Question No 14714 by Mrs Anne Dedry, Questions No 14716 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Question No 16303 by Mr Philippe Blanchart are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u126	Minister, this is a subject that affects a lot of people. We are all concerned at some point. This is the possible presence of carcinogens in baby diapers. The brand was quoted in the press: it is Pampers. A study was carried out by an independent laboratory at the request of ASEF (Association Santé Environnement France). It concludes that carcinogens are present in baby diapers. The product involved is petrolatum, which is used to protect the skin from babies' buttocks. The levels found, of 0.2 mg per kilogram of diaper, are, I think, below the threshold allowed by European regulations, but I have to check that. These rates are still tolerated by the European Union, as long as the rate does not exceed 0.2 mg per kilo. The only thing is that petrolatum is a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH). PAHs are derived from oil and are classified as carcinogens by the European Union. You're going to tell me that it's no problem if it's the rules. However, this study is not of interest. A certain rate is defined. But we know that children, even more babies, have a much greater sensitivity to toxic products than adults. Minister, would it not be important to check the findings of this study to quantify exactly the rate of these carcinogens in the layers? Could your colleague in charge of consumer protection also look into this issue? Is there a need for a special approach with regard to children's swaths and products? Should we not make a difference by prohibiting the presence of this famous polycyclic hydrocarbon in products intended for children and babies?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u127	Mrs Fonck, the study mentioned was not commissioned by ASEF, as indicated on the Association's website, but by a producer of natural layers Love & Green. He's a competitor. Detailed results of the analyses performed are not available. The competent services of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment plan in 2017 to have personal hygiene items such as tampons, sanitary towels and children's diapers analysed in order to identify the products and impurities contained and possibly dangerous. In 2010, the SPF had already conducted a review of the scientific literature on the composition of these articles in order to identify potentially dangerous and possibly present articles. If possible risks to human health were identified, I would take steps to eliminate them. We are not aware of European standards for these products. The European limits for petrolatum, this white vaseline, in European REACH legislation, come from its classification as calcinogenic substance 1B. It is therefore prohibited to place on the market for the general public, in concentrations greater than 0,1 % as a substance or as a constituent of a mixture. This restriction does not apply to the articles. If the study had been commissioned by ASEF, we would have looked at it, but as it comes from Love & Green, this is not the case. We must always be very careful because it concerns babies who carry diapers for months. The Association's website is quite Love & Green!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u128	Madam Minister, thank you. This study carried out by a competitor is therefore to be taken with "discernment". In view of the warning signal it gives us, it is indeed essential to carry out a toxicological analysis on hygiene products. Let's recognize that the exposure time for tangs, so for the baby's buttocks, is very long. We know the sensitivity and possible absorption at the skin level, as a child is not an adult. Besides, it's a known carcinogen. Either we will be reassured by this analysis, which will be carried out in 2017, which will be good news. Either, if this is not the case, it will be a matter of taking very clear action. When this study is completed, I thank you in advance for the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u129	Colleagues, under the Rules of Procedure, a question can be deferred to a resumption and then turned into a written question. Question No 14763 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and questions No 14774 and No 14775 by Mr Damien Thiéry are postponed. Question No 14914 by Mrs Sonja Becq was withdrawn. Question No 14920 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u130	Minister, I do not go back to the entire file on Soliris and eculizumab for the prevention of post-graft recidivism in patients with atypical haemolytic and uremic syndrome (AHS). In January 2016, you said that about 20 patients were affected. Why am I coming back to you today? Because I would like to make it clear to the patients concerned, including children and adults, who have been in dialysis for a long time and who are waiting to be included in the list. Were the regulatory procedures necessary to arrive at a definitive solution in terms of reimbursement adopted? What is the final regulatory framework for the reimbursement of Soliris? In drafting this regulatory framework, have you followed the scientific literature that demonstrates efficacy in post-graft prophylactic indication with a risk of 80% recurrence of SHUa in the first year after renal transplantation and 0% recidivism with eculizumab? The scientific literature shows that there is a risk but it is significantly reduced provided that Soliris is ingurgitated for one year after transplantation. Is the regulatory framework well defined on evidence-based? Could you also give us the number of files submitted for reimbursement of the Soliris with regard to the post-graft indication? How many files have been accepted so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. I would like to inform you that my decision on reimbursement of proprietary medicinal products is based on the proposal of the Committee on Reimbursement of Medicinal Products, which has the task of examining in depth the dossier of applications for reimbursement. The Commission is currently examining under this procedure the conditions for reimbursement of Eculizumab in the context of prophylactic use in a patient with atypical uremic haemolytic syndrome who has received a kidney transplant. This procedure has not yet been completed. As a result, no decision has yet been taken. As long as the procedure is under way, I am not in a position to give you more information, neither about timing nor about content. As you know, the Soliris is currently refundable in two directions. Atypical HUS and night paroxysmal hemoglobinuria. The figures I am going to mention have been transmitted to me by the College of Physicians for Orphan Medicines, for both indications. Given that these colleges are advisory bodies for medical consultants, not all applications have yet been submitted and some of them are still in the process of being processed. But they make it possible to obtain a good estimate of the current situation. In the case of HPN, nocturnal paroxysmal hemoglobinuria, there were 56 applications for first reimbursement to the college; 52 received a positive opinion and in these cases reimbursement was granted. In the indication that we are also concerned about, namely the atypical HUS, there are so far 60 files, but almost a third concerns an application for post-transplantation prophylactic use, which is actually not yet refundable according to the regulations in force described in paragraph 66 of Chapter 4 of the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products. In December 2015, I obtained an agreement in principle with Alexion that, pending a solution in terms of reimbursements, she would make this medicine available to these patients. However, I have also requested that Soliris aHUS College be consulted in advance on this case. The College does not therefore give an opinion on the reimbursement as defined in the current regulations but consults, which must, on the basis of the dossier submitted by the specialist, corroborate whether it is an atypical aHUS and/or renal insufficiency at the end stage and, on the other hand, judge the best time for prophylaxis recommended on the basis of the risk factors presented in this dossier. These periods of prophylaxis were established by the working group set up in December 2015 and made up of specialists. There are three durations: zero, three and six months, depending on the risk involved. With regard to applications for this preventive, post-transplantation use, about one third, or seven patients, were found to be at low risk not requiring post-graft Eculizumab, but I must also point out that for half of them, the atypical nature of aHUS was not considered to be probative; other risks existed. Fourteen patients were currently considered to be at intermediate risk, i.e. three months of high treatment or six months of treatment. One patient received treatment with a Soliris drug as part of a prophylactic use after a kidney transplant. This is the current situation and I do not know how long it will take to get all the figures, but it was necessary. This process took time because, as you know, it's not enough to get the refund, you have to be able to find the transplant and the donors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u132	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Is Alexion the one who distributes the medicine? He's not paid back? Or is he reimbursed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u133	He's paid back. We requested that the contract for reimbursement begin immediately. And at that time, it was Alexion again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u134	All right. So now he's paid back. I would like to make two or three comments. First of all, I would like to point out that these patients had a very difficult journey; they could not be grafted because it was known that they would automatically repeat the SHUa on the graft and ethically for them but also for other patients who were deprived of a graft, it was not possible to take the risk of a major recidivism on the graft. They have waited a long time in dialysis, so I ask you to also warn the committee for patients who are still waiting. Some of them introduced their files a long time ago. You have to be careful about it. The time to obtain a graft is sometimes very long for people with dialysis and end-stage renal insufficiency. This period depends on a series of criteria. I would also like to mention the fact that, if I understand correctly, patients who have a high risk of recurrence of SHUa will be eligible for six months of reimbursement of the Soliris. But evidence-based and scientific literature are implacable on the subject: for high risks, it takes a year of Soliris after the transplant. After a year, the risk is really starting to decrease. Treating these patients at high risk of recidivism for only six months is a significant risk for them to repeat their graft. For them, it would be disaster and for the State, it would cost much more. Because in case of recidivism, we give them the medicine anyway. It would be much cheaper for the state to give preventive treatment for one year rather than six months, as the preventive effect would be much more important. These patients cannot be allowed to reoffend, whether for themselves, for the graft or for the costs to the state. I would therefore like to draw your attention to this point. Scientific literature is implacable on this subject. It would, in my view, be a mistake to prescribe only six months of Soliris to patients who have a high risk of recidivism after the transplant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u135	We come back to questions Nos. 14605 and 14607 by Mr Hedebouw. Many questions are postponed. If their authors are not present next time, they will be transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u136	Madam Minister, Christian Mutuality believes that unreasonable medical wages should be addressed. A study by the KCE first broke the taboo about these excessive fees in 2012. In Flanders, kidney specialists took home an average of 636 000 euros gross per year, radiologists 461,000 euros, clinical biologists 431,000 euros, heart specialists 338 000 euros and gastro-intestinal specialists 311,000 euros. Please note that this amounts to amounts after the withdrawal of the contributions to the hospital, which are on average 40%, and without the income from their private practice. Moreover, the differences in income between specialities are very large. Geriaters, psychiatrists or psychiatrists earned around 200 000 euros according to the KCE study. It is not normal for those who work with machines to earn three times as much as those last specialists, who mainly work with people. The solution to put an end to these exorbitant fees is simple: pay all doctors the decent salary of university professors, between 7 000 and 12 000 euros per month, depending on experience and qualifications, with full social security and pension building and extras for extra performance and extra quality. This system is already being applied by law in university hospitals. Academic specialists receive a fixed salary and should not charge any supplements. For example, doctors should no longer be involved in setting up bvba's, with numbers and administration, they should not have to worry about the funding of their hospital and be able to concentrate entirely on the patient. Specialists with great responsibilities and commitment can certainly earn more than the Prime Minister of this country, but not twice or three times as much, as is often the case today. This solution saves RIZIV a few billion euros a year. It also benefits healthy motivation, work and quality of life for doctors and patients. Madam Secretary, what measures will you take to tackle the problem of excessive doctors' wages in some specialists? Secondly, what is your position on the proposal to pay all doctors the decent salary of university professors, as is already required by law in university hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u137	Thank you for your question, Mr Hedebouw. The demand for a review and simplification of the nomenclature has existed for many years. The variations between the different disciplines have been known for a long time, but in some cases need to be nuanced. The KCE report to which you refer over and over again and which was delivered at the time of my predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, should be approached with great caution. The same applies to the too general conclusions which have often been drawn in recent years. At the same time, the fact that fees are to be determined in a transparent manner also means that the real cost of performance is reasonably taken into account. Irresponsible differences in the performance of different medical specialties and general medical practice are eliminated most progressively. In this context, it should be noted that a lot of measures have already been taken in the last ten years under compulsory health insurance, which has meant an important upgrading of, for example, the reimbursement of general practitioners. The same can be said of a number of cognitive performances, e.g. consultations, especially for the bottleneck disciplines, and the coordination, consultation and coordination in multidisciplinary cooperation, which have also been better appreciated in recent years in the context of compulsory insurance. The current administrative agreement of the State with the RIZIV provides for the drawing up of a new basic plan for the nomenclature of medical benefits, which will also take account of some of the observations made. Harmonisation of fees must certainly also be approached, including the revision of hospital funding. The cost of the materials or products used in the provision of care should not have a direct impact on the fees charged by the healthcare provider sensu stricto. The elimination of differences in the total fees charged for hospital treatment where there is low variable care is another aspect of the same problem. All this is currently under investigation to determine which adjustments are appropriate. This is also happening in the context of several research projects under that reform programme. You are also talking about an average percentage of the fees paid to hospitals. It should be noted that this percentage may vary considerably according to the specialty and hospital where the services are provided. The investments required to provide certain benefits in kind also vary widely between the different specializations and even within the same specialism. All this does not facilitate a one-size-fits-all approach, but at the same time indicates that the problem cannot simply be solved with simple recipes. It may be noted that the fees paid by doctors contribute to the financing of our hospitals to a very important extent. In previous years, this has even become a little more than the budget of the financial resources does. Payments up to 82% are known. Mrs Fonck has now left the Chamber, but, among other things, contributions of up to 82% or more are quoted in the case of nephrologists. For me, it cannot be the intention that a review, let alone an equalisation, of all fees would remove any incentive for productivity and specialisation. As you may have read in recent days, Belgium scores the maximum score for the European Health Index, which has recently been published by the Health Consumer Powerhouse in terms of accessibility. This accessibility for our patients is a priority and important issue for me. It is the strong argument of our healthcare system, if we compare it with many other countries around us. I don't want that to go down either. A funding system that facilitates waiting lists and could therefore be a threat to the accessibility of care is not my choice and I will therefore avoid it at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u138	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You start by relativizing the numbers first, but you don't necessarily come with other numbers. I think that the KCE's finding is still at the level of the different types of trades, of the different specializations. The different orders of magnitude are still strong. You relativize for finally what is called in Dutch "ondersneeuwen", the bazaar. The question is whether there are a lot of specialists who are earning too much in Belgium today and who are costing us at the level of the Secu because that is the question. I will come back later on the issue of accessibility of care. There, you turn around the pot a bit saying that there are cases where you give more and others where you give less and that, in fact, there is no bottom blade, I would say. We still have a problem in Belgium. We have specialists who earn three to four times what a university professor earns. This is not only the case for patients but also for the security budget. For accessibility, you are the first to say that you need numbers and you need to save money. I now propose that you do so, but you do not take my proposal into account. There is a way to save money for specialists. Do them at home and not in antibiotic refunds, etc. I don't think we'll agree, but I heard you're going to think about that logic in the future. So I hope we can find points of agreement in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u139	Madam Secretary, all antibiotics on the site of the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information or BCFI are classified as cheap. That is because in 2012 Minister Onkelinx obliged pharmacists to take away the cheapest brand of any active substance for any prescription for antibiotics or antifungals. In other words, the pharmacists, although only for antibiotics and antifungals, are entitled to a subsidy, which has been in force in neighbouring countries for years. As a result, all brand names, including the more expensive originals, reduced their prices to the level of the cheapest generic product. That has generated tens of millions of euros, money that we paid too much all these years, when the patent of those products was over. The producers reduced their prices to the level of the cheapest product, but not lower, so that their product could be delivered as the cheapest. However, Belgian cheap medicines are still two to six times more expensive than Dutch products with kiwi prices. Since that measure, it is no longer the doctor who decides which brand name is delivered from a particular antibiotic, but the pharmacist. It has to deliver the cheapest and all brands are equally cheap. As a perverse consequence, the pharmaceutical companies have shifted their marketing from the doctors to the pharmacists. For antibiotics they offer discounts to the pharmacist, for example buy four boxes, get a fifth. The pharmacist then increases his profit margin by 20% at the expense of the RIZIV and the patient. Madam Secretary, are you prepared to ban and strictly monitor this practice at the expense of the RIZIV? In the Netherlands, a form of tender was introduced by health insurers to put an end to the bad discount practices of pharmaceutical companies to pharmacists. Madam Secretary, are you prepared to investigate that system with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u140	Mr Hedebouw, you were not yet a representative of the people, but Minister Demotte, among others, spent a great deal of time investigating the kiwi system. The problem is that the health insurance system in Belgium is very different from that in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, it is the eight health insurers who manage the health budget and who, through public procurement, reduce the cost of medicines once alternatives are available. In Belgium, such public tenders for these medicines only take place in hospitals and in vaccinations, but that is a competence of the Communities. So Belgium has a very different system. My predecessor Minister Demotte put a lot of time and energy into it to see if that kiwi system was also implementable in our system. We had the kiwi system, it was not possible. Then there was the kiwi light, the minikiwi and then no kiwi. Two medicines have been selected, a lowering of blood pressure and a lowering of cholesterol, but ultimately it was not possible to implement the system. Belgium has a very different system. The Senate has even traveled to New Zealand to investigate the kiwi system there. We have also had hearings on this, on which your good friend Mr Van Duppen has been more than once. The Dutch system is still a very different system from ours. Belgium has created its own set of price control instruments, which, as you said, were worked on by my predecessor Mrs Onkelinx, but also by Mr Vandenbroucke. I have tried to renew these mechanisms and I have tried to apply further price reductions, including by introducing the patent cliff, which has caused very significant price reductions for the government and for the patient in the context of the pact with the pharmaceutical industry. In addition, there are the prescribing quotas, the cheapest prescription for general practitioners and dentists, which I have introduced and which are now being increased from 50% to 60%. They have also brought dynamism to the market. Everyone wants to be in the cheapest slide. As a result, there have been a lot of price cuts. The definition of "cheapest regulation' is also narrowed on 1 January. If with the cheapest medicine plus the fork of 5 % three medicines remain available, the fork of 5 % will be retained. If the fork of 5 % does not apply, the difference between the cheapest and the second cheapest medicinal product may not exceed 20%, whereas until now there was no restriction on the fork. There too, prices will go down again. You can't help that you weren't here at the time, but there are a lot of parliamentary documents on the kiwi. I cannot tell you how many meetings of the Health Committee and plenary sessions there were at that time. I see a few people here who were there at the time. By the way, there were some hilarious meetings. I think Minister Demotte has taken everything out of the closet to introduce a kiwi system if that would have been possible. In Belgium, this model is not compatible with our system. I fit in to opt for the Dutch system with health insurance companies. After all, we all know that there are longer waiting times there, that many patients have to come to Belgium, that not all patients from the Netherlands can come to Belgium. So there are also two speeds there and the health insurance companies make terrible choices for the patients, so that they are sometimes no longer eligible for treatment. If I have to choose between two systems, then I choose our system. Our system is without kiwi. If there are public tenders, such as vaccination programmes and hospitals, that is obviously the right way to go, but that is not the kiwi you mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u141	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I did not point to the kiwi model but rather to the aggressive campaigns that are being transposed from the world of doctors to pharmacies, at the level of pharmaceutical companies. Rather, that's what it's about with discounts. I've got ads in front of my eyes. It almost looks like we're selling shoes: "Zithromax, 250 mg x 6: -20%, korting aangeboden op Pfizer". So we're really in aggressive advertising campaigns. My question was about that. That's what I was worried about, because it's done on the back of INAMI. I note that there have not been many answers. As far as the overall debate on the kiwi model is concerned, the first thing is to see these price differences just by crossing the border. Indeed, there is a difference between the two systems and fortunately. I also prefer the Belgian system. And, given that there are eight insurance companies, that we have a social security system that centralizes all the collective purchasing power of the Belgian population in relation to these companies, I want to say that the application should in some way be easier. Indeed, our balance of power is stronger in Belgium than in the Netherlands. We've got everything in our hands! I understand that some socialist colleagues or ministers dropped the subject in the 2000s. Of course, that's not what will convince me to give up this fight. I even want to add a little layer, because I think we can actually get this kiwi model here in Belgium. A bill has been tabled to that effect. Minister, we will continue the work on the ground in terms of the balance of power. Thank you for your answers and wish you a good evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u142	All reports of discussions on these topics can be found on the House and Senate website.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u143	Can I suggest something? I have made great use of this as a young parliamentarians. If one really wants to dive into a file, one can have a package made here by the library of the Chamber. That is then ready and one should not look for it on one's own.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u144	Dirk Van Duppen requested this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u145	That really is a huge source of information. The new library is remarkable as well as its staff!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic583x.u146	And the staff of the commissions are also remarkable as well as the interpreters. Everyone in this house is remarkable. Some hide in the back of the room or behind.
