ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed, following yesterday's hearing of the Court of Auditors, we will have an exchange this time with the Minister. This exchange will be of a political nature, since yesterday I asked for the questions to be of a technical nature. Mr Minister, yesterday in committee we decided to give the floor first to all the political groups, that the floor would be no more than 12 minutes per group and that you would then reply. This is the way our work is going this afternoon! I shall now give the floor to Mrs De Coninck, who will have to take care of the time allotted and think of the translators by not speaking too quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u2	Madam President, I will try to stick to the timing. However, my tone will be somewhat different from yesterday, when the Court of Auditors, with appreciation for their work, gave an explanation. Yesterday it was intended to ask technical questions, not to hold a political debate. However, it has to be said, ladies and gentlemen, that the Court of Auditors' report is downright devastating for the GEN project. It's actually a story of conjoined missed opportunities. I therefore find it staggering that parties who have been delivering ministers of mobility for many years are now dumping themselves like vultures on this project and trying to transfer the hot potato to this government. I will not dwell on the importance or objectives of the GEN. I believe that these objectives are noble and that at the outset no one opposed them. The intention was to create a modal shift from the car to public transport in the GEN zone, or a 30 km zone around Brussels, I think we can conclude that the GEN project has failed, or at least is not yet ready. On top of that, it has exceeded its budget because of wrong political choices made by parties that are now criticizing this government. What also struck me, and I asked the Court of Auditors additional questions yesterday, is the Brussels-Europe terminal. The HST terminal was scheduled in Brussels-South. I believe that this is a political choice, motivated solely by the real estate interests of then PS mayor or Prime Minister Charles Picqué, who saw with it lucrative reasons to appreciate his municipality, a somewhat decaying problem district. The Brussels-Europe slope, as the Court of Auditors mentioned yesterday, was abandoned or abandoned in 2003. Then delivered, I think, sp.a. the Minister for Mobility. The Brussels-Europe slope would have been a better slope, as we could avoid so many HST trains going through the north-south link. And it is that north-south link that from the beginning was problematic to achieve the goals that the GEN was aiming for. The statements of the Court of Auditors have been confirmed to me in a book on the choice of the HST station. It literally states: "The High Speed Train was also considered a priority by the Federal Minister of Transport Di Rupo at the time. In order to fill the financial pit, SNCB has deleted the suburban network investment from the next ten-year plan. That concludes my speech on the wrong political choice of the HST terminal, which also affected the achievement of the objectives of the GEN. With regard to the organisation of the whole GEN project, we can say that a whole structure was established: an ECMM, a steering committee, GEN. Eventually, Minister Labille never called the ECMM together. According to the agreement, the steering committee had to meet every three months. Minister Magnette reduced the steering committee, which included representatives of the regional transport companies. The transport companies were no longer at the table, which was yet another missed opportunity to meet the objectives for the GEN. As regards the financial consequences, the Court of Auditors' study makes it very clear that the government has paid out sufficient funds. However, we see that we will now end up at the beginning of the year with a cost of EUR 1.55 billion, with an amount of EUR 3 billion. The Court of Auditors made explicit reservations here yesterday as to whether the costs required for line 124 and line 161 could be carried out within the estimates. There is also the whole discussion about the 60/40 key. Mr Minister, I have a first clear question for you: can you confirm that the 60/40 key has been complied with? The sentence in the Court of Auditors' report, which states that the key is now 80/20, concerns capacity retention for the sake of investments needed in the area of capacity conservation and security. Yesterday, the Court of Auditors made it very clear that it was a reference to an Infrabel report. Mr Minister, if the 60/40 key has been respected, it seems to me that Walloon resources have been invested in matters other than the GEN. Can you clarify that? Finally, I am not questioning the added value of the GEN at all, but at the beginning it was said that a need analysis was needed every five years. It was only performed once, being in 2009. No consensus was reached at that time and the objectives of the GEN were reduced and delayed. So that was once again a missed opportunity to achieve the original objectives. The Court of Auditors also cites this and says that it has no guarantee that the works currently planned in the area of rail will contribute to achieving these objectives. There is no estimate of how many modal shift or mobility shifts would be achieved. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. First of all, can you confirm that 60/40 has been respected? Secondly, what action are you going to take to respond to the Court of Auditors' conclusions? Thirdly, what are your views on the proposal to make a new need analysis? Fourthly, how are you going to remedy the gap between the expenditure still to be achieved and the scarce budget available for the Walloon part of the GEN? Fifth, what is your response to the analysis that investment in the Walloon GEN connections was lagging behind due to excessive investment in station buildings in Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u3	I am not going to argue directly about the intervention of the N-VA, which we have just heard. We are fortunate to have an objective report from the Court of Auditors. We can rewrite the story, Mrs De Coninck, because this report is probably disturbing. But it's an independent report. Since 2001, the socialists have had the portfolio of Mobility for two and a half years and all the other parties for the rest of the time. The MR, on the other hand, has had this portfolio for two and a half years, too. That's for the objective facts! Minister, in this report, we learned that the government has committed – and has fulfilled this commitment – to contribute $2,184 billion to the RSP Fund from 2004 to 2014, which was included in the agreement. According to the Court of Auditors, the work was never interrupted because of a lack of money in the RER Fund. In 2015, this MR-N-VA government was released from the commitments of the agreement, which lasted until 2014, but decided to reduce the allocation of SNCB and Infrabel and to cancel the multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025. However, as the Court of Auditors points out, the RER work could have been financed by a standard allocation. This was included in the convention. A classic endowment, Minister, is asking our two companies for 3 billion savings in five years. In view of the abolition of the investment plan, the Court of Auditors has shown that the work has been completely completed since 2015. That's the reality! The MR/N-VA Government could not only, but should have, offset the end of these instalment payments. Indeed, the closure of the work results in further delays and an estimated additional cost – which was repeated yesterday by the Court of Auditors – at a range of between €45 million and €47 million. The continuation of the 2013-2025 IPP would have prevented the total cessation of the RER work. Today, the conclusion is that at least 800 million are missing. Minister, you yourself said that this is an undervaluation. With regard to key 60/40, again, problems were raised by the Court of Auditors. I will quote it. It acknowledges that "the works of art being more numerous in the Walloon Region, the maintenance of the tracks absorbs in it a greater proportion of the amounts allocated for the investments." Added to this are the particularly heavy safety requirements on rugged networks in Wallonia. They have become a priority following the Buizingen accident, which we obviously do not question; but they have become a priority after the 2001 Convention and after the 60/40 allocation key was set. This means, and this is what we are talking about 80/20, that, given the safety work, given the specificities of the Walloon rail, when one affects only 40% in Wallonia, given the compensation to be granted to Flanders, only 20% can be allocated to capacity extensions and therefore to the RER. This is fully reflected in the Court's report. It also considers that 54% of the delays on line 161 are explained by the application of this key 60/40. Therefore, in order to respect the general balance of this distribution key, the work is slowed down. The financial consequences are not negligible, since the money is intended to secure the construction sites at a halt and to prevent deterioration. Mr Minister, we sincerely believe that security investments must be taken out of the 60/40 allocation key, since a Walloon life is worth as much as a Brussels or Flemish life. These investments were decided upon after the determination of this key. The same goes for the RER. For us, of course, this is a project of a national nature and of general interest. The FEB says it and repeats it: it is important for the Brussels economy and its hinterland. I would point out that the Flemish sections of line 124 and 161 have been removed because they are transregional. The same applies to the airport, which also participates in the Flemish RER. It is therefore time to rebalance towards Wallonia. We must apply the goed bestuur, dear to the N-VA. In other words, the money invested by the Crown in the form of endowments must be used for as effective policies as possible. To do this, you have to get out of the 60/40 key. I will say a word about the evolution of the billion, minister. It has already been announced by the Prime Minister. If we stick to the 60/40 key, only 233 million euros would be dedicated to the RER. Do you want to apply the key to this virtuous billion? Can you explain how this billion was put together? Will it be sufficient to ensure four-tracking? How will the federal government compensate the billion or two times five hundred million? Where will they be allocated by the simple return effect? What about the budget deficit? How will Infrabel and SNCB divide the debt caused by this billion? We know, indeed, - the press reports yesterday - that the PPI, validated by all the Flemish administrators and invalidated by the French-speaking administrators, does not provide for debt for Infrabel. How are you going to ask Infrabel to take over a debt of 500 million euros? What is the timing of completion for Nivelles, La Hulpe, Rixensart and Waterloo stations and how many car parks are planned? In February 2016, Prime Minister Michel, following the statements of Mrs Galant, who had aroused a lot of emotion among the mayors of the Walloon Brabant, repeated that a four-track set-up would be carried out entirely and not partially. Today, do you confirm that the Walloon RER will be a full four-lane upgrade as the Prime Minister planned at the time? Thank you, Minister and Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u4	Mrs Lalieux, you have fully respected the speaking time indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u5	Mr Minister, one thing is clear: this report was perfectly enlightening over the last twenty years. So laudable was the soundness of the RER project from the outset, and I take the words of the Court of Auditors, "the scheme was unrealistic and unrealizable." Let's note a certain amateurism of Minister Durand at the time for announcements and timings! When the project is launched in 2006, the delay is already one year from the announced deadlines. We're late before we start! It's pretty "comic" to see during your Thursday program in Prime, Laurette Onkelinx, Minister of Mobility at that time, announcing hard as iron that the RER would be finished in 2012. I especially want to say that if we are here today, if we are talking about it, it is because all your predecessors have not done their job; a fortiori, all those who were in charge of Mobility before 2015. I understand that work was to be planned in 2015 when in 2015 it should have been completed for some time. Minister, I have a few questions about situations that are difficult to understand. Sometimes I wonder if the Court of Auditors has not worked a little more on the RER than ministers of some time, since the Executive Committee of Ministers of Mobility does not meet. I don't know if it's for lack of interest. I don't know why. Perhaps you have information about the reasons for these "non-meetings"? We end up with a laudable project, but it's a little headless. Similarly, the Steering Committee, whose rules of procedure provide that the Chairman shall convene meetings, shall not meet. From memory, it met five times instead of about forty times. In the current circumstances, I hope that these people, if paid, were paid by token of presence and not by a fixed amount, which would be difficult to understand. The RER was also a multimodal approach. In other words, it had a role to play at the level of transport companies. I cannot speak of Flanders that I know less, but for Wallonia there is now a decrease in the number of kilometres travelled by the TECs. Lines are removed, even in rural areas that are expensive to some parties around the table, such as the MR. We have no information from the Court of Auditors on this. Do you have any information on the investments made by the different regional companies in the RER project? I come to the 60/40 key, which is, as the Court of Auditors says, a source of delays. This is not the only source of delay. There is a list of additional costs for this project. I would still like to recall that this key 60/40 was the subject of a relatively broad agreement in 2002. If I am not mistaken, it has been accepted by all Regions and by all parties. All the so-called traditional parties are around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u6	It is quite interesting to see that today we would come to question it, knowing, as Infrabel wrote, that this key becomes 80/20 for network extensions. It's quite surprising! But this seems understandable if only network extensions are considered. It may have been necessary to redirect millions to the RER rather than to pharaonic stations. Because the stations also fit into the 40% Walloons. Automatically, when you invest in stations, you don't invest in network extension. It's obvious. I would like to have your opinion on this key 60/40. What do you think? Should it be relaxed or, as the Court of Auditors has suggested, considered on a multiannual basis? To be sure that I understand correctly, because what I am hearing today is not entirely in line with what I read in the Court of Auditors' report, what was included in the 2013-2025 IPP on the ER? Another point raised by the Court of Auditors is your sectioned approach. It is quite obvious and logical, if one considers the terrain, that it is smarter to operate in sections than to do work everywhere. Is that the approach you continue to defend for the years to come? I would also like your opinion on the additional costs imposed by the Regions in the permits. It is not the municipalities that have imposed conditions for the granting of permits. I would like to remind you that while some mayors have wished to have work, the Region has imposed these conditions. Was it a way for the Regions to support the ER, since they had a role to play with the transport companies? But doing it with federal money doesn't seem to me to be good management. I still wanted your opinion on the role of the Mobility FPS. I read that he had followed the RSP file in his own way, without too much control of expenditure or on significant amounts. I wonder if Mr Ledoux should be rehearsed about these shortcomings, but I think he has other cats to whip. I would also like to hear your views on this role of the Mobility FPS. What improvements do you intend to make in its operation? In the same way, we made the history of the case. Now we know what or those who were the RER fosseurs. I hope you're going to make him rise from his ashes thanks to your action. I hope we have the information about the billion that will be invested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u7	Mr Minister, the excellent report that has been made by the Court of Auditors, which puts the truth in place in relation to the fantasies about the ER, must be stressed. We will all agree that, in the end, the RER was a very bad case because, as I said yesterday, we are in Magritte's country: "This is not a pipe". "This wasn't a RER." And this is still not! Because a real RER is the intermodal. This was foreseen from the outset in the 2002-2003 Convention and Cooperation Agreement, but in fact it was limited to rail. On the other hand, the state has already spent more than EUR 2 billion on the RER, which is not nothing in a country that has been known to be in debt since the 1990s. The supplementary billion, on which we expect further clarification from the minister, will come to a close. However, it must be agreed that I do not know a single large file, in Belgium or elsewhere, where there are no overruns. I take the example of Zaventem airport: there were overtakings. I take the current example of the Berlin airport, which should have been open for four or five years and which a number of shortcomings prevent it from opening. The last example is that of the Hamburg Opera which has just been inaugurated and which has cost ten times more than the original estimate. We've gone from 70 million euros to 700 million euros. I'm not saying that to excuse overtaking. They can be motivated, but it is an element to be taken into account, even if politically, it must be agreed, knowing what it would cost at the end of the race, we may not make a decision at all. Sometimes it's a way to move issues forward. I already insisted earlier on intermodality. I would like to thank the Minister, who has already re-launched the various committees accompanying the ER. It is also important to reinvigorate synergy with regional transport companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u8	That's perfect, Mr. Flahaux!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u9	I'm always perfect!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u10	I don't judge on the merits, but on the form and the minutes, Mr. Flahaux!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u11	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we received an interesting explanation of an interesting document, namely the Court of Auditors' report on the GEN. We can highlight a lot of elements there. We can analyse and comment on this in the history of the last 15 years, but the most important question seems to me to be how we should proceed and how we can respond to the mobility needs of Brussels, which are very large, as in other cities in our country, with a good offer. I am thinking of an alternative offer for the car and a well-integrated offer by rail and public transport. What exactly should that look like, a lot of ink has flowed on that in the past. A lot of investments have already been made, but, of course, a number of investments are still needed. First of all, I would like to focus on the need analysis, on mobility needs. We can see that these needs are great every day. How these are efficiently completed is preferably part of a good study. The Court of Auditors also explicitly states that the intention of setting up the GEN construction was to look closely at the needs of public transport for commuters and others moving towards capital cities every five years, which seems to me to be a reasonable period. It is very important to comply with this recommendation, which is actually the basic agreement of 2003, and to carry out the new needs analysis effectively. Does this mean that we question certain infrastructure a priori? No. If one looks at it soberly and thinks of daily traffic jams, everyone will agree that additional rail infrastructure may be appropriate and that it will be necessary to get more trains to the capital, for which more railways are needed. However, it seems to me that an objective need analysis, including for the integrated supply, is certainly useful. A second aspect is integration. I referred yesterday to the basic starting point of the GEN, namely the modal shift from the car to the common transport. One of the elements is very important, in particular the integrated service provision. The GEN was designed in 2003 in this way. However, it has gradually become a railway project. Since then, there has been much less involvement of the other public transport companies, thus missing a number of opportunities. I also referred yesterday to rail projects by tram and metro of other public transport companies which were not yet on the agenda in 2000 or 2003 but are being carried out or planned today. They should also be included in a need analysis or in the functioning of the GEN. Even in cases such as the transfer between a SNCB's means of transport and a STIB's means of transport, further progress can be made. We can also look at the Senate's report on this matter without prejudice. The Senate has done interesting work on an integrated public transport plan, avoiding overlaps and enabling integrated ticketing. It's an interesting report to go over. Certainly for the GEN we could draw some lessons from the report, although we could also open it to the whole country, not just for the GEN zone. The questions are obvious. What steps have been taken in the course of the GEN project to take additional accompanying measures together with the other public transport companies? What measures will be taken and when will they be taken? The budgetary framework is, of course, also an important point. This raises the big question of when to clarify the multi-annual investment plan. What is the status of the investment cell? Will the investment plan allocate the remaining necessary budget to enable the GEN works to continue to be carried out in accordance with the agreements in the government agreement? Finally, I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors referred to the control of the GEN Fund, both internally and by the FOD. The Court of Auditors stated that this control is limited and that improvement would be desirable. Do you draw any conclusions from this, in your capacity as Minister and responsible for the FPS? Will you take steps to better monitor government supervision by the FPS on investments, here specifically for the GEN, but also in general, with SNCB and Infrabel? So far, my questions and a number of reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u12	Madam President, Minister, I am glad that, apart from the first two speakers, my fellow Members spoke about travellers and the inhabitants themselves. After all, for them the GEN is set up, so that all Belgians can track with our federal trains, from Ostend to Arlen or Liège. Yesterday we learned that the objectives of the GEN from the initial period differ from what is now on the table. It was also said from the beginning that the north-south link would be the bottleneck. Throughout the course of the GEN works and the changes, this has always been apparent. We also learned yesterday from the report that the timetable from the outset was unrealistic and that, as other speakers have said, there have been delays due to building permits that have been delayed as well as to the 60/40 rule. There was also very little political direction of the ECMM. In addition, too many politicians and administrations are likely to be involved, which means that no decisions will be taken. Furthermore, we have learned that about one billion will be needed to complete everything and that two billion has already been invested in something that is only half working. Mr Minister, you know as well as I do that what is now visible on some railway lines is really inexplicable to the people. In the station in my municipality, for example, a few years ago new quays were built with roofs and shelters, while the passengers who are to take the train to Brussels today are in neglected shelters. Even in Romania, there are no shelters like this anymore. My message is that people do not understand that they should wait in the rain for the train, while they would be dry where there are no tracks yet. That is the reality on the ground. Other parties talked a lot about the past and there were often blackbirds playing each other. That is your right, ladies and gentlemen, but we are not going along with it. What's done is done. Above all, we must learn from this and use it to implement future projects better, faster and at a lower cost. That is very important for our party. I am pleased that Mr Van den Bergh referred to the Senate report. I've got that here, too. It contains 25 recommendations. It pays to read it, both for the regional governments and for the federal government. Then a plan can be made to implement the recommendations one by one. The last recommendation is that each government reports to its own Parliament every year to demonstrate progress. This is crucial, both for the next projects and for the completion of the GEN project. It is clear to me that the state structures should ensure that mobility and implementation are accelerated. Today, however, we see that the state structures are causing delays. That's what the Court of Auditors' report says. Mr Minister, I am sure that working together is the message, and you are in favour of this rather than playing each other. I have a few specific questions. Who's supposed to call the ECMM together? Why has it never come together for ten years? You were not yet a minister, but perhaps you can find out from the administration or the secretariat who is responsible for this. Suppose you get the necessary budgets to complete the GEN, within what realistic time frame can that happen? What mechanisms will you use to make the Regions work together? I think this is really necessary. Finally, how will you mobilise Infrabel to complete the work within the agreed time and within the agreed budget? I believe that there should be a clear and close follow-up of the policy towards Infrabel in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the Court of Auditors has produced a good report. According to the Court of Auditors, the government has paid in sufficient funds. The previous governments have done the same. Nevertheless, in the report, politics is wiped out. That is not a bad thing in itself; it is a good thing that an independent institution such as the Court of Auditors does so. During all the years that questions have been asked about the GEN, we have, as other colleagues have pointed out, identified delays at federal and regional level, in the context of building permits and all kinds of procedures initiated, for example, by various municipal authorities or interest committees. It may also be questioned whether the various management committees, CEOs and directors pay sufficient attention to it. All these questions are legitimate. The central question is whether we want to achieve the GEN or not and, if so, what deadline? What are the new estimates of the resources needed for this? The Court of Auditors referred to 800 million, but added immediately that this will not be enough. In my view, one of the core tasks of the GEN Committee, both technically and politically, is to implement a concrete update of what is effectively needed and, on the basis of these needs, to draw up a realistic planning for the implementation of the project. This should be done on the basis of technical elements as well as on the basis of financial resources. Then we don't have to tell each other anything anymore. It is essential that this lesson be drawn so that we can get an actualisation of the needs, needs and implementation. Some fellow Members referred to the famous 60/40 key. I've done that many times in the past. Whether they do so from the majority or from the opposition, I do not think that matters much. At that time, I said that such matters should not be annoying. If one has to respect the 60/40 key at 100, it is 60 and 40. 80 is 48 and 32. One should not be a great mathematician in order to make this analysis, but the conclusion is that in Flanders there is a loss of 12 in this case and in Wallonia 8. In fact, there are two losing parties, a sort of priest's dilemma. We still have a lot of time to discuss how these losses are to be recovered, but the conclusion is that there are two losers. For example, we are looking at the necessary travel flows in Flanders or the capacity expansion in Wallonia, where we have to place other works of art and geography is different. In Flanders, additional investments are also made for the good reception of travellers. Then it turns out at some point that we need a sum of 100, but if that is reduced to 80, then there are only losers. In the discussion on the 60/40 rule, we must of course also look at the whole multi-annual investment plan. The question is whether we have gone too far in the savings that have been made? We need to look at what is effectively needed to meet the basic requirements. As the colleague of the MR said, the stations must not be large palaces. One has to look at what the traveler wants. I have a number of questions about the amount of a billion that has been announced a number of times and which we have now been able to read in the press. Questions were also asked to the Minister responsible in Flanders. Minister Weyts stated at the beginning of February that EUR 365 million will be earmarked for Flemish rail projects. However, I am reading and hearing here that, for example, it is said that this billion will go to the GEN or to other investments. I would therefore like to be clear about the way in which that billion will be spent. Is it true that these funds can also be used for other projects? How's that money gonna be bet? I fear that the announced billion has been used four times so that no one has any clarity as to where these resources can be used. The GEN has so far always been a story about infrastructure, while I think we should extend it to a story about supply. I note in the new transport plans that only one train per hour is expected at the station Simonis, coming from Aalst and surroundings. Knowing that there will be work on the renovation of tunnels next year, I should not be a mobility expert to ask if it is not appropriate to create a modal shift for travellers coming from Aalst and surroundings to Brussels. One could have those people parked in parking lots after which they could take the train. In other words, we need to strengthen the offer so that these people can come to work in Brussels. I kind of miss that. There has now been a debate on infrastructure, but we also need to pay attention to supply. I gave the example of the renovation of the tunnels. I would like to avoid reading angry press releases from a region or a group of interests within a few months, saying that our economy is losing a lot of money, even though we already know today that problems can arise. That is why I believe that we should try to work together to spare the traveller and to support our economy. I have another question about investment. How many additional parkings are possibly provided for the GEN? We want a modal shift and then the question arises as to what additional measures have been taken. There is also a lack of clarity with regard to the stations. Has a decision been made on the Machelen station? And what happens to Mechelen's station? I would like to give these two examples, with just one letter of difference, as subjects that I believe should be further involved in this debate, which certainly should not be just about infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u14	Madam President, Minister, yesterday another international ranking came to us. You've read about it. As I understand it, you were in Lyon a few days ago. This international ranking by a private firm considers Brussels to be the eighth most bottled city in the world. We are not yet at the same stage as Mexico or Jakarta, but we tend to get closer to it. This ranking follows a whole series of others. As we know, all this is bad for the environment, for the health of the inhabitants, for the mental health of people caught in traffic jams. Even the FEB, which does not yet officially campaign within Ecolo, estimates the additional cost to the community of these traffic jams, of this immobilime, at EUR 8 billion. In this committee, we all have an interest in seeing this immobility overcome; and an interest in the RER, which is still the backbone of the metropolitan area around Brussels. Now we have been able to make a diagnosis of the problems that this project is experiencing. I would like to pay this tribute to Mrs Galant. Thanks to her, we have an audit, which I am delighted about. Mrs Galant, about a year ago, announced the end of the ER. It was the funeral of the RER, for lack of four lanes. This led to a revolt of the Walloon Brabant MR mayors in particular. I remember with emotion these inflamed demonstrations. It was a first for them. Still, it was important. That had particularly affected me. It must be remembered that if the minister had been carried away in this movement, it was because Infrabel had found that there was no more money in the RER Fund. Moreover, the Court of Auditors demonstrates this to us. For 2015-2016: zero, zero. Following this somewhat untimely communication from Minister Galant, following numerous inquiries and discussions on this subject, we decided to follow my proposal to request an audit from the Court of Auditors. This report is of good quality. I think we all recognize that. This allows everyone to better understand a number of perverse mechanisms. I'll try to avoid rumors and rejections of elevator or zwarte Piet. Our colleague is right. It is useful to know the past, but I hope it is to try to avoid replicating the effects. In the next ten minutes, Madam President, I will simply try to see whether this summary seems interesting for the future and how we should proceed. I think the Court of Auditors has given us the ability to put figures on things. The Court of Auditors itself speaks to us of 800 million, with caution, but suggests that it will probably take a little more. I've heard you say that would be the case, minister. But at least we have this idea, and we know what about the RER Fund, which is not a budgetary fund, but an account that is part of the SNCB. That's the result of the story. So we know that delays can be objectively detected by various factors that we are going to correct; I hope so. That's the least I can do. The first element is a clear lack of political leadership. Minister, I think you're not wrong when you tell us that there's not just the federal government. This could obviously be considered a way to steal from you in relation to your responsibilities, but not. The excellent report of the Senate, Messrs. Vandenput and Van den Bergh have spoken about this, because the RER will only succeed if the Regions, all partners and regional transport companies are involved. Pilotage must be the responsibility of all the regions and must be aimed at the whole transport connection in the RER zone, because tomorrow will come the problems of the common mark-up, the ticketing, the whole of the tariffs and all that makes the journey by public transport unique in the metropolitan area around Brussels. Pilotage was revived thanks to last year's controversy, if I may say so. We have finally revived what should have been a reality and which has not been; the Court of Auditors has shown this to us. The second element is delays, which are largely due to licensing and recourse issues. This is a real problem. I will come back to that at the time of the proposals. Moreover, the annual application of the 60/40 key – and I am not saying it, it is the Court of Auditors – is also a problem. I'm not taking over the elements here. Undoubtedly, the discontinuity between what is being done in one Region and not in the other causes further inconvenience. I come from the Walloon Brabant, I can tell you that we are the victims of the 60/40 key applied annually. This system is a perverse system from the point of view of the uniqueness of the progression in the implementation of the ER. I'd like one day to dig this exception to the 60/40 key. It doesn't seem very 60/40 to me, contrary to what I heard yesterday. The Court of Auditors said that what was removed from key 60/40 was 60/40. Even though I calculate and recalculate, I have even applied special methods, I do not find 60/40 in this. Or it's very complicated to understand. We have seen that under this government, we have also lost time. That is what the Court of Auditors says. The fact that Infrabel had to find out that there was nothing in 2015 and 2016 to complete the RER Fund meant that Infrabel – who communicated it to the minister who didn't realize she was giving bad news – said: "We don't do anything anymore." It became the stop of the RER. One day we noticed that we were stopping the ER. This is because the 2013-2025 IPP was repealed and the next one was not there yet. We are not in Rome where when a pope dies, he is almost immediately replaced. With PPI, it's more complicated. We didn't see the white smoke. The absence of PPI – I'm not just criminalizing this government – has meant that we have lost two years in implementing the RER. But, more seriously, the most illuminating demonstration of the problem we are experiencing with the RER, in the fact that for years money has been invested which does not serve mobility in any way, is the map drawn by the Court of Auditors on the comparison of the supply at the main stations during peak hours. We won almost nothing. We have fallen by about ten years in terms of the supply in the ER zone. In other words, all this money spent on work related to the ER reduced the train's offer in the ER zone. It's a height! If I go to the future, we now have a core document that is indisputable. The most important elements relate first to funding. Mr Minister, the financing plan contains, I imagine, three elements: the balance of the RER Fund, the Walloon pre-financing, which I hope is still current, and what you call the virtuous loan. He's so virtuous that we can't see him. This is the problem of virtue: it is almost inaccessible. Even the Court of Auditors did not have access to it. This is too virtuous for the Court of Auditors. I hope you're going to reveal the virtue a little bit. It's tempting, but it's also important. Will it be Infrabel? Will the SNCB host this virtuous loan? Europe is watching us. Let's not talk too loud! We see that this is a fundamental issue. You have come forward and you have no right to make a mistake about it. The second element is piloting. I hope that from the elements that have been highlighted on the mistakes of the past, there will be a real consideration, not only of the federal – I think you are – but also of the Regions and, behind that, the regional transport companies, which must also be involved. We can't just get people together for this ride. We need a follow-up, and a report. We need to be able to track the element, and we will be doing so here in this committee. Third element: permits. Minister, we need something new in the area of permits. I'm from Nivelles, a very important city. I am not content with the fact that I am told that on line 124, this will be done at the earliest in 2030 or 2032. That's not right! This will require the use of the Regions, and whether they cannot speed up procedures, for issues of public interest. This is a fundamental issue; we cannot resolve to immobility. I conclude with the work in sections. This is obviously a very important idea. It should not be that in the coming years, during which the RSP will be constantly postponing years that appear very far away, the offer will not be increased. This issue of improving the supply available now, and therefore the work in sections, needs to be highlighted. This is an immediate issue for today's commuters who are caught in the traffic jams I talked about at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat the history of this case very well designed by the Court of Auditors. There's no point in reminding us of malfunctions. We must move forward, look ahead and bring concrete solutions to people. The needs are enormous and the RER project was and remains an ambitious solution that must be successfully implemented. The Court of Auditors makes it clear in its report that not only is there a problem with the original framework, the objectives and the means of achieving them, but also, throughout the whole development of the case, there has been a proliferation of malfunctions. Today's considerable delays in funding are recurrent and are now estimated at EUR 800 million. At this point, it might be interesting to get up to speed to rethink the whole file. Indeed, on several occasions, it is understood that SNCB considered this project to be secondary. This is, in any case, reflected in the Court of Auditors' analysis. There is a real feeling that this issue is being relegated to the main concerns, such as a secondary mission among those that SNCB has agreed to. In the Court of Auditors' report, it is said that the RER is not a "dedicated" network. These are the same infrastructure as for the rest of the network. The same trains (IC, S, P, L, etc.) are used.). The Court of Auditors notes a lack of follow-up in the deployment of the offer. The study is being mistreated. The Court of Auditors refers to the need to acquire new equipment suitable for urban use. I will take this opportunity to make a proposal as we analyse the past and the situation is in stand by. Is this not an opportunity to review the place of this file in SNCB's missions? By this I mean that it would be interesting to envisage a fully autonomous cell that would work on the ER file and to which specific missions would be assigned, with specific objectives at the level of timings in the short, medium and long term. Planning should be rigorous with regular returns and specific budget lines. In this respect, they should not be imagined through a 60/40 distribution key, as is the practice of the SNCB-Infrabel group. A fund should be dedicated to the RER, as was planned from the outset, since it is a central file at the geographical level. As this project concerns all regions, with global interregional funding and without paralysis from the 60/40 key, it could be imagined that the project would make better progress. The record is too unsatisfactory. A reorientation of the working method, a reorganisation of the whole project could be amply justified. Perhaps this is the time to show some sense, some ambition and perhaps some political courage to completely reorient this project, which is at the heart of the country and blocks a lot of things. It is important to get out of this Community logic since the dossier is transregional. Minister, how do you plan to finalize this RSP? What will you do to achieve this? In what time frame? What do you think about setting up this autonomous, refinanced unit, with specific objectives and, above all, a budget entirely outside this key, which can be used as a priority where it is necessary for the project to move forward regularly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u16	For your good information, the sixth reform of the state created in 2014 a specific RER cell within the SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u17	Minister, the findings are here. We were supposed to have an RER in 2012, in the worst case, and here we are in 2017! It's time! It's time to take charge of this case! Your predecessors have failed. Will you be the Saviour of the RER? We'd like to believe it. In 2050, we should not have a new report from the Court of Auditors which finds that this or that has happened, that Minister Bellot has done this or that which explains the delay. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u18	Indeed, it may be a PTB minister who will solve the problem! Minister, when will the RSP be completed? According to the Court of Auditors' report, the conditions for the deadlines announced today are not met, which is obviously a problem. The Court of Auditors has noted a central problem. Is there a pilot on the train? Obviously, there were no pilots or so too many pilots who didn't know who the pilot was. How, Minister, do you intend to solve this problem? Will you be this pilot or will a specific body take on this role? How can the multiplicity of partial pilots continue to undermine the RER? I'm just going to fund the ER. We can still see some pretty frightening things. As early as 2002, it was known that the planned budget was insufficient. Let us look at the present and the future. How much remains in the RSP Fund as of December 31, 2016, Minister? The Court of Auditors writes that the balance will be known in mid-February, and we are 22. What are Infrabel's most recent estimates of the means needed to complete the planned work? What answer do you give to the Court of Auditors, which estimates that 800 million would be an underestimation of needs? Now, let's talk about your virtuous billion, minister. How do you intend to get him out of here? What is the assembly, what is the distribution between companies? And most importantly, since we're talking about the RER, how many millions of this billion will come back to him? Figures are circulating: 233 million, 650 million but for the whole country... Can you tell us what is happening? This billion doesn't seem to fit with what Infrabel announces. How do you explain this shift? Again on funding, I would like to address the impact of the 60-40 allocation key, which is clearly a problem. This key concerns all investments. We discussed security, number one of the investments. We have had problems with investments that are sometimes significant in railway stations. But the central question on this key is: should we not review it and consider, as in the case of the TGV, that we are dealing with exceptional investments which justify another key for distribution? Otherwise, obviously, we won't get away with it, unless you have a miracle solution that would make it possible not to see that key again. Unless you find a miracle solution without this distribution key. Should we stress the role of your predecessor, particularly with regard to the suspension in 2015 of the 2013 – 2025 PPI which caused the work to stop? I ask my question for the present and the future. On Monday, the 2017–2020 IPP was approved by Infrabel's Board of Directors. From what I heard, it wouldn't contain anything on the ER. Can you tell us what's going on? Another problem is that today the RER Fund is being used to maintain works already carried out or construction sites at a standstill. How are you going to solve this problem? On the rail offer of the RER, Minister, there are still some interesting aspects. 28% of stations have a lower offer than the 2012 offer in rush hours in the morning! Only 22% offer a higher offer. The rest has not changed. In the end, we end up with a lower offer than we had five years ago! That's quite challenging, Minister! How do you explain that the study provided for in the 2003 Convention was discussed in the Executive Committee of the Ministers of Mobility only in 2012? At present, there is no guarantee that the development of the RER, as planned by the railway companies, will meet the mobility needs. Do you intend to carry out a study, in accordance with this 2003 convention, to finally analyse mobility needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u19	Colleagues, in accordance with the mandate entrusted to it by the House on 17 March, the Court submitted its report on the implementation and funding of the RSP. Before going into the content of the report, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for the professional work it has done. Thanks to this report, we will not repeat the mistakes of the past in the future. For two reasons, I do not wish to rewrite the story. First because the history of the past is not happy, and above all because the new history must be different from the past. In this context, I would like to highlight some of the points taken up by the Court of Auditors in its report, namely those which demonstrate substantial shortcomings in the management of this dossier, which could be described as poor public governance. First, the Court of Auditors underlines the time elapsed between the adoption of the RER Convention on 4 April 2003 and its entry into force three years later. A period far too long which, from the outset, put the 2003 Convention in full swing. Indeed, how to end in 2012 when we had just lost almost three and a half years? Article 30 of the Convention states that the RER offer must be operational on at least two radial relationships by 31 December 2005. The initial implementation forecasts were largely underestimated and lapsed even before the Convention entered into force. However, it was not updated at the time. Secondly, the Court of Auditors' report shows that the initial estimates of the 2003 agreement were unrealistic, both in terms of deadlines and budgets. These shortcomings have largely been a political responsibility since the start of the project. Indeed, the State has not matched the objectives it has set and the means to achieve them. From the point of view of the time frame for completion of the work, it was unrealistic and illusory to think in 2002 that all RER work would be carried out within ten years. It was simply not feasible. I refer you to some of the interventions of the time. There are three causes of delays in the work of the RER Fund: - appeal procedures, which account for between 18 and 60 % of delays; - the increased complexity of the work; - the unavailability of financial resources, this third remark for lines 124 and 161. At the time of the submission of the 2009 report, the public authorities, aware of the situation, adopted a new scenario, namely for 2015 a RER offer not complete, I insist, but intermediate, and a complete offer for 2020. The Executive Committee of the Mobility Ministers met for the first time in May 2012 since the entry into force of the 2003 Agreement. Thus, a period of almost ten years had elapsed, while at least one meeting per year had been a reasonable period of time. The ECMM then decides, on the one hand, to extend the deadline for the completion of intermediate phases in 2018, three more years and, on the other hand, to achieve the full RER offer as defined in the 2003 Convention as soon as possible within the framework of the 2013-2025 PPI, ideally for 2020. Again, this decision reflects a striking lack of realism. In fact, given the planning of Infrabel's work and SNCB's analysis, the full implementation of interim scenarios, set by the 2012 ECMM at the latest in 2018, was not possible until 2022. From a budgetary point of view, this decision to phase out the 2012 ECMM was not followed in the 2013-2025 IPP. This was limited to the completion of the RER infrastructure work foreseen in the 2001-2012 IPP and the implementation of the 2015 interim offer for 2025. I therefore stress that the 2013-2025 IPP did not take up the necessary resources for the full implementation of the ER. Accusing this government for having withdrawn resources while these resources were not even provided for in the 2013-2025 plan is still at the limit of the correction! Moreover, with regard to the integration of the GEN offer, today renamed the S offer, the GEN agreement was approved despite the many reservations expressed from the outset. In 2000, for example, SNCB pointed out the insufficient capacity of the north-south link to cope with the planned increase in supply during peaks. This meant that alternative railway installations, such as the future Schumann-Josaphat tunnel, were to be used, but they would not be built until many years later. For example, this tunnel was not opened until April 2016 for the traffic of the trains. According to the Court of Auditors, it was possible, at the end of 2009, to see three things. Firstly, the RER offer provided for in the 2003 Convention was not feasible, as the objectives set did not take into account all the technical constraints of the rail network. Secondly, the intermediate RER offer 2015 was, of course, more realistic but conditional on the completion of work, the delivery of equipment and the setting up of new schedules. Thirdly, the RER offer also had its limits and it was not certain that it was compatible with other rail services outside the RER zone. In view of the lack of a five-year update of the study, a reflection should be carried out in the head of the stakeholders to the convention 2003 of SNCB and Infrabel. The aim is to assess the current relevance of the rail supply objectives in the ER zone and to link the objectives and means with a new needs analysis that takes account of the offer of all public carriers. At present, it should be remembered that the deadlines are also subject to three conditions: the approval of the multi-annual investment plan, the availability of budgets according to the needs and the delivery of the destroyed licences for line 124 in the Flemish and Brussels Region within three years and without appeal. From a cost point of view, the Court considers that the ER work has always been undervalued. I would like to recall that the current balance of the fund will not be sufficient to cover the work to close the RER file. Additional work was added during the development of the project. The report reveals a cost increase of 27.2% between 2001 and 2016, or $673 million, which is broken down as follows: $278 million as a result of the increase resulting from the permit – so the requirements imposed by the Regions to obtain the permits have resulted in such an increase – an increase of $137 million related to the revision of some estimates (i.e., the file had been poorly estimated from the outset) and another resulting from the new requirements to be met by Infrabel as a result of the longer construction period. For the latter point, by natural mechanism of indexation of construction prices, the costs for the balance then go up. The granting of the authorisation by the municipalities and the regions was in some cases linked to the carrying out of additional works, such as access to the stations, the extension of parking spaces near the stations and the stops or the improvement of access for persons with reduced mobility, thanks to the construction of lifts. In addition, delays in the planning were covered by the RER Fund. At present, the RER Fund no longer funds exclusively an extension of the capacity of the railway network, which is the very essence of the project, but also the maintenance of the infrastructure linked to the RER and the maintenance and safeguarding of the waiting sites which are still very open. Thirdly, according to the Court of Auditors, the definition of the RER objectives was not based on a detailed and up-to-date analysis of mobility needs. I must reiterate that Article 13 of the 2003 Agreement requires that an examination of the relocation needs should be initiated within six months of its entry into force and the result should be delivered no later than 18 months later. This so-called "Article 13 study' was to be available by 11 September 2006. The study would also be carried out every five years in order to adapt and evolve the reference track offer. However, the Court of Auditors finds that the implementation of this Article has not been satisfactory. Indeed, the study was carried out only once again in 2009, more than five years after the Convention entered into force and more than seven years after the Cooperation Agreement. It was not subsequently updated. Fourthly, the Court of Auditors points to many shortcomings in the pilotage of the RER and the word is weak. Before listing them, I would like to point out that under Article 14 of the 2003 Convention, the overall offer of the ER zone consists of the services of the four public transport companies. The RER is not a train offer but an integrated offer in the suburban area of Brussels and surrounding area. It is therefore a service of the four public transport companies in the course of their respective missions on rail and road relations. The RER network consists of fast, cross-sectional, rail and road links. It is therefore not only a railway project but a general mobility project within a radius of 30 km around Brussels, a mobility which is part of a desire to use the railways as the backbone of the mobility chain and the structuring axis of public transport. Indeed, wherever the train stops, it is important for customers to have a quality terminal transport solution, particularly via regional public transport companies. To this end, consultation with the Regions, regional public transport companies and local authorities must be permanent in order to facilitate all modes of travel. In this context, I aim to develop a broader consultation of the interfederal actors on mobility. The lack of consultation raised by the Court of Auditors has, therefore, placed a great deal of pressure on me. Indeed, the ECMM had not met since 8 May 2012. Its mission is to ensure coordination and give political impetus to the issue. There was no impetus, since there was no political meeting. Every society could go as it wanted, wherever it wanted and without a call to order or without a guide, at least. The ECMM was reactivated by Ms Galant on 26 February 2016. Since taking office, it has met three times: June 10, September 30 and November 8, 2016. It has met more in a few months than in the last 15 years. The same applies to the Steering Committee. Regular monitoring was carried out until the final report was submitted in June 2009. After that date, seven meetings were held. The 2003 Convention provided for 42. This is a more political than an operational responsibility. Each person who led this Committee is a person close to the ministers, who were responsible for doing so. Some questions addressed to me are advised by persons who, for six years, have been the head of this Steering Committee. I would like to consult the minutes of these few meetings to see what they were able to do at the time. The same applies to the operational group to coordinate the activities of the four public transport companies. Although decided in 2003, it was only formally established in 2008. It has met little and no public transport operating plan integrating the RER has been carried out since 2003. It ceased operations at the end of 2012. He did not play his part in a full and continuous manner. The RER Steering Committee on the Board of Directors of SNCB is composed of the CEO, the two federal directors and the three regional directors. An ER service was created within SNCB by the Act of 19 April 2014 to improve the internal governance of SNCB. The absence of a meeting of the ECMM and the Steering Committee in a crucial period of the RER deprived the SNCB and Infrabel of a decision framework, which certainly affected coordination with the regional transport companies and made the project not at all integrated at all, the involvement of the Regions and the control by the administrations of the proposals made, and even of the actions to be undertaken. The Court of Auditors concludes that there has been a cruel lack of governance of the Ministers for Mobility for all these years. How, in this case, can we establish a coherent vision of the provision of mobility for citizens? That's the question you're asking me. As soon as I took office, I decided to take this case back. Planning was established, investment was decided, and all the consultative bodies that had not been convened for years were reconvened. For example, there have already been four meetings from the Executive Committee of the Mobility Ministers, including in the context of the preparation of the Transport Plan 2017. There was also the discussion of the so-called Angelic studies, and of the organisation of the working group on the development of the mobility vision. Angelic is offering S not only around Brussels but also four large cities, two Flemish and two Walloons. I have committed myself to intensifying the meetings of the ECMM - we have one in the near future - and in doing so to ensure the promotion of coherent and innovative policies between the different levels of power. The Steering Committee met on 18 May 2016. In view of the current situation, I did not find it appropriate to set a new meeting until the decisions on funding were taken. On the other hand, as the dossier is evolving, I will convene this Committee in the coming weeks to take stock of the dossier and to set a meeting schedule at the pace necessary to restart this dossier and put it back on track. It will now meet regularly to support the project and ensure that the timing and amounts invested are respected. In addition, I would like to reconvene the operational group, which ceased its activities in 2012. Its mission is to coordinate the transport supply between SNCB and the three public transport companies concerned and thus to carry out the integrated RER operating scheme. According to the Court of Auditors, there is no guarantee to date that the development of the GEN, as envisaged by the railway undertakings, will properly meet mobility needs. However, SNCB and Infrabel have produced a new study of the suburban rail supply and the infrastructure work required for faster implementation of the S offer. You told me that fewer trains were operating in June 2016 than in 2002. In the meantime, in December last year, we added seventy-two trains to the RER area. In addition, the 2017 transport offer will be added again. In addition, a new planning for the projects was adopted at the ECCM meeting on 10 June 2016. The GEN works will now be carried out by section rather than by line. It will be important to continue the implementation of the GEN works in accordance with a pragmatic method for capacity expansion. This method will be based on an optimized use of the infrastructure already built and of the available resources. The ultimate objective is that there should be a significant improvement in supply as soon as possible without having to wait for the end of all works. I can tell you that in June, I pointed out to the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility that I now wanted to work on a section rather than a line. On the basis of a simple estimate, working two or three hours with planning colleagues from major construction sites and being myself an engineer, I can assure you that if this method had been followed from the start, the Brussels-Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve line would probably be completed today and a third of line 124. According to Infrabel, the planning includes: 1. the full operation of the four tracks on line 50A for December 2021; 2. the introduction of four partial lanes and the increase of supply on lines 124 (Nivels) and 161 (Louvain-la-Neuve) for 2024. Specifically, for line 161 (Louvain-la-Neuve), it is planned to have a train every quarter of an hour. All stations from Louvain-la-Neuve to Brussels will be served by four trains in peak hours, unlike two today. The offer will be doubled without adding new trains between Ottignies and Brussels. In addition, it is also planned to have an additional IC train. We could go from five to six in rush hours. I come back to the proposal to work per section. The principle of the section is exactly like a carpet. When, in a large organization, you have to put on a carpet, you roll out the carpet and, when you turn around, the carpet is well put. We're doing the same thing for highways. We do the same for the main lines of TGV in France. That's how it is. What line are we going to start with? What section are we going to start with? What is the proposal? What is happening today on line 161? It's of course Watermael-Bakenbos. Why? Because we know that the Nord-Midi Junction is the one that poses a problem. And, therefore, what we are going to do with Watermael-Bakenbos will of course be an additional offer for all the people who are south of Watermael-Bakenbos but it will also be the train shop that will enter Brussels in the Nord-Midi Junction and we hope that with the ATO (Automatic Train Operation) technology, we can actually reduce the distance between two trains. That's why we want to go that way, unless someone shows me something else. For the customer offer on the Nivelles line, you still need permits. In this case, it is planned to have an S train every half hour. All stations from Nivelles to Brussels-Midi will therefore be served by two trains per hour, unlike one today. In planning the execution of the construction sites on lines 161 and 124, we will carry out the work according to a logic based on increasing the quality of the additional supply. We will start with the sections where the offer is the most important, knowing that there are already sections on 124 where we left for years. Because, between the time a file is technically studied, the permits have been broken and the time when all procedures are exhausted - without recourse, it takes three years - it still takes six to eight years to complete work. I confirm the complete four-track implementation, but it is, of course, postponed until the end of the 2020s, at the beginning of 2030. As a former parliamentarian but also as an engineer who knows the constraints of execution, I am not going to promise you something that does not fit my vision of things. That would be contrary to my political ethic as much as to my own conviction. There's no need to go and promise things in five years' time when it won't be done. If technicians have the ability and competence to show me that it is possible to go faster, they can contact 1 rue Ernest Blerot in 1070 Brussels. As far as the virtuous billion is concerned, a word of explanation. We asked SNCB and Infrabel, on the basis of the financial profile and the decisions we made in June on the allocation of allocations, to draw up their business contracts, their investment plans and the management contract model respectively. For SNCB, things are very advanced. The transport plan is about to be finalized, subject to infrastructure provision by Infrabel. At the latter, things have been done. We have given him an indication that his role is twofold: the maintenance of capacity and safety, essential materials for which Infrabel's investments are more important than for SNCB, particularly in terms of safety. A first exercise took place on the board of directors in December and last Monday. On that day, Infrabel's CA commissioned management to come to me to finalize its plan on this basis, as well as on the second part of which they ignore the details of the virtuous billion but on the investment plan of capacity increase. Make the separation between Infrabel's current occupation of maintaining capacity and ensuring security, and increasing capacity. What does the latter understand? The aim is to complete the RER in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. I'm saying all three. It is also to meet the priorities of the Regions, which we consult through the investment unit, and which we consult at the level of the ECMM. I'll give you the details. As regards the financing of the RER project, I had and undertook to provide the necessary funds for these mobility investments, in particular to implement the points set out in the 2003 Convention and the Cooperation Agreement of March 2002. The Walloon Region expressed its readiness to convert the pre-financing of the Gosselies airport link and the remainder of the pre-financing of the Louvain-la-Neuve car park, in order to pre-finance the work of the RER. It is very technical and it is outside 40/60, because they are projects already implemented in balance 40/60, especially in Flanders. The key had to be respected, and work had been undertaken which was very far from the RER on the Walloon side - I am thinking in particular of large investments which I have always contested, in this case the large stations. Key 40/60, which is an annual key, did not make it possible to use these means, which were intended for the ER, because, in order to meet the key, large projects were made that consumed the 40% destined for Wallonia. So what happened on the RER network? We fell into the 80/20 key. In the section we were supposed to do, we couldn't ignore security. Maybe it's 50/50 on some lines. Other files could not be ignored, and thus the adjustment variable, which was the capacity extension of the RSP, met the 80/20 key. In fact, compliance with the 60/40 key was monitored and verified annually. As a federal minister, as part of respect for loyalty, I had to do so. We can challenge that key. It was established in 2002. The previous government, Mrs. Lalieux, renewed it. They tried to open the chapter, and it was very, very quickly closed. As a result, the 60/40 key has gone back for years since 2010. Since 2010, it's the 60/40 key that goes back for a period. These funds will be used to finance works with a direct impact on mobility and to increase the attractiveness of the train, not only through the completion of the works carried out. These funds are not intended to compensate for operational losses or a lack of efficiency, given the productivity increase measures that both companies have recently taken in this respect. The Government remains committed to stabilizing the historic debt of the railways. This will does not exclude debt, given the compliance with the pre-financing provided for in the 2003 Agreement and not yet implemented. These are things of the past. The rules of the cooperation agreement of 11 October 2001 renewed by the previous government on the calculation of the regional key will continue to be applied. They have been confirmed by this government. Several important steps in implementing the suburban offer were taken at the end of 2015 and in 2016. Indeed, the S offer was launched in December 2015 and the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel was opened in April 2016. As I told you, in December 2016, 72 trains were added around and in Brussels. This allows for an important level of service to the East Belt, Line 26 and the European neighbourhood. In December 2016, the suburban offer was supplemented by the new Arcades station in the town of Watermael-Boitsfort and the strengthening of the East belt in off-peak hours and weekend services, for the first time. Located on line 26, Arcades will be served every hour on the S7 Hal-Delta-Merode-Vilvoorde-Malines relationship. Moreover, the European quarter will also be served by a direct connection to Brussels Airport Zaventem during the weekend. An IC train (IC27) will connect the Brussels airport to the Brussels-Schuman station from Eigenbramel every hour. This connection will be extended to Leuven. The S1 link Nivelles-Brussels-Antwerp will also be insured at half-hour between Nivelles and Brussels during the off-peak hours, between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. I stress that Article 3 of the first chapter of the Convention of 4 April 2003 defining the objective of the RER – promoting the modal shift of cars and public transport and increasing their market share in the RER offer – concerns not only the train but all regional and federal public transport. In Article 4, the governments (federal, Walloon, Brussels and Flemish) undertook in particular to strengthen their respective offers; to implement the means necessary to ensure coordinated common transport between them and with other means of travel, mainly non-motorised, to make them attractive in relation to the individual use of the car; to take the necessary measures to encourage motorists to use public and non-motorized transport. What about today? Compliance with these commitments has just been assessed for the federal level. But what assessment should be made of the regions' compliance with these commitments? I don't know. The Steering Committee has never met on these matters. The action I have been taking through the ECMM since I took office is aimed at strengthening coordination between the regions and the federal government. My work within the federal government to choose the best funding formula is to complete the commitments made years ago under the RSP agreement to complete the RSP. But I would also like the Regions to take their responsibilities and also meet the objectives of the 2003 Convention at their level, through the development of a consistent and consistent offer in addition to the RER offer. Without this supplement, we will have made half the way, but the RER offer will not be complete. I would like to come back with you to a few points. In the 2003 Convention, the RER is the network structuring the overall supply of the four public transport companies. In the context of the respective missions, these companies shall coordinate their activities within the operational group, in particular with regard to the knowledge of customer needs; the formulation of opinions to optimise the offer; the study of a compatible ticketing system and principles of tariff harmonisation as part of the general initiatives for harmonising tariffs for public transit companies; the improvement of hourly correspondence and integrated public information. That is why we have involved the Regions in the development of our transportation plans. It may be necessary for SNCB to have a look at the transport plans of regional companies in the area. I am continuing this enumeration with one last point, the layout of stations, stops, connecting points and parking spaces. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to review the 2002 Cooperation Agreement and the 2003 Convention. Everything is written, but what has been done with these documents, except to allow SNCB to deal with this convention alone, whereas the responsibility of the public authorities was to create all the necessary bodies for consultation? As far as the billion is concerned, you know that in July the Prime Minister gathered his ministers before the big holidays, reminding them of certain elements and setting priorities. These included the National Public Investment Pact. Three or four thoughts on this subject. It didn't fall into the ears of a deaf man, and mine are big, it's an advantage! First of all, we knew we had to finish this case. Then what does the Plan Bureau say? He said that, in a number of sectors, including mobility, when problems of road congestion are solved, there are returns. Mr Cheron has reminded us of our place in the ranking, even if it is not glorious for us, but it is so. The OECD considers that the additional cost of immobility in Belgium amounts to about 1.5% of GDP. A professor from the University of Ghent, Sven Maerivoet, places this amount between 300,000 and 600,000 euros per day at a minimum. Here, just for the hinterland of Brussels, this amounts to between EUR 300 and 500 million per year, depending on whether external costs are taken into account or not. As a result of different analyses, following the observation for public finances – here, it's very important – that when you invest 100 in these subjects in the year you do the work, within two years you have a return of 50 through different channels, perhaps indirect. This does not fall into the caisses of SNCB. This is the first observation. Secondly, according to the studies carried out by these professors and academics, we know that if we manage to reduce the saturation of the road network and the length of the traffic jams around Brussels and the big cities by 30% – you will tell me that we must be more ambitious, but that is – we reduce the burden for the citizens, who are the victims of the problem of saturation, but also for the companies. These have additional burdens due to the additional costs associated with the caps. If we do a simple calculation, and I think I have already explained it to you, we can recover relatively quickly but very indirectly, more or less 30 to 35 million euros for a billion invested, if we reduce the saturation of the road network by 30%, by the mechanical effect at the tax level. I presented this reasoning to the government, which agreed with the idea of a billion additional investment. What position should we assign it to? There are several methods. Either we increase corporate debt (SNCB and Infrabel). This is not our choice, especially for technical reasons and consistency with the policy statement. A financial vehicle, called the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), can also be used, as has been done for many other public rail investments. Another possibility is a state loan. At the present time, it will be either a state loan or a loan in a VPS, but in a gradual and gradual manner, depending on the need for payment of invoices from the two companies concerned. In other words, we will no longer be a fund. This will not only make it possible to complete the RER – Flanders-Brussels-Wallonia – but also to respond to a number of regional requests for public investment. It is therefore gradually that the means will be borrowed, either by SPV or by the State. We await the final opinions of the ICN (Institute of National Accounts) and the Debt Agency, but it is this mechanism that will be used, because it has the advantage of avoiding the consolidation that would have taken place if the loan had been taken via Infrabel. I'm sorry, it's very technical, but I think many of you are familiar with the consolidation mechanisms. To finish the RER, it takes a billion and fifty million. Why this amount when the Court of Auditors quotes 800 million? I'm not going to tell you that we need 800 million if we need more money. First, we need to take a margin from estimates a year or two ago. Secondly, I also want to protect projects against hazards such as those we have known, but more so in such a margin. Today's priority is track and track accessibility, and not what goes too far from the rail industry. The permits have been issued, we will no longer have any surprises to Louvain-la-Neuve, but to Nivelles, we must no longer load the boat with local contingencies. The job of rail is to transport, it is mobility. I'm thinking about citizens, about mobility. I'm thinking less about the layout of the territory, beautiful squares or beautiful roundabouts that would be fun. Let's be clear! Both companies are starting to integrate these data. There is no longer a question of building stations whose architecture exceeds the real needs. A station must be clean, functional, well-appointed and accessible to persons with reduced mobility. But there's no need to do more. Of the 50 billion, 516 million are for Wallonia, 75 million for Flanders and 458 million for neutral areas. What are these neutral areas? In the project, when routes had to be laid on Brussels territory or Flemish territory to access Walloon areas, on lines 124 or 161, it was expenditure which had been neutralised: it was not attributed to Flanders or Wallonia. This discussion was closed in 2002-2003. For example, Bakenbos-Watermael, Dilbeek, the Brussels Region are neutral areas. Remember, the needs are 516, 75, 458. The total is one billion 50 million. We still have the pre-financing of the Walloon Region of 257 million already charged in Rule 60/40. In the RER Fund, $228 million remains at 31 December 2015. We know that there will be less on December 31, 2016, but it's a balance game. What will be done with this money during 2016, is as much as it will not have to be done again. When we read this table, we have one billion and fifty million for the RER, 228 million from the RER Fund, 257 million from pre-financing, etc., to which the billion of so-called "virtuous" investment is added. The total amount is $1,485 million. Do you follow the reasoning? From this amount, one billion and fifty million must be deducted, representing the needs of the RSP. Submit these amounts to key 60/40 by subtracting what is not in the key. Apart from RER, the additional investment capacity in the Walloon Region will therefore be 54 million in capacity extension, 367 million in the Flemish Region and 15 million in the neutral zone (Brussels). What will be done, for example, with these sums? Increase the wharfs, develop the surroundings of Brussels stations, etc. This sum of 1 485 million, compared to the 60/40 allocation key, will be subject to a special agreement signed so that it will no longer be bound by an annual rule but rather by a multi-annual one. To avoid delays, with the 60/40 key being respected, the annual determination will be untied. Every two or three years, the cursor will be reset to zero. It's important to know that this 60/40 key played tricks on both sides. Work in Flanders was slowed down because Wallonia could not consume its 40s and construction sites in Wallonia were slowed down because Flanders did not use its resources. Now I will review the various issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u20	Minister, you do not have to answer all the questions that have been formally introduced on a point-by-point basis. There will be replicas and small additional questions. We agreed yesterday in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u21	If there is one element on which parliamentarians feel I have not answered, they can rest the question. I think I've gone through the points.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u22	You gave us a complex calculation on the billion. Can you communicate your chart to the secretariat?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u23	I'll send it to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u24	All right. I will send it to all colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u25	Madam President, Minister, most of my questions have been answered in your detailed answer. Let me repeat what I remember clearly from your reply. The multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025, drawn up by Minister Magnette, did not provide the necessary resources for the realisation of the GEN. I asked that question yesterday at the Court of Auditors. You replied the same thing. So it's not the fault of this government. You also replied very clearly that the 60/40 key was respected. So that 80/20 isn't just pulling through as a denial of the 60/40. That 60/40 is clearly respected. You also said very clearly that the consultation with the regions and companies failed, that this integrated approach does not really exist. I would like to repeat what my fellow Members have asked or explained. I had just started my speech saying that the GEN project is a beautiful project but in reality now, x-number of years later, is a missed opportunity. It is therefore striking that the parties that have been in control of mobility for years now are now turning into vultures on this project. As it turned out, my speech was not yet cold and one colleague says that the GEN project has gone wrong because this government is making savings on the railways' budget. Minister, you clearly said that this is not the case. It's not this government's fault. Everyone knows, after yesterday and today, that the GEN-Fonds existed, was also fully paid out, but that this was not enough from the beginning, that this envelope was not enough and that it was not realistic in terms of deadlines either. With regard to those vultures that are now landing on that file, I find it striking that questions are being asked here about the creation of a GEN cell, while it is just that party that delivered the minister in May 2014 when the GEN cell was established. I would like to reiterate that, according to my party, the reasons for the failure of the GEN project are to be found in those wrong political choices. We've already spent a lot of crap. We are now short EUR 1 050 000 000. The problem is not the lack of a safe house at a particular stop. There are far worse problems. The problem is not too much involvement either. I rather think there's not enough involvement. I refer once again to the reduction of the steering committee by Minister Magnette. The problem is also that major administrative errors have been made, which have been sufficiently cited here yesterday and today. I welcome the fact that these errors are corrected and that you are making efforts to re-establish the ECMM and the like. I would also like to comment on those four tracks for those two lines. Everyone here is staring blindly at those four tracks, while there were originally only three tracks for that line. Yesterday I asked the Court of Auditors why one of the two lines was finally chosen for four tracks and not an alternative route. However, the Court of Auditors could not answer that question clearly. I have heard from my fellow Members that they are open to what is positive for the efficient use of taxpayers' money. Our chairman already referred to that. We can only welcome that. I have heard fellow members of the CdH argue in favour of reviewing the whole GEN project. I notice that the sp.a in Brussels has inventive solutions for mobility in the city, such as a sky train. I would like to come back to the question of whether these four tracks can be realized. That will cost a great deal of money, ladies and gentlemen. Is that really the best solution? What do you say we make that modal shift happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u26	I once again endorse the recommendations of the Court of Auditors to carry out this multimodal need analysis. Mr Jef Van den Bergh also argued in favour of it. I have also argued in favour of it and I would like to argue in favour of it once again. The intermediate scenario may have been more realistic, but it has taken a very long time to realize it. I regret that. In the meantime, it hasn't been realized yet. However, I would like to end with a positive note. It is a good thing that efforts are now being made to implement the integrated approach that was not there. You're trying to revive the ECMM. You meet with it on a regular basis. You said yourself that you have had more meetings in a few months than in the past 15 years. That is the only way, because the GEN is not just a railway project. That was said several times. We should not just look at the rail section. You have also explained in detail the amount of 1.05 billion. Despite the savings made by this government, ladies and gentlemen, to which you are happy to devote all the current problems, we can say that this government is releasing additional resources. The explanation shows that it is sensible and realistic to look at how it will be spent. You provide a margin for financing the GEN. The Court of Auditors says 800 million, but we all know it won't be enough. You say that you respect the 60/40 ratio. I think that is also very sensible. You also say that it must be done with the local needs by building palaces and that the traveller must really be considered. The conclusion for our party is a bit bitter. The GEN is a missed opportunity, but there are still some signs of hope, through the approach of this government, which is making efforts, and the evidence is there to re-invigorate the GEN project in a good way, both integrated and financially realistic. Finally, there is a financial aspect. The use of Beliris funds for the GEN, an option also suggested by Minister Galant, can be looked at for us. The Beliris funds were increased in the sixth state reform, with a view to mobility in our capital. This fits perfectly into the objectives of the GEN project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u27	Minister, I started my speech yesterday but you were not here. The Court of Auditors' report states that, since 2001, no one could exonerate himself from his responsibility. But keeping certain remarks from the Court of Auditors and not others is not very acceptable and even if there is a collective and diffuse responsibility that appears in the Court of Auditors' report, you are today the minister. In the face of a completely independent and objective report, we have never benefited from an objective analysis of the problem of the RSP in relation to the causes of delays and funding. Now this report exists and it is up to you to take your responsibilities and not to reject them on your predecessors. I would like to return to your statements, and in particular to the causes of the delays. You have spoken of the unavailability of financial resources without mentioning the remarks made by the Court of Auditors. I would point out – not the PS, but the Court of Auditors – that "the State has financed the RER Fund, in accordance with its obligations for a total amount of 2,184 billion from 2006 to 2014". The Court went on to say: "In 2015 and 2016, there was no additional funding since the agreement had been closed and it was through the normal allocation, i.e. the State allocation to Infrabel and SNCB, that the financing of the RER had to be foreseen, given the savings of three billion". The Court of Auditors points out that this has an impact on investment. The other impact is the shutdown of the 2013-2025 IPP's investments. Indeed, the Court of Auditors points out that: "Fourthly, the application of the PPI 2013-2025 was suspended in July 2015 and that no other plan to achieve the objectives of the service of the intermediate RER offer 2015 is in force". However, in the absence of this plan, there was no further work at the ER level. I'm not saying it, it's the Court of Auditors. At the same time, the Court of Auditors shows that, for the intermediate offer that had been accepted by the previous government, the one that followed the study you cited in 2009, there were 375 million that were provided for in this investment plan. Simply select things. I do see what the Court of Auditors says with the tables it has given us: "353 million euros", excuse me! It is the Court of Auditors that says so. It notes that the PPI 2013-2025 includes indeed "352 million euros for the work of the RER" on page 45 but it notes, on page 335, that "the fact of having stopped the work in 2015 and 2016 cost 45 million because of the suspension of the PPI." That, Mr Minister, is what the Court of Auditors is actually saying today! Compared to what you have told us now, if I understand you correctly, you intend to ask the two companies to repeat a "needs analysis", which scares me, in relation to the RER service, to the suburban offer. What does that mean? Minister, you said you were going to continue the four-lane rebate. But is it after this study? Or is it still in the current work? Mr Minister, you know that the Walloon Region's 200 million are subject to one condition: the complete four-lane set-up and not, Mrs De Coninck, the three-lane set-up or a reduced suburban offer, because there would be no money. The question, Minister, is clearly whether the four tracks are confirmed. Why is it said that the end of the ER work must be removed from the 60-40 key? That is because, Mr Minister, we have this report from the Court of Auditors. You're not the one who made this convention. I don't call you responsible. The RER joins Wallonia in Brussels and, obviously, goes through Flanders. It is well known that all the work in Flanders was taken out of the 60-40 key, which allowed Flanders to make capacity extensions. [[That's good!]] I am for more investment, Mrs De Coninck, and for more funding at Infrabel and SNCB and no less. Let it be clear! When we see that this work did not cost Flanders but was neutral work, but that all the Walloon work cost Wallonia, I think it is time to get out, given this study, Minister, of this key 60-40. I would like to mention another point raised by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has said, in any case for the RER – and I am also talking to the N-VA, which advocates the goed bestuur – that the most effective way to complete the RER was indeed to return these multi-annual keys – you said that you were going to do it, I would like to know the government's decision – or indeed to get out of it. Minister, you always say that you are a pragmatic man and I believe you. What I am asking you is that, for the economic world, for Brussels, for health, for the environment, this RER cannot be postponed to 2030. That billion, if you have it, should be spent on the ER. I am not yet convinced that your billion, you have it, but in any case, it seems to me that it should be entirely devoted to the RER. Compared to the billion, I'll wait for your painting. If I understand correctly, the 60/40 key will automatically be imposed on your billion. I ask you, will the virtual billion be subject to the 60/40 allocation key? Another question, because you mentioned them, Minister, is security investments. It is true that the previous governments have not been able to take out these safety investments, but we have, ladies and gentlemen, since Buizingen, two new accidents with, each time, one death and many injuries. The commuters and railway workers today are afraid to take the train. Minister, for this government, security is a priority. Don't you also think that the 60/40 key is not necessary? As I say, a Walloon life is a Flemish life and is a Brussels life. These are human lives. It's about security. We know that safety costs a lot more on the Walloon rail given its situation. I believe that security should be removed from the allocation key because otherwise, what is going to happen, Minister, appears in Infrabel's investment plan that was accepted by the AC yesterday. That is what the press says, and I would remind you that it is a Dutch- and French-speaking theme. There will no longer be maintenance of the Walloon rail if the safety priority remains governed by the 60/40 key. Minister, I solemnly ask you to negotiate with your partners, who are so keen on public transport; to negotiate first a reduction in the savings required of Infrabel and SNCB, because it is not possible for them to bear 3 billion savings; and at the same time to remove the RER from the 60/40 key. This seems essential to me for the proper and efficient management of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for answering all our questions; and for the clarity of your explanations, including the details of the 1,050 million that are arriving at their destination. We have very clearly acknowledged your pragmatism, which has just been said by the Socialist Group. I think it's going to have a lot of effect and do a lot of good at the ER. Nevertheless, I believe that compliance with the 60/40 key on a multi-year basis, as you have announced, will enable us to respond to a few criticisms. Moreover, this was proposed by the Court of Auditors in order to make progress in both regions in an efficient manner. There has been a famous political waste in the last twenty years at the federal state level. It is still amazing to see such wanderings, such a lack of decisions, such a lack of follow-up, such a lack of control. We don't do any worse, in terms of governance deficit. It is a political waste, as you said, more than an operational waste. I believe that in this context, the two companies, Infrabel and SNCB, have managed very well, without follow-up by the various ministers or the Steering Committee which has been expected for some time. We can thank you for reinvigorating the Executive Committee of Ministers of Mobility and the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u29	I hope more transparency at Walloon level on this issue too and on the fulfilment of the commitments that the Regions made in the framework of this multimodal RER project, also focusing on regional public transport. It is worth seeing clearly what has been done. As has been said, the State has fulfilled its obligations in terms of financing the RER Fund. The previous minister was criticized for not taking the measure that more than $1 billion was needed to complete the RSP. Although more than $350 million was planned in the 2013-2025 IPP, it was intended to complete what had not been done in the previous IPP. It is forgotten to add that the Court of Auditors also states that what was in PPI 2013-2025 did not allow to finish the RER project. This admission of failure is evidence of a flagrant error of estimation on the part of the ministers of that time. I hope that with your commitment, the phoenix will be reborn from its ashes and that the inhabitants of this RER zone will have the pleasure of seeing the project succeed. At the end of the day, what is important is what the citizens get out of it. So far, they have mostly drawn many disadvantages and few results, apart from the 72 trains added last December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the clear explanation of your vision. In the meantime, we know you as a team player and organizer and as someone who also allows others, in this case the Regions, to score. I found it brave, first of all, that you have not only pointed out the political responsibility of the former ministers responsible for Mobility, but also the responsibilities of the CEOs that have been active at Infrabel and SNCB over the past 15 years. Indeed, it was necessary to increase the ECMM's rhythm of meetings; you have played a leading role in this regard. This gives a number of indications and political guidelines. As an engineer, I can only confirm that your approach per route is the most efficient. I am pleased to hear that line 161, which is in my municipality's territory after all, will be treated as a priority. I am also pleased that you were able to conclude an agreement to move away from the 60/40 ratio for the purposes of completing the GEN project. The Court of Auditors' report indicates that this key has been a brake rather than an accelerator for the development and construction of the GEN. In my view, it is pragmatic to divide the budget and then build the tracks, so that the trains can finally run around 2022. Finally, as you yourself said, it is important to increase the supply for the inhabitants of Brussels and surrounding areas. It must be an en-en-story: the trains must be more frequent and the passengers must reach the stations with De Lijn, the TEC, the Audi A6 or the bike. I believe that the regions play a very important role in this matter, and I also note that they are more motivated today to participate in it. I see that both in my municipality and in other municipalities. I wish you much perseverance, courage and energy to complete the project. I welcome your approach and wish you every success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I hope that you will pass on the figures to the secretariat, because I was lost just now in the number dance. I have another question about the amount of one billion, in particular the cost of the availability fee. Whoever lends or makes available that billion degrees, whether through the FPS or internally, who bears the cost of the availability fee and what budget article do they relate to? I still haven't figured that out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u32	I didn't understand your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u33	Suppose it happens within the companies themselves, then one has to look at the debt situation there. What I do not understand is who is financially responsible for the associated availability fee. How's that gonna matter? Where can I find that? This is likely to include interest charges and an availability fee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u34	I explained that it was not a corporate debt. So today we are looking for the vehicle: either a state debt, or a VPS that would be created and in which we would find the assets related to the works and the expenses that are reimbursed by the State. It's not at all at Infrabel, nor at SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll be brief because I heard you. Maybe I even got it. On the other hand, Mrs De Coninck's statements shocked me when she said that, more than ever, we would have to remain attentive. If in the Flemish Region, the four-tracking is almost complete, implying that, "as by chance", this is not the case in the Region from which I come, is shocking. The Court of Auditors shows us a global network with all its imperfections but does not dispute the complete network. And where it's not done yet, maybe they don't need it? Saying it is arrogant. So I'm going to be careful because I've heard what you're telling us. I'll look more than ever at the promised painting. But with partners like that, you have to be careful. We can see clearly where the danger is for those who today suffer from what has been – bad – done in the past; in particular, lines 124 and 161 are the great losers. Do not come to tell me that the commuters on these lines are responsible for what has been denounced by the Court of Auditors. I'm not going to take part in such a miscarriage. Understand my anger!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u36	Mrs. Poncelet, are you angry?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u37	I'm moderate. I wanted to say that it is understood that the minister is providing clarification and positive and promising elements. We can be happy about that. However, we are still hungry about the issue of the financial set-up that you have mentioned, which is still a little blurry. Could you quickly provide us with specific information on this matter? Is there an agreement for a billion-dollar loan? How was this loan obtained? How will it be consolidated? How will it be used by SNCB and Infrabel? Wallonia is waiting for specific funding responses, to be reassured about the full implementation of the RSP.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u38	I thank the Minister for reading all the pieces of the Court of Auditors' analysis, keeping what suits you the most and leaving aside what suits you the least, such as the IPP ruling in 2015. Your colleagues at the MR say you're the savior, which you're sinking into a little Mrs. Galant... As far as deadlines are concerned, we have learned that, in five years' time, this will not be over. That's the only certainty. For the rest, there are still many uncertainties and questions. On the cost, you want to be reassuring, but there are things that bother me. You are telling me that there are 1,050 million people in three posts: Wallonia, Flanders, neutral zone. If we isolate the neutral part, we get 87% for Wallonia and 13% for Flanders. I wonder, in this case, how you will solve the problem of the 60/40 key from the moment you leave a base 13/87. It's going to be difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u40	That's what you said. If we remove the neutral zone and keep only Wallonia and Flanders...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u41	It is pointless to develop your reasoning, because you will receive the picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u42	Is the painting going to shed some light on us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u43	I hope, in any case, Minister, that we will receive it tomorrow. Questions can be asked once an agreement has been reached on the billion. Having said that, without a table, it is very complicated to understand the figures you have given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u44	Admit it. In any case, I see a distribution of 8/87. Even with a multi-year 60/40 key, I think we will need a few decades to make up for key 13/87, unless we take into account amounts that escape key 60/40. In short, I wonder how we are going to solve this problem. Furthermore, what will be the effects of such disproportion on other investments, particularly in terms of security? We will therefore consult the table. Finally, Mr Minister, on this comparison between 2002 and 2016, when the Court of Auditors sees that the supply of trains has decreased in the morning peak hours, you tell me that there are 72 more. Either, but what is the effect? Is there an increase in supply or is it still the status quo? It would have been interesting to know how the supply at peak hours was affected. You sell us these 72 trains without showing us their real impact! I don't know what that means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic607x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of our work. I would remind you that, after the Krokusvakantia, there will be questions to the minister - outside the ER - and we will hold a hearing on the transport plan. As soon as the government validates the investment plans, we will address this theme and, perhaps one day, the one relating to the management contract.
