ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with an overview of the facts as they have occurred on Thursday and Friday. An overview of the facts relating to the worrying disappearance of the NBMV B.B. on 23 June 2017. In addition, some short-term solutions and possible themes for a task force on the disappearance of minors in Belgium. The boy was caught stealing on June 22, 2017. Since this fact was not serious enough for the court to take action, the Foreign Office was informed and the local police of Schaerbeek were invited to fill out an identification sheet and await the decision of the custody service. Involved was invited by the Foreign Affairs Office to submit to the Foreign Affairs Office before 28 June. The boy arrived at the Foreign Affairs Office on 23 June at about 11 a.m., via the police, who dropped him off there. The boy was entrusted by the police to the security staff of the Asylum Executive Board at the Foreign Affairs Office. As you know, they're at the entrance. You've already visited that building, and you know it. Security personnel alerted MINTEH, Minors et Traite des Etres Humains. This service is staffed by officials working specifically on minors and victims of trafficking in human beings. The boy was immediately spotted by an employee of MINTEH's office and he immediately took care of him. With the help of an Arab interpreter, the identification sheet was rewritten and the necessary explanations were given as to what was going to happen to him, namely the procedure, the reception, the fact that he is going to have a guardian and so on. Possibly the police also produced an identification sheet and sent it to the custody department. This chip is not in the possession of the Foreign Office. During the interview with the staff member of the Bureau MINTEH, the boy stated several times that he did not want to be helped. He refused to go to a shelter, expressed his desire to return to his brother, who was staying with an acquaintance in Brussels-South. In view of his defensive verbal attitude towards the employees as well as his physical appearance, he seemed older than the declared age of nine years. Fedasil was immediately informed and took measures to transfer the boy as soon as possible by taxi to a center. The taxi company was informed of the possible flight risk. When the boy was informed of this, he repeated his wish to leave alone as soon as possible. He said he'd jump out of the cab if he had to. It was clear that it was his intention to run away. Other services of DVZ and Fedasil were informed of this and were asked to be extra vigilant. This is where the task of the Foreign Office ends. When he was returned from the medical service by Fedasil personnel to the security staff, something went wrong. Fedasil's staff had just placed the boy in the waiting area without informing the security personnel. When entering the Foreign Affairs Department there are metal detectors; you have already noticed that. Well, the waiting room is right on the left in the entrance hall. At that time, the security staff were very busy letting in and searching the asylum seekers after the afternoon break. Asylum seekers who are of age or who are accompanied by an adult are given an opportunity to eat something outside the building in the afternoon. They get a recognition badge for this with a view to returning after noon. For example, if you register at 8 o'clock and apply for asylum, you may go outside at 12 o'clock to buy food or to report to an organisation that distributes soup there. Those people get a badge to get back in soon after. So, at the time of the facts, all those people were coming back in, so it was pretty crowded. That hustle was used by the boy to escape from the building. The lack of sufficient communication between Fedasil's medical staff and DVZ's security staff was therefore the direct cause, which allowed the boy to escape attention and leave the building. However, the disappearance of the boy was noticed quite quickly and immediately all the services were informed of this. This information was passed on by DVZ employees to the Voogdij service and other services involved at the time of the description. Fedasil had designated the orientation and observation centre for minors at Lower-Over-Heembeek as a shelter, because Minor-Ndako had indicated that he had no place and that the profile of the person concerned was not a priority for them. Normally the boy had to go to Lower-over-Heembeek. The MINTEH office considered this, wrongly, not as an alarming disappearance, but rather as the escape and escape of a boy to his knowledge and brother, and it was assumed, without verifying this, that the disappearance by Fedasil would be reported to the police and/or the custody service. After all, they were also aware of the disappearance. Fedasil would notify the center he was assigned to. The custody service had also informed us on Friday morning 23 June for care at Minor-Ndako. It was not entirely clear whether Minor-Ndako had a shelter available or not. Minor-Ndako then received information from the custody service, which information was used in the notification to Child Focus. DVZ and Fedasil were not contacted or reached by Minor-Ndako. What short-term solutions do my services propose? Firstly, the deregistration of the route with responsibilities who at what point has responsibility for the self-declared minor via a checklist. Secondly, guidance at any time of the minor by the staff of DVZ and/or Fedasil during his identification and data recording, medical check and waiting until transport to the shelter. I must also say that we took immediate action in this regard. Minors are no longer put on that bench at the entrance hall. They're heading for the first floor now. It's a little easier. There's always supervision from this week on. They can leave the building less easily. So unsubscribe a procedure which should be done if the minor refuses to cooperate. What should we do in the event of a disappearance during the proceedings in DVZ's premises? What should be done in the event of a refusal of reception? Provide a better place for supervision at DVZ. We have done so on the first floor, further from the exit of the building, so that the minor is forced to participate in the procedure. In this case, the term "mandatory' is to be understood as "mandatory' and "mandatory' is to be understood as "mandatory'. Numbers keep up well for those who do not volunteer, because the police are not in a position to bring them to DVZ. It is therefore necessary to keep records of those who do not volunteer, because the police cannot bring them to DVZ. I'm thinking, for example, of a minor being picked up by Roeselare's police department on the weekends, on a Saturday night. Normally, the Voogdij service should be called, but this service does not always have permanence. What happens then? Then they make a phone call to the Foreign Office to ask what to do with that child. They're on permanent duty. Every day you can call the Foreign Office. Then Fedasil looks to place them in an OOC or somewhere else as soon as possible. That's not always obvious on the weekends. It happens that they stay at the police station for many hours. I'm setting my own zone as an example. The night shift with us has one night patrol, which works from 22:00 to 06:00. If they have to drive to Brussels with a minor and there is an accident in Boutersem, for example, they will not be able to do so. In Roeselare they will have more night shifts, but then there is always a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bite of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bite of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bite of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a It happens. There are procedures for this and it is not always obvious, especially on weekends, but we are doing what we can, so that these children will be put in place, preferably on the same weekend. We will. Often the registration and registration at the Aliens Office only takes place on Monday and the fingerprints are taken. As communication was the key word in failing the protection mission and in view of the issues requiring urgent consultation, a consultation platform for evaluation and good practices and a task force that meets regularly is an absolute necessity and priority. That's the conclusion of my chief of staff, Asylum. I have a number of other elements which I would like to add in reply to Mrs Lanjri's question. I've already said a number of things. The boy was brought in by the police to the Foreign Office at 11:30 and was immediately seen by an officer of the agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, may I ask my question, which is linked to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u3	You were late.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u4	What do you mean, I was late? This is a debate, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u5	It is the intention, Mr Secretary of State, that you first explain yourself. You can do that for as long as you want. Then I shall give the floor to the members of the committee. If there are any more questions, that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u6	My question is linked to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u7	Yes, but the Secretary of State will explain first. It's an exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u8	The boy was brought in by the police to the Foreign Office at 11:00 to 11:30. He was immediately seen by an employee of the MINTEH office. With the help of an Arabic interpreter, a description sheet was made up and explained what was in store for him. The boy stated several times that he did not want to be helped and refused to go to a shelter. He expressed the wish to return to his brother who was staying with a friend in Brussels-South. In view of his verbal defensive attitude as well as his physical appearance, he seemed older than the declared age of nine years. Fedasil was immediately informed. It took measures to transfer the boy as soon as possible by taxi to a shelter. When the boy was informed of this, he repeated his wish to leave alone as soon as possible. He said he'd jump out of the cab if he had to. It was clearly his intention to run away. Other services of the Foreign Office and Fedasil were informed of this and were asked to be extra vigilant. When he was returned from Fedasil's medical service to the security staff, something went wrong. He took advantage of the busy moment during the walk-in and search of the asylum seekers after the afternoon break and managed to escape from the building. When it was noted that the boy had disappeared, all the services were immediately informed. This information was passed on by DVZ employees to the Voogdij service and other services involved at the time of the description. DVZ didn't consider it an alarming disappearance, but rather as fleeing a boy to his knowledge and brother. It was believed that the boy's disappearance would be reported to the police by Fedasil. After all, this was partly aware of the disappearance and takes care of the follow-up. Fedasil would inform the center to which the boy was assigned. So they've been looking at each other, something that should never happen again. The Dispatching Service of Fedasil is informed by the Foreign Affairs Office of the newcomers per day and is competent to assign a place in an observation and orientation centre of the federal reception network. If the young person disappears from that centre, the OOC will immediately initiate the disappearance procedure in accordance with the modalities of the 2008 cooperation protocol. That protocol concerns the disappearance files of unaccompanied minors entrusted to the observation and orientation centres of Steenokkerzeel and Neder-over-Heembeek. It was closed between the parish general and the court of appeal of Brussels, the parish of the court of first instance of Brussels, DVZ, the CGVS, Fedasil, the Brussels Police Capital and Elsene, the Kampenhout Police, Steenokkerzeel and Zemst, the Voogdij and Child Focus. The parquet magistraat is in charge of the disappearance file. All useful data relating to the disappearance are transmitted to the public prosecutor via the local police and centralized there. In addition, the Signatories also have a number of specific tasks. As far as the OOC is concerned, this concerns the following tasks. First, the immediate delivery of the disappearance and intake form to the police capital of Ixelles, or police KASTZE, depending on the location of disappearance. Secondly, the immediate delivery of the disappearance form to the guardian and the Voogdij department, also to the Border Inspection department if the unaccompanied minor has not obtained access to the territory. Thirdly, the immediate delivery of the disappearance form to Child Focus, if the disappearance is of an alarming nature and one or more criteria of the Ministerial Directive of 20 February 2002 on the detection of missing persons have been met. There is no national protocol. However, each shelter has a disappearance procedure similar to that of the protocol, including regular consultation with the police. In 2015, a working group reviewed the operational measures to improve the Disappearance Protocol that was signed. The agreements in the protocol were reviewed, as well as the contact details of each partner. We updated the protocol. As neither coercion nor temporary detention of a minor is possible in the Foreign Affairs Office, appropriate measures should be taken: faster placement by the juvenile court in problematic educational situations and in facts defined as crime, vulnerability and risk of running away; clear agreements between DVZ and Fedasil; extension of the protocol, including for young people who disappear outside the OOCs. The young person in question wasn't in an OOC yet, but at DVZ. The possibility to take additional measures in relation to such risk profiles. Outside office hours, the vulnerable unaccompanied minor is notified by the Voogdij service, after which reception is provided. These young people receive, in addition to a warm welcome, the necessary information about the reception facilities and procedures in Belgium from when the social assistants arrived. If these young people indicate that they do not want further care, the guidance provided by these social assistants, the family environment and contact with the other young people may sometimes convince them to stay in care. Some young people decide to leave the OOC after this. In this case, the disappearance procedure, as described above, will be initiated immediately. 166 disappearances were reported for 2015. As described in the protocol, the OOC gives an initial indication of whether or not the disappearance is worrying. Eventually, the disturbing character is determined by police and public prosecutors. In 2016, there were 448 disappearances. So this number has increased enormously. Why did this go up so brightly? Fedasil indicates that the increase is due to the better recording of the disappearances through the incident report. Registration is also about disappearances through all places for unaccompanied minors, not only through the OOCs. That's about two thousand places. In 2015, 52 cases were identified by the reception centres as disappearances of an alarming nature. Seven children were under 14 years of age. In 2016, there were 51 cases of an alarming nature. The indications of an alarming nature are described in the 2002 Ministerial Directive on missing persons, which was amended on 20 April 2003. On the basis of criteria one can make an assessment of the worryingness of a disappearance. First of all, the missing person is younger than 13 years old. Secondly, the missing person is physically or mentally disabled or lacks the necessary self-reliance. Thirdly, the missing person is dependent on essential medication or medical treatment. Fourthly, on the basis of the information available, it can be assumed that the missing person is in a life-threatening situation for him. Fifth, on the basis of the available information, it may be suspected that the missing person is in the company of third parties who may threaten his well-being or that he/she is the victim of a crime. Sixth, the absence of the person is in complete contrast to his/her normal behavior. These are the indicators or criteria for an alarming disappearance. Of these, 52 were in 2015, of which seven were under 14 years of age, 51 in 2016. The number of disappearances detected was 166 in 2015 and 448 in 2016. What's my analysis now? I have, of course, dealt with this very intensely in the last few days. What have we done and what else do we have to do? Where do I think it's going to go wrong? There's not enough visibility on all the disappearances. We have a visual on the disappearances from the OOCs. There is a protocol for that. That'll work just like that. If the disappearance occurs with the police, before the asylum seeker is brought to DVZ, at DVZ, in a center of Fedasil or an ordinary center for unaccompanied underage foreigners, so no OOC, then there is insufficient flow of information. So there really is no global figure. For example, Fedasil explains the fact that people go from over 100 to 448 disappearances, because of the better interpretation of the information sheets. I have been calling for a long time, especially since the asylum crisis, for all reports of incidents relating to violence and fighting to be filled in more effectively. I cannot urge Jean-Pierre Luxen enough that we should have a better view of what is happening in the centres. So that's also about disappearances. I had a long talk with the people of Child Focus and Minor-Ndako yesterday. I think we should be careful not to drown the fish. Let me give you a concrete example. We're doing an action at the station Brussels-North. There are many people without a stay, on their way to the United Kingdom. In the last few weeks, we've launched a derailment campaign. We're working on that very intensely. The number of people was slightly less, but now it's going up again. Among these people there are a lot of self-declared minors. They claim to be 17 years old themselves, but our experts estimate their age a little higher based on their physical status. In order to be sure, a bone scan is necessary. There's an action going on. The police will pick them up and take them to DVZ. They're registered. They're refusing asylum. They refuse a shelter because they don't want to be here at all. They refuse to cooperate and leave again. If we have to report all these disappearances, neither Child Focus nor the parquet would be able to handle the work and we have a problem there. These are not worrying disappearances, as defined in the Ministerial Letter or Directive. Those facts are not included. I've ordered the Foreign Office to report from now on that someone who was dropped off by the police at DVZ is leaving again. So that person will be ticked off as missing. The number of disappearances will thus rise enormously, because it is about many young people. A large number of them are, I repeat, not underage at all, but we do not know that at the time, because they have explained that themselves and they are not cooperating in a bone scan. We'll register everything. Such an incident will not happen again, but it is a bit easy to say that we have done our job. The problem is a little more complex than that. The most important thing is to focus on disturbing disappearances. If a 9 or 13-year-old disappears, that's an alarming disappearance. That is also very clear in the ministerial directive. Last Monday, the Brussels parquet called all the parties together. I served with my top officials and yesterday with Minor-Ndako and Child Focus. The first meeting of the task force will take place next Tuesday at 10 a.m. and I will be there. All partners are invited to this. The invitation's about to leave. The agenda includes the composition and objective of the Task Force and a clarification of the figures. The figures of Child Focus are not the figures I receive from my administration and are also different figures from those of the Voogdij department, so this needs to be clarified. The protocol should also be reviewed and extended. I think it's already a solid agenda. It is also necessary to agree on practical matters. We will make real progress on this. Didn't anything happen? Was there a desert in that area? No. Among all previous governments, the phenomenon was always followed up by our officials. At the moment such a thing happens, one can see that there are still some gaps in the system. They need to be closed as soon as possible. I am very happy to listen to your constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u9	For the sake of clarity, I tabled my question on Monday morning, before it was decided to hold a topical debate on the subject in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u10	Excuse me, I want to make something clear. We also tabled a question yesterday. I thought we agreed yesterday morning to bring together all these questions and have a topical debate today, which means that the questions do not necessarily need to be answered, because they do so in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u11	The committee services have reminded me that the Rules of Procedure require that three questions have been put in advance for the organisation of a topical debate. A topical debate may then be held at the sitting or in advance. The format that we use here and which is mentioned in the agenda is the exchange of views rather than a topical debate. This is the same format, but as a result the Rules of Procedure remain applicable and there is no free interpretation. We leave everyone the room to replicate immediately or to ask additional questions based on the information and the questions they have. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, I note that in the meantime you have answered most of the questions without repeating the questions. I asked for a report because the answer was very quick and I would like to read it again. You have outlined what has gone wrong and you have given some explanation about the cooperation protocol. Furthermore, you have stressed the need for better coordination, because each centre and department has a separate way of working. I hope that after the consultation you have scheduled for next week, this can be better coordinated. I also asked what initiatives you would take in order to avoid such disappearances in the future. You have already mentioned a few elements, but I hope that proposals will follow. You also mentioned the placing of minors on the first floor and better supervision. I have already visited DVZ, and even then I thought it strange to hear that young people who were already in a separate room of DVZ could slip out. However, it has happened and I hope that other measures will be taken in the future. I hope, above all, that there will not only be supervision in the waiting area where the unaccompanied minors are sitting, but that there will also be someone there who will explain to the young people concerned what is going to happen. These young people are told all sorts of things, sometimes by traffickers, such as being arrested and not having their fingerprints taken. So they are frightened and traumatized. If they do not know at that time how the procedure at DVZ is going, then they are either failing or trying to escape. It is therefore important that a person be assigned to the unaccompanied minors present, who will explain to them and guide them through the hallways of DVZ for X-rays or fingerprints. They must not be left alone at any time. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State, it is also important to keep the intake procedure as short as possible. I've already heard on the field that twelve-year-olds had to spend a whole day at DVZ. DVZ is no place to let underage kids sit for a whole day. Thus, for the intake at that time, use an accelerated procedure, so that the young people have completed the most important at one hour. They must be given priority. They should be able to take their fingerprints immediately so that they do not have to wait half or all day and someone should stay with them. Besides, I wonder if young people have to wait half a day at DVZ, like the boy in question, if they are being fed. What happens for them around noon? I hope that you will be able to organise the procedure in the future in such a way that there is no need for young people to sit there half a day or even a full day. That should all be over in one or two hours at most. Above all, care must be taken to ensure that someone is present with these young people all the time. I have also been told that young people from DVZ are put in a taxi, towards East- or West-Flanders, towards the shelter. That is, of course, also a problem. For young children, who have been through a lot, I don't think it's good to put them in a taxi. Make sure this is done with staff from DVZ or the center itself. Finally, I have a proposal, and it seems to me that I am not alone with it. I read on Monday that David Lowyck of Minor-Ndako was also on that piste. Why should we not in the future, especially the 15-year-olds, first take them to the shelter to visit DVZ for registration from there? I know we need a medical check-up. I also know the fingerprints need to be taken. It has to be done. I won't say this shouldn't happen. But perhaps this can be done for young children, who are known to be probably younger than 14 years old, in a different way, for example by taking them to a centre first? By the way, I have heard that this is happening in practice now and then. Sometimes the young people are taken directly to DVZ. I think it is advisable to write down a procedure for younger children so that they are first taken to a centre, especially when it is in the middle of the night. That way they can get some explanation there. They come into contact with other young people, who can sometimes speak to them in their language and, in a sense, give them some comfort. The counselors of the shelter can go with you to DVZ. That way, all of that can go better. How do you feel about my proposal? Are you receptive to that? Will you take a look at this next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u13	A question was also put by Mrs De Coninck last night.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that you have discovered that reality is extremely complex. Before, it was certainly not the desert, but as the context changes, holes in the system keep coming up again and again. I can understand that very well. I am pleased that you are carrying out a thorough investigation into this and that you are personally monitoring it, which makes you feel addressed. I refer to the questions of 15 March 2016 by Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Jadin, Mr Metsu and myself on the same issue. I looked up that question and your answer. You will see, Mr President, why it is so important that reports are not only available on video. Mr Secretary of State, I have read your answer again to the questions we asked about worrying disappearances. You were reviewing the procedures at the time. You said that, in the context of an action plan in the fight against trafficking in human beings for 2015-2018, you were reviewing the 2008 protocol agreement between the various agencies called "Fedasil, DVZ, the custody service, the police, the police, the public prosecutor and Child Focus " on the disappearance of unaccompanied minors, especially in order to prevent disappearances. In the nightcare centres, control moments were scheduled during day-to-day operation, e.g. night control, school attendance control and the permission system. You also said that in 2015 Norway faced a very large influx of unaccompanied minors, about 5,000 young people. It was then decided, as Mrs Lanjri said earlier, to automatically send children under 15 years of age to the shelter. They do not even apply medical or administrative procedures. They're just being sent to the shelter. Young people over the age of 15 follow the traditional system that now exists. Anyone under 15 years of age must then go through a procedure, but from the context of care. A preventive measure is therefore first to be taken to protect it. It is only after that that the investigation is done. I don't think that's a bad system. Both the French and the Flemish communities have made efforts in recent years to create places, because that is, of course, the bottleneck. Of course, there must be shelter. So I think you should sit around the table with your colleagues from the other governments. I don't think the federal government should take care of everything to make the system work better. Everyone has to take responsibility for that. I come to a second element. You want to register everything. I absolutely agree, because something that is not registered does not exist in our system. One can be happy with that or not, but it is a start to deal with a problem. You say that you will do better and that all those who declare themselves to be minors will be registered. As soon as they disappear, it can be both an alarming and an ordinary disappearance.A report will be made to Child Focus. You say that in Brussels-North you are faced with a lot of minors, who are or are not really minors, who are in transit to the United Kingdom. We know that it is not so obvious to enter the United Kingdom. It's a problem. It can be argued that we are not doing much about this now because there will be a lot of reception services, administrative and police services and that there will be nothing to do about it, but they are on the streets. We will have to do something about this for those people themselves and for the environment, for the urban environment. That is an issue that we cannot ignore. How will we deal with this in the long term? I understand that you will make procedures even sharper and adapt them to the new reality, not a problem at all, but as you pointed out in your reply yourself six months ago, it is also important to have controls. People must feel that procedures are also being monitored, because if they do not, they will be forgotten. One then uses shortcuts, which is absolutely human. I'm not throwing stones, but control is very important, especially for minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u15	Mr. Secretary of State, you provided some answers at the beginning of the meeting. For my part, I would like to recall the facts because if we do not remind them step by step, we find it difficult to understand what we are talking about. First, it is a nine-year-old child who has disappeared. He may have escaped the surveillance of the officers of the Office of Foreigners in the afternoon. Secondly, there was no need to report the disappearance of this child. Thirdly, it was the Minor-Ndako Emergency Reception Centre that launched the alert. In saying this, I have already severed all the dysfunctions that exist. They are at the level of accompaniment, control and communication. It's not nothing. It is a lot of problems and shortcomings that happen at the same time with this case. This is obviously serious because the State bears responsibilities towards this child and all other unaccompanied minors. It is also serious because it is difficult to get rid of the impression that all the necessary attention has not been paid to this minor. Finally, it is serious because it is just as difficult not to think that the general climate towards foreigners undermines the benevolence that a child should be able to enjoy. A child remains a child even if he is a foreigner. Mr Franken, I regret that in your explanation you mentioned the suspicion of theft, etc. I think we should avoid throwing shame on people. If there are verified and proven facts, let's say so. As for the other explanation of departures to London, etc., I do not think it is a serious explanation. A child remains a child even if he is a foreigner. Moreover, when he does not have ties, he is in great distress when he is alone. And when he doesn't have cultural ties, he doesn't know who to turn to for help. What is also serious is that the young boy is not the only one. This is not an isolated case. I find out the numbers you give us: 448 disappearances according to Fedasil. You explain them according to a more important recording work but also an explanation that you give in relation to migration wills. When I look at the figures from Child Focus, there too, the figures are worrying. In 2016 alone, 162 disappearances were reported and only 64 children were found. Minister, whether it's Fedasil's figures or Child Focus's figures, can you tell us where the 98 children who are no longer in the radars have gone? Where are they? There are a lot of questions to ask you. One first thing I will ask you is to have, in your answers, the time line of what has been done. You have provided explanations, but you would need a line of time to know what was done in real time. How is the support of this MENA carried out at the time of its presence on the premises of the Office of Foreigners? When did the officers of the Foreign Office realize that he was missing from the appeal? What steps have been taken? You said we warned all the services. When? How? What services? Which authorities have reported the disappearance? By whom? When? There's another question that's got us out of our mind. You gave us a definition of the disturbing disappearance according to the prosecutor's office, with criteria, and then you talked about another notion. You said that the Foreign Office considered it not to be a disturbing disappearance. What does "a disappearance that would not be worrying" mean in the definition of the Office of Foreigners? Is it in line with the definition of the worrying disappearance that is being dealt with by the public prosecutor's office? What definition does it have? It's important to ask the question. At what point was contact made by the officers of the Office of Foreigners with the emergency reception centre that gave the alert? In general, I would like to ask the following questions on the social and psychological support of unaccompanied foreign minors. How is this accompaniment going? The child is put in a taxi and has to go to a reception centre alone. A minor who knows nothing about our country must go to a reception centre himself! It's huge! How will he return to the Foreign Office? Do you not find that there is a problem in the accompaniment? What steps have been taken prior to the assignment of a guardian? How do administrative authorities manage MENA as children? What about the specific accompaniment before the start of the procedures? How many MENA files do those responsible for the well-being of these children have to deal with? They are agents of the Foreign Office, which raises the question of how this institution can provide adequate care for unaccompanied minor children. Do the persons managing these files remain the same for each child throughout the proceedings? And is the accompaniment provided by an agent throughout the procedure? If the agent changes, this results in a loss in the quality of follow-up. With regard to disappearances, what are the procedures in force at the level of the Office of Foreigners? What measures are being taken to prevent such disappearances? What measures have been taken at the level of the Office of Foreigners to monitor research and to cooperate with the relevant departments? I would also like to bounce back on what you said, Mr Franken. I raised the issue of accompaniment, in any case the lack of real accompaniment. You said the security services had not been notified. So there is a clear control problem. You also pointed to the problem of the lack of places in the reception centres. Here too, this question deserves to be stopped. Let's finish with the communication. Today, you communicate, you explain some things to us. But where was the communication? What happened? Is the Foreign Office inoperative? Why has the Agency not communicated as you have just done? Why didn't we have real-time information? Whether it is in terms of support, monitoring of each case, places in emergency reception centres, control and communication, one can speak of a real dysfunction in the reception of foreign minors unaccompanied by the Office of Foreigners. The copy is to be reviewed. We understand your readiness to organize a task force and mobilize all resources. You answer us right away, even before we ask questions. But we are faced with a real dysfunction. We must take charge of the situation if we are to offer dignified support and hospitality for these foreign minors. Mr. Chair, Minister, I look forward to specific answers to these many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the various information you have given us. If I may, there's one missing. I'll start with that. What is the situation of little Brahim today? You didn't tell us anything about it. Following this epic, the minimum would be to start with that. Your responsibility is still engaged. You must therefore be able to give certain guarantees in relation to this child. The first thing that strikes me in your remarks is that you say that, in the background, this child wanted to run away. You have repeatedly insisted on this. However, we need to properly acknowledge – I think you are also doing so – a lack of monitoring and/or compliance by the Office with the protocol. When you say he wanted to run away, I would remind you that he is not a fifteen-year-old, but a nine-year-old. It is a little easy to say, from the outset, that a child of this age wants to run away. He must have been terrified. Besides, if everyone knew he wanted to leave, I would have hoped that he would be monitored more closely. It must therefore be recognized that there has been a lack of monitoring. Second, and perhaps the most serious, there was a sort of trivialization of the disappearance of this child, which the Agency did not report. Why didn't he immediately alert the police or Child Focus? Why did it take several hours for this disappearance to be reported? Why, according to my information, is it an association named Minor-Ndako that took care of it? Do you find it normal that the Agency did not immediately commit itself to reporting the disappearance and therefore did not avoid the most serious risks such as the abduction of this child by a network of human trafficking? This question seems to me to be more serious than the first. A lack of monitoring results from human nature and can occur, even if it raises questions in terms of the ability to follow the protocol. I don't know if that's the rule, but this form of trivialization of a disappearance is of the utmost concern to me. From there, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to make a number of observations. The first concerns the quality and effectiveness of the procedures. Are these protocols sufficiently adapted to children? Talking about standard procedure when facing a child is probably not enough. It seems to me necessary to have a personalized procedure for a child. This also raises the question of whether to remain focused first on the administrative procedure and then on the reception mechanism. Is it not necessary for a number of these children to first operate the reception and give themselves a sufficient security framework in relation to those who are in danger and then, after the reception, to ensure the administrative procedure? The second observation is whether or not there is sufficient capacity at the level of the staff of the Office of Foreigners to supervise these children individually and individually. This also raises the question of sufficient reception capacity if, as I suggest in any case, the procedure is reversed with first a reception and then an administrative procedure. Thirdly, I would also like to make the observation that it is necessary to review the situation and to provide answers for all the other children who are today in nature. You quote the 2016 figure of 418 disappearances. On the other hand, I remember the Child Focus figure of 162 cases opened for reports of the disappearance of MENA, three times more than in 2015. The difference is great between 162 and 448! The disappearance of the majority of them is therefore not reported. As far as Brahim is concerned, what I told you was the failure to report. How is it that three-quarters of missing children are not reported? And above all, how old are they? For the nine-year-old Brahim, it was considered that his disappearance should not be reported and it took several hours for an outside association to do so. Therefore, what decisions have been taken as a result of the disappearance of which children, of what ages? Obviously, they are never reported. This figure obviously does not take into account a black figure of children unknown to the administration. In Europe alone, there would be 10,000. It's a matter of concern. Mr Secretary of State, I understand that the procedure provides for reporting only a number of them. But we find that three quarters are not reported. This raises the question of their profile. The criterion of age seems objective to me. If we begin to realize that children between the ages of nine and twelve are never reported, I think that is not acceptable. It underestimates the vulnerability of these children and the dangers to which they are exposed. I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Brahim file clearly demonstrates the existence of loopholes, so we need to review the procedures at different levels. I would still like to recall here how vulnerable these MENA are. This vulnerability implies a specific and personalized care that requires first to consider them as children and not as foreigners. Therefore, there is a need for an approach linked to the specific risks they face. When I speak with police commissioners responsible for the anti-trafficking services, each time I hallucinate by listening to their explanations about what happens to particularly young children, who have passed through "the meshes of the net" and which are found in these traffickings. Your responsibility and our responsibility as politicians is to dare to ask questions and answer them. But it can only really be answered if the government first makes a commitment to consider them as high-risk minors and not as foreigners. That's what I call the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u17	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your introduction. What has happened cannot and must not be taken lightly. I think everyone is convinced of that. What I want to know is whether this is an accident the course, an individual error or a system error. I read in the newspaper that you would have said that this is not a system error, but from everything I know and also from your introduction, it is a structural problem. There are two dimensions. The first dimension is the disappearance itself and the second is how we dealt with it, the reporting and so on. The first dimension is the disappearance itself. You indicated that there was a problem with DVZ's security personnel, that they made the disappearance happen. Clearly, that has not been noticed. In addition, we must try to avoid that minors want to escape effectively. You can say that we can't stop someone like that, that if someone like that wants to escape, he's gone. The question is in what circumstances one ends up in DVZ. Colleagues of mine have already pointed this out and asked about it, but what exactly does this reception look like? Is that young man gonna be comfortable? It may be that this procedure is a rather administrative approach, which works terrifyingly, with fingerprints, registration, bone scans and so on. Such a young person has already experienced a lot on his escape route and may even have come into contact with police and official authorities who have not treated him properly. So it is perfectly possible that he is very suspicious of governments and authorities. That could play a part. So my first question is what this reception looks like. Is a young man being put at ease? Is it friendly or not? Those are important things. Are there any guidelines on how the staff should deal with such a child? As far as reporting is concerned, you say that DVZ has notified all services, once it was realized that the younger one had disappeared. Apparently, the police weren't notified. That is what I am distracting and what strengthens me in the belief that there is actually a system error. Contrary to what you have said in the newspaper, there are apparently no figures at DVZ as to the number of disappearances. So we do not know whether or not what happened last week is a unique case. After all, there are no figures of the number of disappearances of minors from DVZ's offices. I find it striking that this situation has apparently not been considered problematic all this time and that DVD did not consider it necessary to keep figures, let alone to inform the police, which is not the case here in the specific case. I have to admit, I can't go through that with my head. These are children and minors. In the meantime, you should know how big the risks of human trafficking and abuse are, where children effectively fall into the hands of people who don't mean well to them. When a child disappears from the offices of DVZ, no figures are kept and the police are not notified. I really don't understand that. When a Belgian, native child disappears somewhere from a police station, from a city hall or during a school trip, the police are immediately notified, but apparently it has been practice for years that this does not happen at DVZ. I have to question that. Minor-Ndako has indeed recommended that a child should not go through the administrative process at DVZ, but that guidance be provided by, for example, a guardian much more quickly. How do you respond to that? Can we not change the policy in this area and move towards a more restrictive system? This system should not be official, via DVZ, but should be more tailored and personal, so that the younger is more reassured and more comfortable and safe. You are also talking about a protocol. You said something about that in the paper. So it's not about one general protocol, I understand, about how DVZ should deal with disappearances of children, but more about protocols per care structure. Can I get a copy of those protocols? I'm interested. Your proposal for a new task force on disappearances is of course good, but it is first up to each department separately, apart from that task force, to keep track of and report on the disappearances. Each service will therefore still have its responsibility. I also wanted to ask you how often such disappearances occur from the offices of DVZ, but apparently they do not know that. You just said that. I repeat my request to carry out an audit of the Foreign Affairs Department as a whole. This audit is ongoing for a number of parts of DVZ, but at present there is still no general audit of DVZ. There's a lot falling out of the closet, the incidents follow each other. I ask myself in depth questions about DVZ's policy, including the way in which people apparently deal with children's disappearances. This only strengthens the call of a number of people, including fellow Members of this House, for a thorough review of this service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, many questions have already been asked. You have already answered most of the questions in your introduction. You have clearly outlined what has happened and also acknowledged that it should not have happened, that the disappearance of that nine or thirteen-year-old boy should have been noted more quickly, or at least indicated, so that the competent authorities could move faster. This would allow the competent authorities to act more quickly. What's done is done. It is now your services that must prevent such a thing from happening. I don't think such a thing can be avoided, given the high number of people passing through the Foreign Office. Supposing this can't happen anymore doesn't seem realistic to me, let's be honest about that. However, we need a roadmap in order to be able to act quickly and adequately. I do not go too far into this individual case: I know too few details, you know them better. There is also too little point in dealing with this individual case. However, some general lines, which are certainly not new. The identification of the minor is now carried out in cooperation with the Voogdij Department, which is responsible for Justice. Wouldn't it be better to group the entire handling of the identification and custody of unaccompanied minor refugees into one service under your jurisdiction, the Foreign Affairs Office? This will guarantee the overview and surveillance of the minor within one competence and will also allow for a faster investigation of bone scans, for example, which has also proved necessary in this case. In fact, I have also asked Minister Geens a number of times, which I do not think is reluctant to do so. It might be appropriate to put the heads together and discuss that again. Our group is not immediately in favour of some kind of pre-care for unaccompanied minors in order to prevent what has happened from happening again. In my opinion, minors already have separate protection as soon as they are registered. I do not think it is appropriate to set up a separate system prior to the effective determination of the age of the person concerned. Allow me to fear that in that case even more alleged minors could apply to the Foreign Affairs Office. So I do not think it is necessary to set up a completely separate structure. However, it is necessary to avoid, as far as possible, the possibility of such disappearance. The services should therefore be coordinated as far as possible. All settlements, such as registering, identifying, investigating the age and placing minors under custody, should be included in the Foreign Affairs Office. In this way, the reception can be done very adequately after identification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u19	I had another question concerning the reception of victims of trafficking in human beings or young people employed by networks on prostitution or theft, etc. We know this exists. It is also not always obvious in the care system to place these young people together with other young people who are sometimes also victims. Hence the question of whether a number of places in Flanders and Brussels can also be set up separately. There is already an Esperanto shelter in Wallonia where victims of trafficking can be taken care of. A young person with a Flemish guardian cannot be placed there. So there is also a need for reception in Flanders or Brussels. Then I have a very specific question. Can you, in consultation with the Communities, provide for stricter reception for the minor victims of traffickers so that they cannot just walk in and out of the country? That is what is really needed, in addition to the reception for ordinary unaccompanied minors who, fortunately, have not all fallen into the hands of traffickers. I would also like to respond to Mrs Smeyers. I think it should be the ambition to aim for 0 percent disappearances of young people at DVZ. For seventeen or eighteen-year-olds this is already less obvious, but for the 15-year-olds and 15-year-olds we should be able to evolve into a procedure with guidance, with a very short intake in a separate room with supervision and guidance. Surely it must be possible, Mrs Smeyers, that the young person does not disappear in one hour or two hours? That group of young people shouldn't disappear at DVZ anyway. Of course, it is possible that they may disappear afterwards, for example from the school, from a shelter or from elsewhere. In conclusion, Mrs Smeyers, I would like to say that we do not like to place the Voogdij service at DVZ; you know that. Both services work from a completely different perspective. I do call for good cooperation, which can certainly be improved in a number of areas. However, not everything can be delegated by or housed at DVZ. This is not the case in other asylum files either. One institution does one job, the other institution does another. As you know, there have already been discussions on this subject. Therefore, I do not think it is right to argue for this now in the light of a specific situation. That discussion was held, but we are not in favour of it and do not want to go along with it. In fact, there is no agreement on this in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u21	Mr President, I do not know how long the debate will last. There are also a lot of questions on the agenda. I think I have answered most of the questions. I will answer a few more questions and try to add a few more briefly. First of all, how's the person in question? He's doing relatively well right now. As I have already communicated, he has been assigned to a specialised centre in Wallonia, where he is in good hands and is given professional guidance. Hopefully that'll end well. He remains of course asking party to leave, so there is a lot of social work to be done by our experts and professionals in the centre in Wallonia. I am not going to give any further details about this for the sake of privacy and to keep away intrusive journalists and photographers, which I hope you understand. Secondly, I come to the question of whether it is better to do the identification after they are dropped off at a reception centre. It has been said that this is also happening in Norway. If we had done so in this case, the boy would have left immediately and we would not even have had fingerprints. We wouldn't have had anything to do with the person concerned. In this case that would certainly have been a very bad idea. We wouldn't even have taken a picture. If a very young unaccompanied minor is arrested and is immediately taken to an OOC or Minor-Ndako without passing through our service and through the Voogdij service and then released via Fedasil, then there is no information at all. The young people who want to leave immediately have therefore left immediately. So we have to be very careful about this. Third, about the taxi. The young people who arrive there must, of course, go to Lower-over-Heembeek. I can't give them a ticket, that wouldn't be wise. Transport must therefore be organised. That taxi service is a regular taxi service with people who do that day in, day out. They are, as it were, experts on the subject. So it's not every day a different taxi driver. It's framed. Does anyone have to accompany the kids in the taxi? It does not seem to me entirely illogical that the guardian, for example, should go along. Some say that people should be dropped off at the reception centre immediately, others say that they should be taken to the reception centre as soon as possible. Now, if there is a guardian designated by the Voogdij service, then at that time this person must physically move to Brussels to escort the young person to the shelter by taxi. You also understand that we are not going to keep anyone, and certainly not a nine-year-old child, waiting in DVZ's waiting room for twenty-four hours? Moreover, guardians must also record their permanence. This is an interesting conversation to have with the Minister responsible for the Voogdij department. We need to see if there's anyone else who can take it. I don't have a lot of staff at my disposal for that, but I'm sure I'll talk to Freddy Roosemont about that. You say there must be a timeline. I gave you the timing. In relation to the 162 disappearances mentioned by Child Focus, compared to the 448 disappearances, the procedure is as follows. In the event of a disappearance, the police or the public prosecutor will be informed. The chip is already being passed on to Child Focus at that time, but the parquet decides whether Child Focus is allowed to make the disappearance public. As far as the 448 disappearances are concerned, it is therefore not the case that the public prosecutor has always said to do something with them. In most cases, the parquet tells Child Focus not to disclose a disappearance. Therefore, there is a difference between the notified disappearances and the 162 disappearances that Child Focus has actually posted on the website and have been distributed on posters. Once again, if we make the registration watertight, even for the self-declared minors of 17 years old, we will be able to reach a figure much higher than 448, not because of the measures taken by this government, but because of better registration. Of course, there are also more unaccompanied minors in Belgium as a result of the 2015 asylum crisis. So the group has grown. There is therefore a need for better registration and I will make sure that this is done. The statistics must also be brought to a close, for which I will also take care. That is also on the agenda. You say I was reviewing the protocol back then. That's what I said. The protocol has been partially adapted and updated by the end of 2015. I said in committee that we were working on this, and that was the case. What we are talking about now is that the protocol should not be updated but extended. That's what we're gonna do. Will the officials stay with those young people? Yeah, they stay with those kids. Of course, we need fingerprints. Photofirings must be taken. We need a medical check-up. They go from one department to another, like anyone who goes to DVZ Registration. There's an interview going on. Those are specialized people who do this very conscientiously. Did something go wrong here? In my view, two things have gone wrong. If Fedasil's medical department brought him back to the waiting room, they should have informed the DVZ security people that they had brought the boy back and that he had to be watched. I don't think that's what happened. It was busy then, which allowed him to sneak out. That is resolved, in the sense that they will now be placed no longer on the ground floor but in a room on the first floor, under permanent supervision. That's even been in place since yesterday. A second mistake. If the younger was then gone, all services were notified, but DVZ, the Voogdij or Fedasil, one of three, did not notify the police. It's not always DVZ's fault. I know some people like to honk that around all the time. The most important thing, however, is that this has not happened and this cannot be repeated. If you want me to say publicly that a mistake has happened: yes, a mistake has happened. By the way, I've already said that publicly. That's what my top official said. I will repeat that as well. The most important thing is to learn from mistakes and make sure it doesn't happen again or never again. I have that commitment from my services, from the Foreign Office and the others. Action was also taken immediately to this end. I don't want to see that happen again. That is something that one would rather not wake up to on a Saturday morning, you understand. I think most of the cases have been answered. It's up to the juvenile court. Voogdij also plays an important role in this. They are therefore different partners; the Department of Foreign Affairs and Fedasil are also involved. I don't think it's a system error. I will get the answer, because at the moment Mr Roosemont is abroad. I still wonder why the police didn't just get a call. All services were notified: Fedasil, Voogdij, the care partner, but no one called the police. Is that pure oblivion? Did they not find it disturbing to disappear and did they not call the police? However, he is, self-proclaimed, nine years. It is said that he looks older than nine, but still: even if he is thirteen, it is still an alarming disappearance. That is not possible with me, I am absolutely not able to speak about it. As far as the competent official is concerned, it is clear, in my view, that there is an internal investigation going on; that is obvious, because this is not possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we have work on the table. Without falling into political games, I think we should play the ball briefly. This must not happen again, and we must do everything in our power to do so. It seems appropriate to me to check in a few months' time where we stand, what has been carried out, whether there is a new protocol. That way, we can follow up on that in addition. I am, of course, at Parliament's disposal to report back on this in November or December, so that you are also well informed. I understand that there will be a place visit where the services can also be talked to. I hope that all Members of this House will go there, because it will be interesting to talk to the people on the ground who can explain the procedure. I insist that there are many unaccompanied minors, vulnerable groups who are being treated in a very good way. There are hundreds of them a year. They are taken care of by all our employees, both from DVZ and Fedasil and from our support partners, such as Minor-Ndako and Esperanto, and from the Voogdij department. These are people who do this work day after day, with a huge social commitment for those vulnerable young people. We cannot do that for that wage if we do not have a huge social commitment. That's not possible. I would like to emphasise that. If you make that visit, I am sure you will see for yourself that this is happening in a very humane and good way, but missing is human and something like this must not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u22	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you are improving a number of things. That's good. However, I would like to clarify something. I said that it might be an idea to take the vulnerable young people first to the centre and from there to the Foreign Office. I have also mentioned that this is already happening today in a number of cases. I want you to find out why that happens one time and another time not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u23	On weekends or at night. Then there's a problem. I give an example of a very specific case. A drug addict 14- or 16-year-old was caught in a police operation and, for example, arrives at 3:00 a.m. Fedasil is absolutely not a asking party to bring it in on the weekends. The police see he's underage and can't get ahold of the Voogdij service. The permanence is not perfect there, also interesting to know. What does she do? She calls DVZ, where there's a 24/7 permanence and asks what to do with the minor. Either he is kept at the police station, which is not ideal either he is released, which is not ideal at all, or he is placed somewhere near Fedasil in an OOC. Fedasil is not at all a questioning party for that solution, because those young people come in at night, often under the influence. They come into a group at night, waking people up. They have to sleep in a dormitory or a room, with often stunned and against their will, because they don't want to go there. So when does this happen? At the moment when no registration is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u24	Just so we're clear, it's not a reproach. I'm just saying that it happens and that it's good... one can't say that one doesn't receive a 14-year-old under the influence so as not to disturb the others. Consideration should therefore be given to the reception of these specific cases, so that there is no inconvenience or problems for the other young people. Some young people who are already active as pimps or girls who are already in a prostitution network are arrested overnight as unaccompanied minors and brought in and exhibit the same behavior in the centre. These are very difficult cases where proper care is needed in a specialised centre. That is why I call for a sufficiently specialised offer, if necessary with separate living groups, in certain places that are being transformed. That's a possibility I'm asking you to take a look at for sure. I also talked about the young people being brought to DVZ, with guidance from the center. That's a possibility. It may be that someone doesn't have a guardian at the time. Suppose someone is found on the street at night, they have no guardian at that time and therefore no guardian can be called up. In this case, for example, it will be an employee of the care centre who supervises the younger person. That's what I argued for. It would be a good solution for the escort to go along, especially if the young person is taken to a shelter on weekends or at night. If this is not the case and the young person is taken directly to DVZ, then a DVZ official can take charge of the assistance. Then it is not just about supervision in a waiting room where 25 other unaccompanied minors are waiting. It must be more than supervision, it must also be a piece of guidance. That is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u25	Mr President, I will be a little shorter than my colleague Mr Lanjri. Mr Secretary of State, I do not quite understand that if 15-year-olds are taken directly to a reception centre, then there can be no registration with photo and name; fingerprinting is something else for me. If someone is taken into a shelter, I can imagine that at least someone is writing down who is coming in. So I would like to ask you to think about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, if I may, I will go right to the point. Very clearly, we see flaws, some of which are serious. The situation must therefore be taken seriously. You made commitments, Secretary of State. I'm waiting to see what's happening. We will then be able to address this issue again. I recall that signals had already been given in March 2016. You then indicated that you would review the procedures. We're here a year later. You're going to have to take vigorous action. Otherwise, I fear that we will rest the question in a few months about these worrying flaws. These are children in danger. The situation must be seen as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, I still have a number of questions. I think we are struggling a little with the question of how we can improve the first reception of such young people, so that they feel more comfortable and less need to walk away. That first line could be with the police, DVZ or a shelter. Personally, I believe that fingerprinting should be done as soon as possible. I have doubts about the slope of leaving those involved in a reception centre where no fingerprints can be taken. I do believe that we should improve the reception, guidance and framework at DVZ, where fingerprints are taken. This could possibly be done by better training civil servants for this purpose. Perhaps specialized staff should also be recruited and, if necessary, a guardian should be appointed, if possible. You did not answer my question, first of all, about the reception at DVZ. You understand that such a younger person can be suspicious of public services. How can we improve that? Do you have any ideas about that? Secondly, DVZ did not notify the police in this particular case. Was this the practice in the past? Thirdly, from your introduction, I did not quite understand the protocol. Is it about a global protocol at DVZ or protocols per shelter? How's that right? Are there any guidelines? Is there a protocol at DVZ that states how DVZ should deal with such disappearances?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u28	Mr President, I have no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I would have insisted in my questions: if young people are transferred to DVZ, it is particularly important that everything should proceed very quickly. If everything goes to an hour or two, there's no problem. These young people must be given priority over others. We need to act quickly. I hope this happens. You yourself said just now that the young people will be taken to the shelter during the weekend, because they will not be able to go to DVZ. However, no fingerprints can be taken at the reception centre. For the vulnerable groups or for those who are found during the weekend and are brought to a centre, especially for the vulnerable group, I would like them to be brought to the centre with guidance if necessary. In my opinion, there are other possibilities, including with regard to fingerprinting. After all, one can now take a lot of fingerprints with a smartphone. Perhaps for those cases that go to the centres on weekends, one should check whether it is not possible to take a picture, to write down the name and to take preliminary fingerprints via a smartphone. It's possible these days. One must be able to develop something, temporarily, in anticipation of going to DVZ. Otherwise they will have to organise a permanence, so that fingerprints can be taken at DVZ during the weekend too, but that seems very difficult and very expensive to me. So maybe an app is a better tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u30	There is a protocol, but not with regard to DVZ in itself. DVZ co-signed that, but it's not about arriving at DVZ. That must therefore be extended. I'll get you the protocol so you can read it yourself. The police usually get notified when a teenager walks between lunch break at DVZ. Just so we're clear, that doesn't happen often. That's why I really want to know how it happened in this case. I find it incomprehensible. Was it a purely administrative human oblivion, a mistake? Mr Roosemont is abroad, but I'll see him on Monday. I will certainly ask him the question, because I am very curious about it. In the meantime, he's already been able to talk to his people. The suggestion of using the smartphone will certainly be taken with me as soon as the task force gets together. On your recommendation, I will gladly contact my colleague Vandeurzen, who, like my Walloon colleague, is competent in relation to the Esperant talk. It is certainly useful to have that on the Flemish side as well. However, that is not within my competence and it does not imply my resources either, but I will certainly contact my colleague, Mr Vandeurzen, with your regards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u31	I have another question about the Fast Track procedure or the procedure as short as possible, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u32	If I understand correctly, you will make a place call. So you'll see the people at the MINTEH station. Young people, teenagers, are very friendly and humanly welcomed there. You'll see for yourself. It's about trained staff and they're used to it. Of course, first contact with a government is always a bit scared. Young people involved also come from the police, which is not always obvious. Once again, you will meet our people at the MINTEH office and you will find that they know what they are doing and that everything is going very well. In any case, this group is treated as a priority, according to the Fast Track Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u33	Then how come sometimes it takes a whole day? I don't understand. There are 12 year olds who spent a whole day there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u34	The person concerned arrived at 11:00 and was treated immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u35	I'm not talking about this guy. I'm talking about other cases that have also been reported to me. There are 12 year olds who spent a whole day there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u36	If 20 young people come in, it will indeed take longer than if one comes alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u37	This is a very specific question, which we may be able to ask on the spot. This will enable us to close this exchange of views, which has taken a little longer than I had estimated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I tabled this question on 2 May. Articles in the press and academic papers show that the situation of some 23 000 unaccompanied minors in hotspots in Italy and Greece is very worrying. A report by the European Court of Auditors also mentions a problematic situation for minors in the hotspots. There are reports of exploitation, sexual abuse, de facto detention, etc. It would be twenty thousand children in Italy and three thousand children in Greece. Mr Secretary of State, will there be an initiative at European level to respond urgently to this unacceptable and poignant humanitarian situation for those children without parents? What will you do, how will you plead for it? Secondly, apart from the European level, what can Belgium itself do? Through an open letter, I have suggested that you take action on your own initiative and bring a thousand children here. This fits perfectly within the relocation quotas to which you have committed yourself. Are you willing to do that? Why is that, or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u39	Mr De Vriendt, there is specific support at European level for unaccompanied minors through EASO and the AMIF funds. The reception of the NBMV in the hotspots is the responsibility of the Member State where the hotspots are present. In the case of hotspots, this means Greece and Italy. However, there is a degree of solidarity among the other EU Member States through the relocation mechanism, with special attention being paid to the NBMV. Belgium, for example, systematically offers 10% of the pledges for the relocation of unaccompanied minors in both Greece and Italy. However, these places are not always filled in, due to different causes. Finland has made a strong commitment to the NBMV, which means that the reserve of available NBMV is greatly reduced before departure. They're almost all in Finland. There are also problems with, for example, minor married NBMV for whom a long search for a legal basis in Greece was made. Furthermore, many registered NBMV had already been in the hotspots for seventeen years and thus quickly became of age. Many NBMV are also linked to family members in other European Member States and are then proposed to the countries concerned. Furthermore, the European Commission has recently published a list of priority actions for the protection of children in migration. It refers to quick identification and protection upon arrival, whereby child protection officers should be appointed in each hotspot. Children must also always be treated as a priority within the migration process, including within the relocation mechanism. Within the designated relocation program there is currently little space. Only nationalities with a degree of recognition higher than 75% at EU level are eligible for the relocation programme. In practice, Syria and Eritrea are involved. Belgium does not avoid its responsibility within the relocation programme in relation to unaccompanied minors. On the contrary, the monthly relocation requests for files to Greece and Italy still reserve 10% of the places specifically for this group, as I said earlier. However, both the Greek and Italian authorities cannot meet our country's demand. To date, only a handful of NBMV files have been received from Greece. No file has yet been received from Italy. Internal administrative obstacles block the mechanism. Within the relocation programme, nationalities such as Afghans, Bangladeshi, Nigerians and so on are not eligible. The largest group of NBMV still in Greece and in the media cannot be eligible for relocation. They are the responsibility of the Greek and Italian services. However, we also provide direct and indirect support, including through the use of asylum and reception experts. As mentioned earlier, I will continue to consult with my Italian and Greek colleagues in order to see how we can ensure that the Belgian offer of places for MENA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u40	What an official answer that was, really. There are 23 000 children there without parents, in distressing circumstances, and you are calling for all kinds of reasons not to make any extra efforts. I don't understand that! We are talking about a country in the European Union. We are also talking about Belgium, where there is a lot of reception capacity or can be released in the short term. By the way, you have proven this in the past. Other countries do better in terms of relocation than Belgium. Belgium is only at 15% of the promised relocations that are also being carried out. We're not doing well, far from it. If you still want to play it on the rating of 75 %. You want to leave the rest in those camps, because even though they are children and they are in dire circumstances, they have little chance of recognition. That's your reasoning. I take note of that. However, I am going along with that reasoning. Then there are 2 500 Syrian, Afghan or Iraqi children. These are children whose degree of recognition is 75% or higher. There's no solution for that 2 500. You're giving an official answer. You pretend there is a solution with excuses and so on, but there is no solution to these children, still no solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u41	You speak of an official answer, but you must listen to what I say. 10 % is reserved for relocation. I'll get my relocation target and I'll get them. Ten percent is reserved for NBMV, but it hasn't been filled in for months. I haven't received a single file from the Italians, not one for unaccompanied underage foreigners. You jump and dance with all sorts of numbers over and over again, but come up with proof! If I don't get them from the Italians, what am I supposed to do? Maybe I should go get them myself on a plane or on buses? Is that Green's proposal, perhaps? That is not how it works bilaterally, Mr De Vriendt. I know you have no experience; that's not how it works. We are meeting with the Greek and Italian colleagues, with whom I have very good contact. We offer a place for relocation to 10 % unaccompanied underage foreigners. You say they're 2,300 and you blame us for not doing anything. But they don't offer them. What's your solution? You have to listen to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u42	Then why do other countries succeed in relocating more than Belgium? That is the question and it has not been answered at all. Other countries manage better than Belgium to do the relocation. Belgium is stuck at 15%, so your excuse that it is the Greek and Italian authorities is wrong. Other countries also depend on these authorities and manage to provide better scores on relocation. By the way, go there and catch those kids!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u43	Mr De Vriendt, this is not an exchange of views or a topical debate. According to the Rules of Procedure, that must be concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u44	I repeat: however, these places are not always filled in, due to different causes. Have you listened, Mr De Vriendt?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u45	I had the floor. Go there, along with the UN refugee organisation, and indeed offer protection to a fair number of those children. That's not so hard, is it? Just do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u46	We have heard that in Mechelen an apartment block of Caritas has suddenly been evacuated, so that several asylum seekers suddenly had to move to Fedasil's reception infrastructure. In a number of cases, these are families who have lived in Mechelen for years, whose children go to school there and who now have to move to Antwerp. First of all, why is Caritas' shelter in Mechelen suddenly being evacuated? Secondly, has the cooperation between Caritas and Fedasil suddenly stopped? If so, what is the reason for this? Does that only apply to Mechelen or to the whole country? Thirdly, has the situation of the children of the families concerned been taken into account? Suddenly moving has an impact on their school career, as well as on their social environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u47	The Reception Convention with Refugee Work Flanders expires on 30 June. In this context, a number of reception places covered by the Convention are closed, including reception places managed by Caritas, such as in Mechelen. The direct cooperation between Fedasil and Caritas concerning other reception structures is not stopped. School children were always transferred during the Easter holidays as part of the phase-out or closure. Taking into account available places in the reception network, efforts will always be made to ensure the continuity of education and school careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, you know our fundamental criticism of this. There are few reasons to close reception structures if they are not empty. After all, forced relocation of families, especially with children, always has an impact. So try to avoid that. Actions have been undertaken by civil society organisations. Harrowing cases have been reported. So you should answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, on Tuesday 11 April the press relayed the new report of the Federal Centre Migration, very critical of the way in which Belgium treats illegal passengers discovered by the captains of ships moored in the ports of Antwerp, Ghent, Zeebrugge, Blankenberge and Ostend-Nieuport. According to the independent public institution, the rights of these persons are violated while the country does not have a specific legislation regulating this subject. The Federal Agency reminds the State that passengers present on territorial waters have entered the territory of a Member State and are therefore subject to the European acquis on asylum. Belgium must ensure that information on the possibility of applying for asylum is provided to illegal passengers and that an interpretation service is provided to them. I would like to ask you the following questions, Mr Franken. Has the Secretary of State been able to draw any conclusions from this report? To what extent is follow-up planned? Will the recommendations contained therein lead to concrete actions, projects or initiatives? Are you in favour of establishing a legal framework to regulate this subject and, if so, can you specify the content and timetable that it would involve? How many illegal passengers have been found in Belgian ports since 2014 until today? How many have applied for asylum? How many of them have been granted political refugee status? What is the procedure followed when an illegal passenger is found? What are the instructions applicable to all Belgian ports that have been received by the police? Is there adequate legal and administrative support and reception for illegal passengers? If yes which, and if not, why? I will table a motion of recommendation at the end of this inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u50	In its report, Myria requested that these recommendations be considered. The administrations concerned are going to do something about it. Legislation in this area already exists. Articles 45, 45a and 46 of the Act of 5 June 1928 amending the Disciplinary and Penal Code for Merchant Shipping and Maritime Fisheries, published in the Belgian Moniteur on 26 July 1928, apply. In addition, the Schengen Border Code provides, in point 3.e.1.4 of its Annex 6, that, however, illegal passengers remain under the responsibility of the master. Disembarkation of the illegal passenger is possible with the authorization of the Federal Police under certain conditions, in particular for medical or humanitarian reasons or in the context of an asylum application. Article 5 of the Law of 5 June 1928 on the Revision of the Disciplinary Code stipulates that the master shall have the authority over every person on board his ship to maintain order for the safety of the ship, persons and cargo and for the proper conduct of the voyage. Consequently, the ban on landing is a legal consequence of international provisions. If necessary, the master may appeal to the local authorities. The federal police authority responsible for maritime police may require the master to re-board the illegal passenger when it is found that the latter is living in inhumane conditions. The fact that the person concerned is under the responsibility of the master does not de facto mean that it is a deprivation of liberty. The master is therefore required to report the presence of one or more illegal passengers on board his vessel. A list of illegal passengers signed by the master and stamped by the vessel shall be returned to the anchorage. The Navigation Police is a complete record for every illegal passenger, including a report of the person and his/her fingerprints. If an illegal passenger applies for asylum, the Agency shall be notified immediately by means of an informed administrative report. Where appropriate, Annex 25 shall be notified and the person concerned shall be transferred to a specific place at the border in accordance with the Aliens Act. During the processing of the asylum application, the ship is not blocked but the shipowner must pay a security of EUR 25 000 in order for the removal to be carried out at the expense of the latter if the asylum application results in a definitive refusal. Care should therefore be taken to provide accompaniment and reception. Before talking to the illegals, it is also ensured that they are detained in a humane manner by the maritime police. The figures for illegal passengers are as follows: in 2015, 20, in 2016, 12, in 2017, 0. During these years, no illegal passenger has applied for asylum. Clandestine passengers who wish to do so may apply for legal assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u51	The incident is closed, Mr. President. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers and I table a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u52	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, recommends to the Government - to play an active role at the international level in establishing a new system that is both more practical for maritime operators and offers greater guarantees for the illegal passenger; - in the event that the authorities continue to allow the detention of illegal passengers in ships located in Belgian ports, it is regulated by legislation providing adequate guarantees, in particular concerning the deprivation of liberty, the conditions of detention and the rights of detained illegal passengers, the mechanisms of appeal, complaints and control of detention, a monitoring of the manner in which the refoulement takes place and the treatment of the illegal passenger upon arrival by the authorities of the country of destination; - to incorporate into the law the obligation to systematically hand over a decision to the illegal passenger concerning access to the territory (refoulement) and possible deprivation of liberty, as well as information about his rights in an understood language; - that the illegal passenger is informed of the possibility of applying for international protection and the possibility of receiving protection as a victim of trafficking or aggravated trafficking in human beings; - the police should call on the collaborators of the centres specializing in trafficking when there are indications of exploitation and when they can have access to ships to assist potential victims in order to better detect and punish those responsible for trafficking in human beings. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, advises the government - play an active role at international level to develop a new system that is more workable for ship operators and provides better safeguards for stowawaying; - in so far as public authorities would continue to allow stowaways to be detained on ships located in Belgian ports, to draw up a legislative text relating to that detention which provides appropriate guarantees, in particular as regards the detention of liberty, the conditions of detention and the rights of the stowaways detained, the mechanisms for appealing, the lodging of a complaint and the control of detention, the monitoring of the progress of the withdrawal and the treatment of stowaways by authorities upon arrival in the country of destination, - to include in the law the obligation to systematically serve the stowaway a decision on access to the territory (driving back), any deprivation of liberty, and information on his rights in a language which he understands; - that the stowaway would be informed of the possibility of applying for international protection and the possibility of enjoying protection as victims of trafficking in human beings or more serious forms of smuggling; - that the police would call on staff from the specialised centres for victims of trafficking in human beings if there are indications of exploitation, and that they would have access to the ships to assist potential victims in order to better detect and punish those responsible for trafficking in human beings. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Sarah Smeyers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, until the age of 18, as we know, MENAs placed under the supervision of Belgian citizens cannot be expelled. As soon as they reach their majority, the situation changes at all, leaving the foster families often as desperate as the ward entrusted to them. I am reminded of several echoes of young people who have been present in the territory for many years receiving an order to leave the territory in the days following their 18th birthday. To this humanly difficult situation, we must also add conditions of reception to the service of foreigners which seem to me to be a matter of degrading treatment. I note in particular the following: summonses are sent for a specific day and time, without this appointment necessarily being honoured by the service (convocation at 08:00, then waiting for sometimes three hours before receiving a new summons on another date, without a word of explanation or excuse). The persons summoned are searched before being admitted to a waiting room whose hygiene would be questionable. The security officers, according to various testimonies, seem to be exempted from the most elementary politeness towards the summoned applicants, communicating with them only by haggling heads, not to mention a simple "hello", when it is not serious reflections exchanged between agents of the kind "many women, today, no doubt a promotion: one bought 3 free", etc. That's what I've been told. It is, of course, an attitude that shames our conception of public service, of which these people are users like others. Mr Secretary of State, in our view, in the absence of a policy of welcoming foreigners to our territory, it seems to me that showing the most basic humanity should not be insurmountable for a country like ours. Have you also been aware of any such evidence with regard to the reception of foreigners in the service which concerns them? What are the instructions given to officers with regard to the attitude to be taken towards applicants who present themselves? What are the convocation practices that lead people to have to represent themselves several times before actually obtaining the interview for which they are called? What control measures have been taken against officers in contact with the public in this context? Are blind tests conducted? What are the possibilities of filing complaints for those who have to undergo these behaviours? Finally, particularly in the case of MENA which has become major, what are the processing times for regularization applications? What is the average time between their majority and invitations to leave the Territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u54	I haven't received any complaints about that. In my opinion, the mayor is the person best placed to receive the complaint from foreigners who feel that they have not been properly treated. Indeed, I do not have to give them instructions or analyse these complaints. For the Office of Foreigners, it is technically impossible to calculate the requested time limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u55	I'm surprised, Mr. Secretary of State. Have you had any complaints against the Office of Foreigners about this type of situation? All right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u56	We will contact Mrs Lambrecht to find out if she is still coming for her question. 18234.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u57	Mr. Secretary of State, on the website of the Council of Foreigners' Contests, it is stated that on 1 June 2017, the Dutch-speaking President of the RvV was transferred to deputy mandate. The holder of the deputy mandate of President shall be appointed by the King for a term of five years in accordance with the Stay Act. The mandate shall be renewable once. The President shall be appointed from among the members of the Council appointed as a judge in foreign affairs or from the Council of State for at least five years. We noticed that the nomination had to be made by registered letter addressed to Mr T. Francken, State Secretary, Lambermontstraat, at the latest on 21 April 2017. In addition to their nominations, the candidates had to add a letter of motivation, as well as their vision on the management of the Council for Foreigners' Contests and their curriculum vitae. As far as we understand it, the procedure is not governed by the law. So there seems to be a gap. For the appointment of the first President, for example, for which there was also a vacancy, the procedure has been clearly determined by law. Here it is the general meeting of the RV who makes a presentation, after which the appointment is normally made at KB. How is the justification required for this designation determined? What do you consider to be a suitable resume? Does the required vision of the management of the RvV necessarily fit in with your vision? What is seen here as an appropriate vision on the management of the RV? How will you ensure that the indication is made in the most objective way possible? What is the further procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u58	The Law of 15 December 1980 does not currently provide for a procedure for the appointment of the President of the Council for Foreign Affairs Disputes. Contrary to what you claim, however, this is not a loophole in the law. When this law was drafted by the Verhofstadt II Government, it was deliberately chosen to apply a detailed procedure for the election of the first chairman by the general assembly in that law, but not to prescribe that procedure for the appointment of a chairman. During the interview with the various candidates for the chair I was assisted by an advisory committee consisting of experts. They gave me their advice. I will make my decision on the basis of that advice. The following experts were involved: Ms Isabelle Mazzara, Chairman of the Management Committee of the FPS Interior, Mr Marc Bossuyt, Emeritus of the Constitutional Court, Emeritus Professor of the UA and former Commissioner-General for Refugees and stateless persons. I have also been assisted by the first chairman, Mr Bodart, who has nominated the RV. As a reminder, the first chairman himself was elected by the General Assembly of the RV, on the basis of his policy plan. Pursuant to Article 39/6 of the Law of 15 December 1980, the first chairman is responsible for drawing up that policy plan and, in close cooperation with the chairman, distributes the tasks and activities between himself and the chairman according to what is laid down in that plan. In view of the need for conciliation, I think it would be desirable to involve the first President. By the way, I'll make my decision next day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u59	Excuse me, Mr President, but I don't understand that rushing. I will wait for the report to know what the answer to the question has been. It's hard for me to respond if I didn't understand the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u60	Then shut it down while I'm at it. I'll try to articulate better next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of the extraordinary Council of Ministers on 14 May, you announced your intention to increase the number of places in closed centres to 1,066. To do this, besides the extension of the 127bis, you propose the creation of two centres, in Antwerp and Jumet. While my group considers that return procedures are part of a fair and humane asylum and immigration policy, it does not think that this aspect is an end in itself or even the main objective of such a policy. The expansion of the number of places in closed centres represents a high cost, but it is also a special signal sent to migrants, associations and, more generally, to all those who care about the fate of foreigners present in the territory. In addition, your announcement raises many questions. What amounts will be allocated for the extension of the 127a and the construction of the two centres and their management costs? Does the installation of these new centres imply that, as part of your return policy, you are considering using nearby airports? Would this lead to specific security measures? So far, places of deprivation of liberty are mainly located in the vicinity of Brussels-National Airport. What should be understood of the announcement of these settlements in Flanders and Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u62	Mr Kir, the cost of extending the number of places in closed centres and opening centres is less than the social cost of illegality. Moreover, these additional centres will create many direct and indirect jobs. As I have already indicated, I would like the order to leave the territory no longer to be a mere piece of paper, but an order to which the illegal resident responds spontaneously or voluntarily. Otherwise, a forced return will be arranged. These additional places as well as the new centres offer my services the opportunity to carry out these measures. In the "closed centres" masterplan, approximate estimates are provided for both the cost of construction and the cost of operation. Currently, the Régie des Bâtiments is conducting an in-depth review of the files. Both construction and personnel costs will be funded from existing appropriations. I have instructed that the construction costs of the centres should be kept to the lowest possible level, by demonstrating inventiveness, for example by opting for the resumption of the Tilburg prison, which the Dutch authorities have made available free of charge to Belgium. On the other hand, I want to stress that the development of additional capacity in closed centres is part of the government agreement. I now turn to the use of nearby airports. In collaboration with the federal police, we are examining the possibility of more active operation of Charleroi airport in the context of return operations. The project is still at an embryonic stage and I cannot tell you what the additional operating costs and infrastructure costs will be. Appropriate collaboration has been planned with the federal police to ensure the optimal conduct of return operations. With regard to places of deprivation of liberty, I would like to point out that there will also be centres in Bruges, Merksplas and Vottem. These centres are not located near an airport that could be used for return operations. It is not unusual to set up centres in places that are not near an airport. In addition, the centre of Jumet is located next to Belgium's second airport. Zandvliet's choice is due to the specific nature of the move from Tilburg prison to Belgium and a request from Antwerp has existed since 2008. I come to contact with the local authorities. There were contacts with them in the framework of the masterplan "closed centres", even after the proposal in the Council of Ministers of 14 May. I am making every effort to properly inform the cities and municipalities concerned, and it works very well. We are working hard to obtain the necessary town planning permits in order to achieve the masterplan. All required records are in preparation. I want to point out here that the initial request was to get agreement in principle from the government and only then to involve the services in the implementation. As for the agenda, the complementary capacity will be achieved in the next three to four years. As far as the action plan is concerned, the schemes in closed centres will still have to be determined. The intention is to create a new individual regime for difficult cases in Zandvliet. In principle, the regime of the other new centres will be collective. The necessary resources will be released to organise the operation of the centres in an optimal manner. You're talking about amalgam. I don't see why it would create an amalgam. Refugees are not locked up in closed centres. Those in illegal residence who have failed to comply with orders to leave the territory will be so. The return of criminals and terrorists remains a priority of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u63	Mr Franken, did you quote the amounts for the extension of the 127bis and for the creation of the two centres, or did that escape me?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u64	Excuse me, I didn't. The budget of the Régie des Bâtiments is EUR 4 million for the expansion of the 127bis centre in Steenokkerzeel; EUR 400 000 for Holsbeek; EUR 11 million for Zandvliet near Antwerp; and EUR 22.5 million for Charleroi.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u65	Interpellation No. 220 by Mrs. Isabelle Poncelet has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, recently in May there was a fuss about the document containing new guidelines which DVZ sent to the municipal authorities. The Directives set out how to deal with the right of residence of children born of foreign parents with different status of residence. These are situations where both parents have a residence status, for example one permanent residence status and the other a residence status for a limited period. There is also the situation where one parent has a residence permit, while the other parent has no residence permit and is therefore illegally resident on the territory. Those directives to the municipalities show that DVZ wants to change this. In the past, the procedure was that the child always followed the position of the parent with the most advantageous residence status. From now on, however, a family reunification procedure should always be introduced, creating an uncertain situation for the child. This uncertain situation has also charged child rights commissioner Bernard De Vos. A child bears the consequences of that uncertainty. Even if the child is only temporarily without a residence permit, it does not have access to health care, for example. When medical complications appear, it can cause serious problems. Moreover, it is not entirely clear to me why this change has taken place. After all, if a purely different procedure is to be followed in order to give the child the residence permit effectively, albeit through the family reunification procedure, it seems to me to be an additional burden and additional work for both parents and the competent services. Firstly, is it true that a new directive was delivered to the municipal authorities? In the meantime, I have got hold of the directive, which I asked for in the written version of my question. Secondly, what is the motivation or motivation to change the procedure? Why does DVZ impose on children born in our country from foreign parents, one of whom does not have a legal residence permit, a family reunification procedure? This will not lead to unnecessary work, because even a woman who is legally resident here must start a family reunification procedure after giving birth to the declaration. I find that very strange. If that woman has a legal residence status here, but not her partner, it makes sense for the child to be recognised, since she is the mother. In the case of a man, there may still be doubts about a possible false recognition. We discussed this yesterday. I fully support our approach to false recognition. But the fact that a woman with a legal residence permit cannot simply register her child and she has to follow a new family reunification procedure seems very bizarre to me. After all, how do you estimate these adverse effects on the child? After the start of the recognition procedure, a period of several weeks or months will follow in which the child is illegally resident in our country. Is it not better to avoid this, as the child will most likely be able to stay in our country after the family reunification procedure, especially when it comes to a mother with a legal residence status? I'd like to get some clarification. I read the letter. If both parents do have a residence permit, they are apparently registered on their own initiative. Can you confirm that there should be no family reunification procedure in such cases? However, a family reunification procedure must be initiated if one of the parents is legally resident in the country and the other is illegal. How is this to be done if the mother is legally resident in the country? I find it absurd that, when a mother is legally resident here, she should initiate a family reunification procedure for her child.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u67	It is true that the Foreign Affairs Office has published an info sheet on the municipal web page. The sheet of 4 May is not normative. The aim is to ensure that the residence status of a child born in Belgium is determined in a coherent manner in the best interests of the child. For the sake of transparency, the information sheet will be published on the DVZ site after some changes to clarify the text. However, I can summarize the sheet as follows. Firstly, when the parents are legally resident in Belgium at the time of the child's birth and their residence status is identical, that status is granted to the child. The municipality registers the child without any formality in the foreign register or the birth register. Secondly, if the parents are legally resident in Belgium at the time of the child's birth but their residence status is not identical, the most favourable status is granted without any other formalities to the child whose parents live together. If the parents do not live together, the status of the parent with whom the child is staying shall be granted to the child. The municipality registers the child without any other formalities in the foreign register or population register. This procedure is more flexible than that prescribed by the Foreign Law. A formal application should always be made. We do not do that now; the granting of the statute is almost automatic without any other formalities. You say that such cases should not be included in the figures on family reunifications, because they are not real family reunifications. They are therefore counted among family reunifications, because this is the strongest residence status for the child in Europe. For my figures on family reunification, therefore, I should actually make two tables, the ones with and without, because that saves 13 000 to 20 000 files, really a lot. Anyway, we talked about that last time. You certainly have a point: it is in the best interests of the child to grant the strongest status. Thirdly, in all other cases, the municipality may collect the child's personal data in the National Register. This collection of data makes it possible to identify the child and to provide access to health care. However, this does not mean that the child has a right of residence. The parent exercising parental authority must therefore take a formal step in the name of the child and apply for a right of residence or an authorisation to stay for more than three months in Belgium in the light of the circumstances in which the person concerned is situated. DVZ has taken the initiative to draw up this sheet because the status of a child born in Belgium is not governed by any specific provision. The parents of this child should therefore at least follow the procedure laid down in the Law of 15 December 1980 applicable to their own situation. Over the years, the municipalities to which a child born in Belgium was asked to subscribe have developed different practices. These different treatments lead to legal uncertainty and discrimination, as well as mistakes and abuse that the child himself may be the victim of. I am thinking in particular of the fact that a parent who is looking for a residence document uses young children, the so-called document babies, but also young adults who are faced with administrative problems because no government has ever ruled on their residence status. The National Register therefore does not mention the reason for their stay in Belgium. The various treatments in the municipalities have led to the emergence of false beliefs. The fact that the personal data of a child born in Belgium are collected in the National Register does not mean that the child has the right to stay in Belgium. This confusion between the collection of data and the right of residence has an important effect. It is possible that a parent thinks that his child has a right of residence because his personal data were collected in the National Register and does not take any steps to ensure it. However, most municipalities do not fill in the section 202 of the National Register concerning the reason for staying, or no longer do, when they collect the personal data of a child. This section shall be filled in when the application for residence submitted in the name of the child is accepted. However, an acceptance is not possible without an application. Consequently, there is no reason to stay under heading 202. The status of the child in Belgium is therefore precarious, which, of course, is not the intention. Having entered the child's personal data into the National Register, the municipality will now inform the parent exercising parental authority over the child of the fact that the application for residence must be submitted in accordance with a procedure chosen by him. Regardless of the procedure chosen, a simple and reasoned letter addressed to the mayor of the municipality of residence is sufficient. DVZ will assume that the child's birth in Belgium is an exceptional circumstance justifying the submission of his application in Belgium. DVZ will examine the application as soon as possible because it is in the best interest of the child to determine his residence status as soon as possible. If an expulsion measure is envisaged in relation to the illegally staying parent, DVZ will always take into account the greater importance of the child and his right to a family life before taking a decision in accordance with Article 74/13 of the Law of 15 December 1980. Many children currently have a precarious residence status, but this is not known because the collection of data in the National Register and the right of residence are usually confused. DVZ does not waive the collection of data as this makes it possible to identify the child and provide access to healthcare. In the interests of the child born in Belgium, I want to determine the exact status of the child in Belgium in a coherent manner from now on, as soon as one of the parents does not legally reside in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u68	I understand, Mr Secretary of State, category A and B, category C in part. I understand your concern that registration in the population register alone is not enough to have a right of residence. Why has there been a change from the past? I would like to give an example of the situation of a mother with legal residence, who is having a child from someone who is staying illegally. Then I'm not talking about family reunification, because that's something else. I'm talking purely about her child. That child also has a right of residence, so why is it not provided for in the compulsory registration, as you do for category B? In this way, family reunification can be requested on its own initiative. That's what you can do there, isn't it? You're sure about that woman, aren't you? If it is the mother of that child, should you not say that a family reunification procedure should be initiated? I understand that caution is needed for the fathers, but for the mothers, I don't understand that if that mother is legal here. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u69	There were different treatments in the municipalities and this led to the emergence of different practices. In that sense, we are trying to standardize it. It was decided that for this category not only a registration is required, but that there is also more explanation for the reason for staying, also in the National Register with code 202. We've unified it for everyone. That's why.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u70	I understand this is being unified. The text states that if one of the parents is legally resident here, and the other is illegal at the time of birth: "The child is not immediately registered." Parents must apply for family reunification for the child. This requires a more nuanced approach: if the mother is legally resident here, the child can still be registered. One cannot make it impossible to register a child of a legally resident mother. This is already different for children of a Belgian mother, but for someone from a third country who is legally resident, it is necessary to do so. I don't have a problem with uniforming, but one has to make the right decision. You should also say, as in category 1 in the text, that children whose mother does have a residence permit are automatically registered. There's been a mistake. I have no problem with harmonisation, but this is far too short. Here we are asking for family reunification for everyone, which is not necessary for a child whose mother is legally resident in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u71	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u72	I suggest, Mrs Lanjri, that you take other actions to make your point or to change business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u73	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière (Commission); Mr Crusnière; Mr Crusnière; Mr Crusnière; Mr Crusnière; Mr Crusnière; Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of this year, the deadline for complying with the commitments made by the Member States of the European Union two years ago to spread 160 000 asylum seekers from the Member States at the external borders among the other Member States. According to the European agreements, Belgium had to transfer or relocate a total of 2 415 asylum seekers from Greece and 1 397 asylum seekers from Italy. These are asylum seekers from countries with a high risk of recognition. In concrete terms, this means a minimum level of protection of 75%. The targets are unlikely to be met, because not enough people meet the strict level of recognition of 75%. However, there has been no official updating of the figures. In the 12th However, the European Commission's progress report on this subject calls on Belgium to significantly increase its monthly commitments or pledges. I quote: "In this sense, Belgium, Spain and Croatia should significantly increase their monthly pledges for Italy and Greece." So we're getting a little pissed off after all. Our country still has a lot of asylum seekers to honour the agreements made. Hopefully we can do the same. I myself have recently been in refugee camps in Lesbos and previously in Catania in Italy, and I have been able to take stock of the situation there. In Greece, in any case, there are a lot of asylum seekers who are eligible for relocation in the short term. They are actually waiting for their departure, for an offer from the EU Member States. If we allow these people to happen, we must, of course, also give them a place in our reception structures. In 2015, we had to increase the number of reception places. Afterwards a reduction started again because the inflow fortunately went down and came back to the normal level. I support that, too. There is no way to keep open places that are empty. In the meantime, however, we can see that the capacity utilisation rate, of course partly due to the phase-out which has already been achieved, is very high: 82% of the seats are filled in the collective centres, which sometimes amounts to 92 %. We must, of course, also take account of the asylum seekers who will still be coming from Greece and Italy. We need to be able to catch these people. I'll come to my questions. Will Belgium still be doing pledges in the framework of the European distribution plan this year? If so, how many persons will that be? Will Belgium comply with its commitments? What numbers do you want to get? Is it the original 3 813 or has another figure been determined which has been adjusted downwards? Is that supposed to be off the record if we have to take down fewer people? If so, where? Are our reception structures ready for these people? What effect will this have on the further reduction of the number of reception places? Do you, for example, have to slow down the phasing-out to ensure that you have enough seats for those who come from Greece and Italy? Will there possibly be places at certain times and certain locations? I think it is advisable not to take down a number of places and take them into account. How long do people who are relocating to Belgium usually stay in the reception structures? When do they move on to their own housing, for which they have to vouch for themselves or together with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u75	Madam President, on 8 December the European Commission published its eighth report on relocation and resettlement. In that report, the Commission indicated...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u76	Mr Secretary of State, can you speak a little slower, otherwise you will not be able to translate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u77	Translate? I speak Dutch, don't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u78	Yes, but there are also people present who speak French.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u79	... to transfer anyone eligible for relocation by the end of September 2017, if all Member States together transfer at least 3 000 persons per month from December 2016. According to the same report, the number of transfers should increase from April 2017 to 4 500 transfers per month. If these figures were to be met, 42 000 people would be spread across all countries by the end of September 2017. It is important to add that in December 2016 the Commission was unable to report exactly how many persons would be eligible for relocation. Since April 2017, we have a clear figure for Greece, but still not for Italy. As fewer persons are eligible for the relocation programme than initially envisaged, the number of transfers for Belgium was adjusted downwards. The initial figure of 3 812, 3.95 % of 106 000 persons was adjusted to 1 510, 3.59 % of 42 000 persons. The goal is to transfer a total of 1,510 persons to Belgium in the period 2015-2017, which is the share that Belgium would have to make if the European Commission's forecasts of December 2016 were to be followed. In the period 2015-2016 530 people were pledged. This means that a thousand more people will have to be pledged in 2017. In early 2017, it was decided with all the actors involved to work for Belgium with male pledges of 100 people. In August and September a pledge would be sent out for 150 people. In 2017, five pledges of each 100 people were already done, bringing the total to 1 030. 620 people have already been transferred. Preparations are under way for the next 400 people. A next pledge of 100 people took place in early June 2017. Although national quotas were established in the 2015 relocation decision on the basis of a percentage per Member State, only absolute numbers are included in the text. For this reason, it is impossible to officially adjust national quotas, although it is clear that the number of asylum seekers to be displaced is many times smaller than initially envisaged. With these adjusted quotas, our country keeps its share of the total European effort allocated to us. It goes without saying, however, that we will not make any additional efforts to compensate for the lack of solidarity of some Member States. We won't. We are therefore fully on track to achieve the required percentage for the number of people eligible for relocation. It's very important to get that. We are doing nothing but what the Netherlands and other neighbouring countries are doing, so we are just achieving the percentage. I can't transport ghosts here. Bearing in mind Mr Wouter De Vriendt's questions a few minutes ago, I must confess that it is quite tiring to always have to say the same thing. However, we are doing what we can and what we must do. Mrs Lanjri, I must also inform you that there is a new progress report on relocation. It was published by the European Commission a few weeks ago. I think it was published on a Thursday about three weeks ago. On Friday there was a European Council in Luxembourg. Belgium is no longer mentioned in that report as a country that needs an additional push in its back. We're standing there and we're off the penitentiary. Mr Avramopoulos has also told us in the Commission that a number of countries have seriously stepped up their efforts and that Europe is very satisfied with them. One example of this is Belgium. If it's okay, it can be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, where has it been established that the figure has been adjusted to 1 510?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u81	Mrs Lanjri, that figure has not been officially recorded anywhere. Unofficially, it's what most countries are doing right now. Why isn't it official? It is not official because the Commission is bored with the story that some countries have already reached their quota for the first few months. They have actually done too much proportionally. Public opinion in these countries is sensitive, given that a number of countries have not yet done anything and will not do anything. In that sense, it is very difficult to sell this absolute figure politically in our group of European Member States. That is why we have not yet officially abandoned it. There are three countries that had already done everything in the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u82	Mr Secretary of State, the European Union has also decided, in addition to 160 000 refugees, to resettle 20 000 refugees from refugee camps in the conflict areas at the borders of Europe or beyond, selected by UNHCR and recognised as refugees, spread among the Member States. The agreements and the resettlement of these 20 000 refugees are not enough either. How many refugees were already resettled in Belgium as part of the implementation of the 2015 agreements in the European Union? How many refugees will be resettled in this context in the course of 2017? Is that how we live up to our commitments? If not, has the figure also been adjusted or not? I believe that the figure has not been adjusted, because the conflict areas concern another programme, for which no percentage has been programmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u83	Ms Lanjri, in the framework of the conclusions of the European Council of 20 July 2015, all Member States jointly offered 20 504 relocations. In this so-called EU settlement scheme, Belgium has provided 1 100 places. Resettlements should take place between 8 June 2015 and 8 December 2017. The counter was on 892 two weeks ago. The number's up, but I can't give it to you. My counselor, who sits next to me at committee meetings, is on his honeymoon. He can't be reached. Starting tomorrow, he'll be back. Belgium will fill in the full quota of 1 100 for the December 2017 deadline. I'm sure that's the most important thing you've ever wanted to hear. Later in 2017, Belgium will carry out several resettlement missions, including two in Lebanon, and I will also take part in a mission called "Prime Minister," for the selection of about 300 refugees. The quota of 1 100 from the conclusions of the European Council will in any case be completed in full and within the deadline. We may even do something more. Belgium is therefore in full compliance with its European commitments. Even more, in addition to the 1 100 re-locations, our country is making a lot of additional efforts. For example, more than 600 Syrian Christians have been legally brought to our country through targeted humanitarian visa operations and we are making an additional effort of 1 968 places in the framework of the EU-Turkey deal, 600 of them through traditional resettlement. So we are actually doing a lot more than creating 1 100 relocations. People come every week. How many are there now isn't there, but that's a good question. I'll get you the answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u84	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u85	I believe in a system whereby we work at European level on both stricter border control and legal access routes for genuine refugees and not economic migrants. Illegal migration and smuggling must be brought to a clear halt so that we can focus our efforts on reception in the region and resettlement of the most vulnerable, whatever we are doing. That'll sound like music to the NGOs, won't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u86	Mr Secretary of State, the resettlement has started a little slow at the beginning, but I note that it is now running smoothly and that we will certainly get what we had planned. As far as our commitment to Turkey is concerned, if you can give the figures, they can still be included in the report or in an annex. How many of the 1 968 places have already been filled in? Only if Member States accept their share of responsibility and effectively accept refugees will the situation be sustainable for certain countries. If Turkey is left with 3 million refugees, while there are still refugees and no effort is being made to resettle even a small part of the refugees in Europe, there is still a risk that the refugees will be allowed to travel to Europe in other ways, with all the consequences. Then they end up in Greece via other roads, via Libya. Then there is also a problem there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u87	Madam President, Secretary of State, France recently welcomed a first Chechen homosexual refugee on the very day of Vladimir Putin's visit to Versailles, according to the French association SOS Homophobia. In April, the Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta published the arrests and persecutions of homosexuals in Chechnya by the Russian police authorities. The French authorities therefore appear to have taken action against the abuses committed by the Chechen authorities. Previously, on 17 May, the Lithuanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this time, said: "We issue visas for two arrivals", about two Chechen homosexuals fleeing these same discriminations. On 18 May, your colleague, the Belgian Foreign Minister, decided to refer the matter to the Council of Europe. He hoped that Russia, one of the 47 members of that institution, would abide by its obligations and thus "make the law triumph". Mr Secretary of State, has Belgium recently seen an increase in the number of applications for protection of refugee candidates from this part of the Russian Federation? Does Belgium intend to facilitate the granting of humanitarian visas for persons fleeing Russia in general and Chechnya in particular, for reasons of discrimination with regard to their sexual orientation? Are joint initiatives on both reception and methods of protection currently under consideration at European level? Finally, how is the reception of persons seeking protection on behalf of their membership of the LGBTQI community organised, regardless of their country of origin - not just Chechnya or Russia in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u88	Mr President, Mr Hellings, despite the gravity and the constant deterioration in the situation in Russia for sexual minorities in recent years, this ground of asylum is not invoked significantly by the Russians in asylum applications in Belgium. The number of asylum applications submitted is not necessarily representative of the seriousness of the situation prevailing in a country of origin. No increase in the number of asylum applications for this reason has in any case been noted recently. In terms of the number of cases handled by CGRA, the figures are as follows: in 2012, two of them invoked gender identity or the reason for sexual orientation. In 2013, six; in 2014, thirteen; in 2015, six; in 2016, thirteen; and between January 1 and April 30, 2017, only two. It is important to recall that the statistics by theme available to CGRA for a given year concern not the number of applications for international protection based on that topic, but the number of asylum cases in which that reason was invoked and for which the CGRA took a final decision, positive or negative, between 1 January and 31 December of that year. In the strict sense, this does not necessarily correspond to the number of persons who, in the same year, applied for asylum on this ground. These figures should therefore not be taken as absolute. A special procedure for such persons is not on the agenda. The issuance of a humanitarian visa is also a possibility. When we receive such requests, we will consider them. There is no specific initiative on reception at European level. It is first and foremost the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to react. I also support Minister Reynders' initiatives in this regard. Fedasil always tries to offer a reception place adapted to the specific needs of the person. When LGBTQI asylum seekers present a situation of vulnerability, the designation of a place of reception in individual housing can be recommended. This does not exclude, of course, that there are LGBTQI asylum seekers for whom collective reception is not a problem. I have already communicated on several occasions that I do not want separate rabbow centres, as there are in the Netherlands. I'm absolutely against it. I am against the fact that other asylum seekers think it would be normal for homosexuals to be in separate centres. I really don't agree. And I think a lot of LGBTQI agree absolutely with my opinion on this. An individual assessment of specific needs, on a case-by-case basis, is therefore always necessary to determine the appropriate reception space. It's possible, but it's not always the case. Normally, we don't. In addition to the most suitable reception space, the support of LGBTQI asylum seekers is also, as with any resident, an important focus for Fedasil, as evidenced by the support of the Safe Havens project and its one-year extension in 2017, or the participation in a monthly meeting on LGBTQI organized by Rainbows United, as part of the new national action plan against violence and homophobic discrimination. Fedasil is also committed to ensuring the continuity of support for LGBTQI asylum seekers and to strengthening the various projects, activities and good practices within the reception network for this public. You know this year's Gay Pride theme was gay refugees. We have worked well with the Gay Pride organizer and you can ask him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, in fact, it was the subject of the Belgian Pride. That's the new name, I'm sorry for you! I agree with you about a separate reception; it is not at all my intention or my will. Indeed, I believe that it is a policy where people live together, regardless of their sexual orientation and their religious or philosophical beliefs. Of course, there is the particular case of some transgender people who may find themselves in difficult situations. I think, for having visited some reception centres, that it is clear that staff attention is being paid to these vulnerable people. I think we need to continue in this direction. I understand that there is no recourse to the possibility of granting humanitarian visas, as France and Lithuania have done, for political purposes. I also think that humanitarian visas can be used not only to help people who are in need, but also to show an open, tolerant face and advocate LGBTQI rights towards countries that are problematic. I think that's what President Macron did in France. On the other hand, I am very interested in the list of safe countries that you want to complete. The list of safe countries, in any case for Albania, has been systematically broken for four years. You systematically re-enter Albania in the list of safe countries. Why is it broken by the Council of State? In fact, Albania is not a safe country especially for LGBTQI people. I believe that what is happening in Russia and Chechnya in particular should encourage you not to place Albania on the list of safe countries, since in this particular case the rights of LGBTQI are not respected. This explains why Belgium, on a regular basis, grants asylum for these reasons of belonging to this LGBTQI community to Albanians. Let's make a stone two blows and stop putting Albania on the list of safe countries, for this reason!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u90	Questions Nos 18866, 18867 and 18872 by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u91	Mr Secretary of State, in 2011 we amended and strengthened the law on family reunification. Before that, parents, grandparents and in-laws could settle in Belgium via the children. We made that impossible at the time. It was intended to limit this to the nuclear family. I still support that choice. However, it was never intended to make it impossible for parents and grandparents to visit their children and grandchildren in Belgium. Visitation should always be possible. However, we have already noticed during the previous legislature that DVZ often had problems. That is why it was very clearly agreed during the government negotiations that it was necessary to ensure that visas for temporary stay could be obtained quickly and without too many problems. It was an en-and-story. On the one hand, it was made impossible to come here permanently through the children. On the other hand, there was a relaxation for the family visits of parents and grandparents. Yet many stories of people who fail to do so reach me. That often has unfortunate consequences. For example, parents sometimes miss the marriage of their child or the birth of a grandchild. It goes without saying that a visa should not be handed over randomly. For that there are rules that we must keep to. For example, a charge is requested, but it was clearly agreed that the Foreign Affairs Office would change its policy. However, there are often problems with the location risk and how DVZ estimates that. That's where things go wrong a lot. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware that many applications for short-stay visas in the context of family visits by DVZ are still rejected on the basis of DVZ's suspicion that the applicant will not return to the country of origin? This is a standard form indicating "Your intention to leave the territory of the Member State before the expiry of the visa could not be established." I know examples of this, even when there are return tickets. This happens regularly and yet people clearly indicate that it is about a visit, for example. For example, there was a couple who applied to have the mother-in-law, the mother of the woman who gave birth in June, come over for 75 days to witness the birth. This was refused because there was no evidence of the return. In the long run, people wonder how they're gonna prove this. All other evidence was added: a proof of the gynecologist, the charge and pay sheets. It had also been very clearly stated that it was for a short period of time. Where are you, Mr Secretary of State, implementing what was agreed in the government agreement, namely to simplify the issuing of such visas for family visits? Which steps will you take? Are you considering an instruction to DVZ or is there still a need for a change of law? I do not think the latter is necessary in principle, but it is a question of correct application of the rules without asking for impossible things. Moreover, it is not acceptable to everyone to assume that they will not return, even if they give the evidence. I have another example. Someone from Ukraine asked for a short-stay visa to visit her friend. The point was made that there were no revenue of their own. This seems quite obvious to me, because it was about a student. Also, the intention to return was not established, so to speak, while a return ticket was attached. I think that is a strange situation, especially when we know that a visa liberalisation has been introduced for Ukraine in the meantime. Since 11 June, that person can come without a visa. I find it very strange that DVZ has dealt with it this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u92	I can give you a lot of examples where a visa has been issued. As far as the visa waiver for Ukraine is concerned, that is only for people with a biomedical passport, not for everyone. Of course, it's not that easy. In fact, the amendment of the law on family reunification was not intended to prevent family relations between ascendants and their children established in Belgium. However, Belgium is obliged, like the other Schengen partners, to respect the procedures and conditions for issuing a visa, as required by the common visa code. This code requires Belgium to verify that the applicant complies with the entry conditions for the Schengen area and that Belgium should pay particular attention to the risk of illegal migration, the risk of security in the Schengen area as well as the willingness to leave the territory before the expiry date of the requested visa. An ascendant generally submits the documents that allow to support the purpose and financial and medical coverage of his stay, as well as where he will stay. However, the dossier rarely contains information allowing the assessment of the anchoring in the country of origin and thus its will to leave the territory before the visa expires. The Foreign Affairs Office published a series of advices on its website before submitting a visa application. This was done following a recommendation from the Ombudsman on the handling of short-stay visa applications for visits to family residing in Belgium by third-country nationals. Before the summer, DVZ will ask the diplomatic and consular posts to distribute these advices locally in order to increase the number of complete files. The person requesting the file shall be responsible for the file he submits. All the information necessary for this is at his disposal. The amendment of the law is not necessary, as the procedures and conditions for issuing a visa determined by the common visa code are transparent. In countries where the visa applications are not received by Belgium, the other Schengen partners are examining the application. A complete file means a quick examination and a quick delivery of the visa. I will continue to monitor closely the implementation of this point in the coalition agreement. So we have already taken steps. I would like to say two more things. Firstly, visas are refused, but many more are granted. It is granted daily, also to parents and grandparents to visit, if the conditions are met. Secondly, it remains the case that after entry with a visa for three months, or even shorter, a number of people still apply for asylum or stay too long and so on. That's what we see every day in the Foreign Office. It is therefore necessary to be strict but fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u93	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have no problem with dealing with abuses. I have no problem with you being strict but just. It is quite logical and good that indeed a lot of visas are granted. That's what we were supposed to do. When we strengthened this arrangement, we said that we should do so, so that these parents and in-laws did not all have to come and live here, but that we were going to allow family visits. I'll make the following observations, most recently in files. These are people who give everything very clearly: doctor's notes that the child will be born in June, paychecks, charges. They clearly state that if the visa is paid, they will return within 75 days. What else can people do? Even with the additional information one gives... how does one deal with it? Those people are at their wits' end, in the meantime that child is born and that mother-in-law doesn't have her visa yet. Those are things where family dramas happen. We really need to deal with that. You say that it will now improve with the publication of those recommendations. I don't know if that'll improve. Why, in the event of a refusal, does DVZ not indicate how it can be proved that there is insufficient evidence of its intention to return? People don't know what they'll have to do to prove it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 19026, joined together Questions Nos 19028 and 19030 and Question No Mr Crusnière's 19029 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u95	Mr President, Secretary of State, Caritas and Convivial reported that the Belgian government has decided to reorganise the housing model for re-established persons. Neither Caritas nor Convivial would have a place in it. So far Caritas and Convivial provided social support for a period of two years. They were looking for an individual home and so on. Intercultural mediators also provided guidance, adapted to the needs of the refugees and to the local context. The reception of re-established refugees would be mainstreamed and will take place in two stages in the future, namely a first six-week reception phase in a collective centre and a second six-month reception phase in a local reception initiative. This raises questions about the extent to which all this is suitable for these vulnerable refugees. These people were selected by UNHCR on the basis of criteria of vulnerability. They do not know the language, nor the habits, and often arrive completely disoriented in our society, after sometimes staying in refugee camps for years. Mr Secretary of State, I therefore have a number of questions. Firstly, how will you ensure that OCMWs have the right expertise to accompany this very vulnerable group? In January 2018, for example, there will be a group of 100 Congolese. These people do not know what ATMs, cookers, electricity or gas connections are. Who will take care of them? Will the OMCWs provide sufficient time and resources for this? How can you support them? Secondly, re-established persons move to a LOI after six weeks in a collective center..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They can stay in a LOI for six months. What happens after that? Are these people being escorted in the search for a safe and affordable accommodation? Thirdly, the new collection model will fill the LOIS faster. Fedasil is finding it increasingly difficult to find modified LOISLES. Won't this make the problem bigger? How will you respond to that? Fourthly, in the new system, sustainability seems to disappear from the initial set-up of the resolution programme. In substance, it is intended to provide a durable solution to these profiles. How do you reconcile that with the new practice? Not only does sustainable tailored guidance disappear, especially from two years to six months, but there is no guarantee that the assistance provided will lead to sustainable integration. The reason for this is again the same. What can OCMW offer in terms of extra tailor-made support? Many problems do not appear at a later stage when people are settled and the first fires were put out. Traumas usually only seep through when peace has been found. How will this be followed up in the future? What profile will you resettle in the future? Will you, for example, resume resettlement from the Great Lakes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u96	Mr President, the right for re-established refugees was adapted in 2015 to meet the increase in the number of arrivals of re-established refugees. While it was still 34 arrivals in 2014, more than 1 000 scheduled arrivals of re-established refugees were planned in 2017. In this context, as well as in order to achieve in a flexible way the European commitments and assignments linked to the new resettlement schemes, the existing system was unsustainable. As a reminder, in that model, Fedasil provided a subsidy for the voluntary OCMWs who responded to our calls to offer a home and guidance for re-established refugees who, after a period in a shelter, flow to a private home. From mid-2015 there were insufficient voluntary OMCWs. As a result, since 2015, Fedasil has been using the LOI network, a quality network managed by OCMWs and specialised in the reception of asylum seekers, which was created in 2001 and today has more than 9 000 places. This approach was introduced in July 2016 with the instruction on the transition from material assistance to social services, which has reformed the reception model and made the group of re-established refugees a full target group. In this context, the first-line guidance offered by the Caritas and Convivial organisations had to be reviewed. A proposal was made to Caritas and Convivial to reorient their role in the program, but this was refused. The vulnerability criteria used by UNHCR to prioritise files in asylum countries and to select refugees are reviewed upon arrival in Belgium. In a structural way, Fedasil has developed a procedure to locate reception recipients with specific vulnerabilities at different levels and moments and to adapt the reception to their specific needs. There are shelter structures with a specialized approach for specific target groups, medical cases, single women with children, etc. In addition, Fedasil has recently launched a project call to strengthen the capacity of local actors. The priority in this call is to create networks around local reception initiatives to increase the mutual involvement of the local community and the residents of these reception initiatives. In this way, we can increase the framework of residents in the local reception initiatives and better guide them in growing towards independence. Resettled refugees are assigned to a LOI for a period of six months after a period of approximately three to six weeks in one of the four specialised reception centres. This period may be extended to a maximum of eight months on the basis of the rules in force for the extension of reception. After this period there are several possibilities. Firstly, the refugees are moving to a private home with support from the LOI. Secondly, the designated OMCW, subject to the approval of the refugees, makes the choice to enter the resettlement programme after the reception period in the LOI and receives a grant. Thirdly, the individual places will be suspended if the resident does not leave them after the end of the period granted. The LOI can facilitate and accelerate the integration of the resident by referring him to social assistance. The number of available places in LOIs continues to increase. At the beginning of February 2017, we had about 1 200 available LOI places. At the beginning of June there are about 1 900. In quantitative terms, therefore, there are sufficient places to meet international commitments and offer adapted reception. However, for certain family configurations, available sites may be limited. In such cases, Fedasil tries to provide a solution through a conversion of LOI sites. In the past, vulnerable people could actually be followed for two years. In the new model, the standard six-month period can be supplemented by twelve-month guidance if the OCMW has been assigned to re-established refugees as a partner in the programme. The guidance and specific needs of vulnerable files will be followed by Fedasil. The planning for 2018 is not yet known.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u97	Mr Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, the OCMWs are supported for intensive guidance. Do you have any idea how much resources it would be? Maybe that could be looked up sometime. If you can give me this information in writing, that is fine too, for which thanks in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u98	Mr De Vriendt, according to the Rules of Procedure, you are now asking your question, but I would ask you the courtesy of asking Mrs De Coninck to ask her last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u99	Mr Secretary of State, many millions of children flee. We've just been discussing this. They have a special protection status. They are entitled to intensive guidance, education, a guardian and so on. In Belgium, a number of services have the right to express doubts about the age of a person claiming to be a minor. It is the responsibility of the Voogdij Department of Justice to verify the identification of the person as a possible unaccompanied minor refugee. Of course, it remains of paramount importance to protect minors. It is also important to combat possible fraud. In recent years, we noted a significant increase in the number of doubts expressed about age. In 2010 there were 391 age doubts, in 2015 there were 1 187 and in 2016 1 296. In Belgium the age is estimated on the basis of a triple medical test: the radiography of the collarbone, teeth and wrist. There is quite a lot of criticism of the reliability of the age procedure by people from the sector, scientists and lawyers. The British Medical Bulletinconcludeerde in 2012: “There is evidence that radiography of bones and teeth, which is increasingly relied upon by immigration authorities, is imprecise, unethical and potentially unlawful, and should not be used for age assessments.” A resolution of the European Parliament in 2013 also calls on all Member States to review their practices regarding age provisions based on X-rays, given the controversial nature of medical techniques and the wide margin of error. At present, there are no criteria for questioning the age of a person. Moreover, there is no obligation to justify why age was questioned. There is also no obligation on the authorities to take into account the identity documents of the person, nor the declarations of social experts who would indicate the person's minority. How can one then ensure that the expression of doubt about age is not arbitrary? Firstly, doubts about age should not be systematically expressed and justified in an individual way. A multidisciplinary approach must be guaranteed, which ensures all procedural guarantees. The Belgian authorities must do everything in their power to prevent fraud and at the same time ensure that children are protected as children. What is your position on this? Secondly, is there any consultation to review the methodologies in order to ensure better detection or protection, depending on the perspective, for unaccompanied minors on the run?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u100	Mrs. De Coninck, the suspicion of abuse is the only reason to apply for a bone scan to determine whether someone is 18 years old or not. Every child is vulnerable and unaccompanied underage foreigners are even more so. It is very important that minors are given the necessary protection and guidance, thus avoiding the abuse of minors' procedures by adults. The expression of doubt about age is not random. The doubt shall be expressed for each minor on an individual basis. For this we use a range of indicators: external characteristics, a conversation with the person concerned, a statement during the preparation of the minors' sheet, information from our databases, information from the administrative file of the person concerned, the way in which they express themselves, behaviour, etc. Several factors are therefore taken into account to express a doubt. These are also motivated in Belgium to carry out an age study. For further information on the age study, please refer to the Voogdij department and to the Minister of Justice responsible for this. The purpose of an age study is, after all, to determine the minority or adulthood of a person who declares himself to be an unaccompanied minor. In addition, a standard deviation is always applied by the different hospitals, which extends between six months and two years, in favour of the declared unaccompanied minor stranger. I therefore believe that there is sufficient margin to provide the real NBMV with the protection to which it is entitled. A possible improvement there would be to have the age studies carried out not by different hospitals, but by centralising them in one place, carried out by one agency. Once again, this too is a competence that belongs to the Minister of Justice. In recent years, we have unfortunately noticed that the abuse of minor proceedings is increasing. This also increases the number of age doubts expressed. We can say that the doubt is rightly expressed in most of the cases. For example, the percentage of persons declared to be of age after the age study remains relatively stable, even though the percentage of persons for whom the age study was requested increased enormously in the previous legislature, between 2011 and 2014. Since 2014, we see a relative decrease in the percentage of age surveys requested. In absolute terms, therefore, there are more age surveys, but in percentage terms there are fewer than in the previous legislature. Furthermore, it can be noted that the percentage of age surveys requested has declined in recent years. The increase in absolute figures is therefore due to the asylum crisis 2015-2016, when there was, of course, an exponential increase in the number of minor asylum seekers. I've got the numbers right here. I'll get them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u101	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u102	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 19332, by Mrs Jadin: Question No 19336, by Mrs Poncelet Question No 19369, by Mrs Van Hoof: Question No 19414, by Mrs Poncelet: Question No 19431 by Mrs Jadin Mrs Lambrecht's 18234 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u103	Mr Secretary of State, in an interview with Reuters you give your view on the refugee influx via the Mediterranean. You advocate, among other things, the immediate return of refugees who have been hit by smugglers into Europe. Therefore, if refugees see no other way out than to pay a smuggler, you want to send them back without further ado. You're actually arguing for pushbacks. Such measures go directly against international law to apply for asylum. We cannot simply send refugees back without giving them the opportunity to apply for asylum. Nor can sending people back to areas where their lives are in danger. I do not need to remind you that it does not matter how refugees have been affected in Belgium or Europe before the asylum procedure. Even within the framework of the EU-Turkey deal, refugees can only be sent back after they have had the chance to apply for asylum. In the light of these facts, Mr Secretary of State, are you prepared to return to your idea of sending refugees to Europe via a smuggler immediately? What are you waiting for to make an extra effort in the field of resettlement and relocation? In this way, on the one hand, you may already be able to prevent refugees from paying a smuggler and, on the other hand, you can help to improve the dramatic situation in the hotspots, including for minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u104	Mr De Vriendt, I have long advocated extending the anti-drinking plan to the entire Mediterranean. My conviction, supported by facts, is that we can only prevent dramatic situations if we make it clear to migrants that an illegal boat trip to Europe does not give free access to European territory. After all, we have seen that the irregular route from Turkey to Greece dried up very quickly, once the open door policy was stopped via the Balkan route and once the EU-Turkey deal was in place. As long as we cannot take similar measures for the Central-Mediterranean route, migrants will continue to lay their lives in the hands of ruthless smugglers. So I'm not taking back a word from my interview with Reuters. You correctly state that today, in accordance with European case law, asylum seekers are not allowed to be picked up by ships under European command, without delay, to return to a third country. However, other slopes can be considered. For example, at a summit in Malta, the European Heads of State or Government decided on cooperation with Libya's neighbours, on the one hand, and support for the Libyan Coast Guard, on the other. This should enable the North African countries to undertake rescue operations on a larger scale and to bring migrants back to safety on the North African coasts. This policy has been endorsed by the leaders of the 28 European Member States, not pushbacks, but take backs. As I have always said, this is part of a broader vision of European asylum policy. In addition to the rigid border policy that has just been outlined, it also includes reception in the region and legal access routes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u105	Mr Secretary of State, I do not need to remind you that it is not a government position to push back refugees who have been smuggled into Europe through smugglers. You have given Reuters a position which, fortunately, is neither supported by the Belgian Government nor by international law. Moreover, you should simply replace those who want to escape a war situation and who see no other way out today than to call on a smuggler to get into safe territory. Again, your vision has not been borne, and I am happy to commend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u106	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the closed centre of Steenokkerzeel there are separate rooms for people who stay overnight just before their return or who have a temporary problem with group life. In one or more of those rooms there are reportedly no windows that can open and there is no other type of ventilation. Can you get this checked out and if necessary remedial action taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u107	Mr President, it is true that the windows cannot be opened, but there is indeed ventilation in the rooms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u108	Mr Secretary of State, that is a satisfactory answer. You had that verified, and it's okay. I can trust that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u109	Mr President, may I ask my question No. 18849 questions combined with those of Mr Hellings? Or did Mr Hellings ask a question to that effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u110	That question was asked, and that incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u111	Mr Secretary of State, it is reported that the waiting times for unaccompanied minors have been very long for several months. Sometimes it takes a year or more to call them for the asylum interview with the Commissioner-General. Both guardians and experts have repeatedly pointed out in the past that such long waiting times can lead to a great deal of uncertainty among minors. Moreover, in the event of a negative decision, it is also much more difficult to send them back. Through education, minors quickly establish links with our society, especially when they have to wait so long for a decision to be taken. Firstly, do you confirm that the waiting period between the asylum registration at DVZ and the asylum interview with the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless is currently very long for unaccompanied minors? How long are the waiting times at the moment? How long were they in 2015 and 2016? Secondly, how do you explain the long waiting times? What measures will you take? Thirdly, are there any differences between unaccompanied minors in terms of waiting time according to nationality? What are the elements involved in this? Finally, how long, more generally, does the average procedure for recording the decision for all asylum seekers take together? How has its duration evolved since the increased influx in the summer of 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u112	Mr De Vriendt, it is true that there has been a delay in dealing with asylum applications for unaccompanied minors, particularly unaccompanied Afghans. This delay has to do with a number of factors. Firstly, there is a very strong increase in the number of asylum applications in the second half of 2015, including a very large number of asylum applications from persons claiming to be minors. This very sharp increase had led to a delay in the service of Voogdij, both for the determination of age and for the appointment of a guardian, after it had been established that the person concerned was an effective minor. Unfortunately, we have to note that quite a lot of people have also wrongly presented themselves as minors. Due to the very sharp increase, there has also been a delay in the processing of asylum applications. In the meantime, measures have been taken to remedy the problems and to re-establish a situation in which guardians areappointed quickly if necessary and asylum applications can be systematically dealt with in a short time. Additional funds were allocated to the Voogdij service, with the result that the delay in determining the age and appointment of guardians has been eliminated. Additional resources were also allocated to the CGVS to address the backlog. The CGVS has developed a programme to reduce the backlog. The CGVS is doing a lot of work on this. In a few months' time, hopefully, the backlog will be completely eliminated, although I fear it will take a little longer. The delay is made up a little more every month. There are effective differences depending on the origin of the persons concerned; especially young people from Afghan origin must wait longer than others. This has to do with the very sharp increase in Afghan unaccompanied minor refugees. All your other questions are actually written questions. I can tell you that the average time limit was about six months before the crisis and now we are at eight to ten months. All other questions might be better put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic698x.u113	Mr Secretary of State, I did not ask for figures on waiting times between nationalities. I did ask for the general figure for unaccompanied minors. How long are the waiting times at the moment? How long were they in 2015-2016? That is a question of numbers, but it fits in with the discussion on the problem. I thought you'd given the average waiting time for all the procedures. I'll read your answer again.
