ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u1	Good afternoon. I apologize for being a little late; I didn't know I had to preside. Here we can start with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u2	Minister, the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) has recently argued for the obligation to wear helmets for cyclists under 14 years of age. In this respect, the public body has carried out a study showing that six out of ten Belgians are in favour of this measure. This result is motivated by the fact that 700 minors of this age are involved, each year, in a traffic accident as cyclists, some 50 of whom unfortunately are killed or seriously injured. The wearing of the helmet could reduce these icy statistics, in particular because the head is affected in one in two accidents and this type of protection reduces the risk of injury by 70%. The obligation to wear helmets is valid in 12 EU countries with different variations depending on age groups. France was to join this group of precursors on 22 March. The IBSR states in a press release: "From a scientific point of view, there is a consensus on the effectiveness of helmets in preventing head and brain injuries. Given the high risk of cyclists in traffic, the IBSR strongly recommends its systematic use by all two-wheelers. But for children up to the age of 14, the IBSR is calling for an obligation. Indeed, before this age, they must learn to understand the dangers of traffic while maintaining constant control of their bike and are more likely to fall. The introduction of such a measure must, of course, be accompanied by other measures, such as the constant improvement of the infrastructure for cyclists, awareness-raising campaigns for motorists regarding respect for weak users and for cyclists for compliance with the rules of the Road Code and the importance of a bike in good condition, an increase in controls,... ". Have you had the opportunity to learn about the IBSR's plea regarding the obligation to wear helmets for cyclists under the age of 14? Do you share the conclusions expressed? Are you considering the possibility of introducing such a measure in Belgium? Have you ever had the opportunity to meet with the cycling associations to take stock of this issue? If so, what considerations have been expressed to you and what answers have you provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u3	(...) The IBSR's latest barometer shows a 30% increase in the number of physical accidents for cyclists. In 2016, this increase is mainly visible in Brussels: +19.2%. Part of this increase is due to the increase in the number of accidents involving a senior rider on a bicycle (+7%). On the other hand, 2016 is marked by a general decrease of 3.6% in the number of people killed by bicycles, which is in absolute figures a downward record in Belgium. I am also aware that the IBSR believes, on the basis of a recent investigation, that an obligation to wear a bicycle helmet is justified for young people under 14 years of age. However, since the study has not been completed, it has not yet been communicated to me. She won't reach me until May. I asked the working group on the revision of the Road Traffic Code, when it will have the above-mentioned study, to consider whether the obligation to wear bicycle helmets for certain categories of cyclists is appropriate. I am informed from the point of view of cycling associations about the obligation to wear helmets. The Fietsersbond and the GRACQ fear that such an obligation will lead to fewer young people using the bike. As soon as the study is completed and communicated to the working group, all these elements will be considered. Be careful, however, that in this debate there is also a question of parental responsibility, before talking about legal obligation. Providing for a legal obligation will not necessarily raise awareness among the target audience (children), and may therefore not be sufficient to achieve the objective of better protection of children. Personally, as a Sunday morning cyclist, as a father and grandfather, I force my children and grandchildren to wear the helmet without the law forcing me to do so. In this area, I believe that it is especially useful for parents and children to be sensitized, inter alia, through road education courses which can be given in schools or through awareness-raising campaigns organised by cyclist associations and/or by the regional authorities responsible for this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u4	Minister, thank you for that answer. I am pleased that the number of people killed as a result of a bicycle accident is decreasing in the country. These are obviously statistics which are encouraging, although, like the obligation to wear the belt for driving motor vehicles, the obligation to wear the helmet can reduce the number of accidents further. For adults, it is rather a question – we have already discussed it with your predecessor – of an individual freedom and a choice to be asked. For those under the age of 14, there is also a special responsibility, since they are minors who need to be more protected. However, as you said, the legal obligation would not solve all the problems, so we must also look at two important levers: parental empowerment, but also awareness and prevention. I will come back to you in some time when you have received the results and conclusions of the study on this subject. We will then be able to take stock of the matter again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u5	Mr President, Minister, in the face of the major mobility problems in the Brussels Region, including the negative impact of road tunnel closures, the S rail offer is an excellent alternative to transport which is too unknown to the citizens. On the basis of a € 1.40 jump ticket on a ten-seat card, each traveller has access to the intra-Brussels network, which has 33 stations and stations, spread over 65 kilometres of tracks. Very clearly, the railway offer S is not lacking in advantages, for example for Ucclois who work in the city centre and who can make a journey between their home and their place of work in a good half-hour, compared to 60 to 75 minutes by car, or even much more in the event of accidents on the road. All this aside from factors such as driving stress or energy costs. However, SNCB's offer does not yet seem to seduce Brusselsers enough. According to recent press reports, only 5% of home-to-work connections are made via rail. This is an issue, especially as the public authorities have invested heavily in the railway system, notably with the opening of a number of stops, the opening of timetables and the improvement of structures. The question of information and awareness of these modes of transport for the people of Brussels is therefore raised. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you provide us with an overview of the overall use of the S rail network in the Brussels Region? What are the trends in attendance? In addition to the efforts already made by SNCB, what measures are already planned to increase citizens' information and awareness of this intra-Brussels mobility alternative? Finally, are synergies planned with the Brussels regional authorities to support the S rail offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SNCB points out that 34 stations are currently in operation in the Brussels-Capital Region. The Arcades station was opened in December 2016 and is located in the immediate vicinity of the Watermael station, offering a hub of exchange between the line 161 Ottignies-Brussels and the line 26 linking Uccle and Evere via Delta and Merode. SNCB does not yet have valid count figures for 2016, so it is not yet possible to study the impact of the launch of the S offer and the opening of the Josaphat-Schuman tunnel. As soon as these statistics are validated, SNCB will follow up on visits to Brussels stations in order to determine the impact of the changes in the offer and the measures to promote the offer S. SNCB has communicated in various ways since the launch of the offer S in December 2015, with the inaugurations of the new Brussels stations of Tour&Taxi and Germoir. The opening of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel was necessary for important extensions of the S offer. Following its postponement, SNCB only launched, in April 2016, a first major campaign to promote the S offer. During the September Mobility Week, the S offer was also promoted, with regard to both individuals and professionals and thousands of maps of the S and STIB intermodal network were distributed. In December 2016, a geographically targeted campaign highlighted the flexibility of the offer in terms of frequency and travel time for a set of destinations: ULB, VUB, European neighbourhoods, etc. In addition, SNCB collaborates with many partners to relay and promote its offer: Brussels authorities, municipalities, professional partners such as VOKA, BECI, Brussels Metropolitan, Brulocalis. In February 2017, SNCB conducted an investigation into the awareness and perception of S supply within the ER zone. It appears that the S offer enjoys a reputation of 26% and a reputation helped by more than 51%. SNCB informs me that it is preparing a new promotional campaign that will take place throughout 2017 to further increase the awareness of the S offer. I would add to the answer prepared that the S offer in Brussels concerns 10 lines. Together with SNCB and the Brussels authorities, we will promote these lines, two by two. We will rely in particular on the communal newsletters using typical examples: "You live in Braine-l'Alleud, you will work in Evere, here will be your average journey time by car at 8 a.m., here will be the necessary journey time by train". This way people will perceive the efficiency and quality of this new offer, which remains unknown and insufficiently engaged. It is known that when a new train offer appears, it takes at least two or three years to mature. So we're going to communicate and help. The SNCB, following the meetings we had with the Brussels authorities and the representatives of my firm, will proceed in this way by massaging the information and retailing it line by line, by grouping two lines at a time, and so on. We hope to have finished by spring 2018 on all the lines by acting in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u7	I thank the minister for his positive and encouraging response. It is true that, without recalling all the mobility problems which Brussels has experienced and which it is still experiencing, mobility is a regional competence, but the federal government also takes its share of responsibilities, particularly with regard to the metros north and south financed largely by Beliris. This S offer is a real credible alternative that can be useful for a large number of citizens. All that remains to be done is to promote it. With the various measures you set out in this promotional campaign in 2017 and in the "two lines by two lines" campaign, it seems to me that with concrete and talking examples a number of commuters and citizens can be made aware to borrow this type of alternative public transport offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u8	Mr President, I have failed to pass on anything on to the stations. In order to increase the visibility of railway stations in the Brussels agglomeration, SNCB has started to install totems with SNCB's "B" and "S" logos near the railway stations. Depending on the speed of obtaining town planning permits, totems will also be installed this year in most stations in the capital. I forgot to report it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u9	Mr Minister, the press recently reported that since 1 May 2016, the so-called 'W' transit plate for Belgian nationals residing abroad cannot be renewed and extended beyond six months. In view of this situation, many practices remain, such as the registration of the vehicle in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, France and Germany, or the continued movement of the vehicle with a transit plate without validity, even if it is possible to seize the vehicle outright. In this regard, it would appear that this problem also leads to revenue reductions for the public treasury as each registration lost amounts to a direct loss of EUR 75, not to mention the unissued insurance, part of which is also the responsibility of the State. Minister, it is my responsibility that your services have become aware of this issue. However, it would appear that no response has yet been forthcoming. I would like to ask you the following questions: What is your assessment of the implementation of the Royal Decree in force since 1 May 2016? Are you satisfied with the results achieved in the field? What measures have you adopted to limit circumvention of the legislation I have just mentioned? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u10	Dear colleague, on 1 May 2016, the regulation on temporary registrations was changed by the Royal Decree of 19 February 2016 amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the registration of vehicles. You claim that this change results in harmful practices such as the use of transit plates outside the validity period. You may be surprised to learn that these practices are not new and already existed before the May 1, 2016 amendment. I would therefore not dare to say that this new regulation causes such harmful practices. The new regulations provided an update on certain aspects of temporary registration. Thus, the period of validity has been reduced to six months. However, this had created problems for some people recently affected by the correction made by the amending decree of 24 February 2017. This recent amendment of February 24, 2017 provides for the possibility of extending the period of validity of six months into subdivisions of a minimum month over a calendar year. After one year, a temporary renewal of registration is possible once again, a period of validity of six months which can again be divided into periods of one month. If you ask me to take stock of the implementation of the amendments, I must note with satisfaction that the introduction of temporary registration for export is a success. The temporary registration for Belgians residing abroad was perfectable and is now adjusted thanks to the recent amendment of 24 February 2017. In addition, this recent amendment provides an opportunity to eliminate potential misuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u11	I thank the minister for his clear and precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Scourneau's 17139 was postponed. Mr Kir is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u13	Mr Minister, on 20 March the first reports were published on a possible Easter strike by air traffic controllers. According to the newspapers, individual interviews and possible personal prosecution of air traffic controllers in the context of the application of the instructions on runway and route use since 2007. Apparently, residents' groups would base themselves on Article 233 of the Criminal Code to accuse air traffic controllers of collusion by civil servants. Since air traffic control has been controlled from the cabinet of successive ministers for decades, they too would be responsible under the relevant article. The air traffic controllers concerned would have been given more information in Belgocontrol's offices on 20 March. Article 233 is very rarely used. The last time was when a number of mayors in Halle-Vilvoorde refused to hold unconstitutional elections, but that is a completely different matter. How many air traffic controllers are involved? Is it just about air traffic controllers in active service or also about people who are now in disponibility or retired? Is the basis for the individual interviews indeed an investigation under Article 233 of the Criminal Code of 1867? Given the scope of the article, it is not impossible for several ministers' predecessors to be included. Can former State Secretarys or Ministers or their delegates be included in the file for personal questioning and/or potential prosecution? How many instructions were issued by you and your predecessors on which air traffic controllers should base their decisions in terms of runway and route use? Will you deliver the list of instructions from the Cabinets to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u14	Belgocontrol informs me that it has indeed received a request from the investigating judge to provide the identity of the air traffic controllers of the control tower who were employed during several periods in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2016. In total, it is 227 days. Belgocontrol also points out that the application of the investigating judge is the result of a civil party complaint lodged in 2010 for the conspiracy of officials, pursuant to Article 233 of the Criminal Code, and for acts of arbitrariness which infringe constitutional freedoms and rights, committed by a public official, agent or carrier of public authority, pursuant to Article 151 of the Criminal Code. According to the information supplied to me by Belgocontrol, the complainant parties mention that qualification in their complaint. The investigating court shall examine the alleged material facts which are the subject of that complaint. The judicial authorities will be able to determine whether criminal qualifications will apply to them and, where appropriate, what qualifications. Belgocontrol currently collects the data requested by the investigating judge. The judicial investigation has been going on for seven years and the investigations are covered by the investigation secret. I am therefore not aware of the intentions of the court in that file. In recent years, the use of the runways and routes led to numerous instructions from the Minister or the Director-General for Aviation of the FPS Mobility. However, there must be no mistake about the debate. I would like to remind you that several basic elements of air traffic control are standard at European level for that sector. Job choice is a complex process, in which security is and must remain the first priority. Nothing can make us deviate from that rule. I take this opportunity to reiterate that I have every confidence in the professionalism of air traffic controllers and Belgocontrol staff in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u15	Minister, I would certainly like to support your last appeal. Indeed, I am confident that air traffic controllers will do their job in the best of conscience and try to manage our airspace as safely and efficiently as possible, because that is ultimately their job. At the same time, there have been some distortions in recent years. For example, in the previous legislature, we occasionally saw instructions that were not aligned with anyone. I once turned the supervisor's log on the tower upside down, with numerous references to certain political tendencies that have been put in place under pressure from residents' groups. That does not, of course, create much stability. I do not think that we should then start looking for air traffic controllers in the first place. But we need a stable framework, a broad-based and sustainable airport agreement. I understand that you took the first steps today or yesterday. Let us hope that all regions in this country realise that there is a major impact of economic and nuisance policies, and that negotiations with a view to an agreement are the best way to get to work. Let us, above all, continue to do so. Then we will no longer need that kind of lawsuits and air traffic controllers will no longer need to be questioned, because then we will have a clear framework. We have to work together on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I was arrested by a number of citizens following the felling of trees along line 124 of the SNCB, between the stations of Uccle Calevoet and Linkebeek. In this regard, I later visited the site and found that the teams deployed on the ground had razed all the plant formations, including those located below the slope, more than 30 metres from the railway tracks. De facto, the approaches to Line 124 now present a sad image that does not contribute, on the one hand, to the preservation of fauna and flora and, on the other hand, to the aesthetics of an entire neighbourhood. I regret this situation, because the railway slopes are an integral part of the regional green grid. Their quality of natural habitation and ecosystem has also been established in the Nature Plan of the Brussels Region. I also deplore this technique of work because, in March 2014, the services of the operator Infrabel were illustrated by failing to comply with the regional permit which required to maintain vegetation of less than 1.5 meters high and trees of less than 40 cm of circumference. So, Minister, I wanted to take stock of this issue and more generally on the situation of logging. Have the above-mentioned slaughters been carried out in accordance with the requirements of the town planning permit? If so, was it necessary to remove any vegetation at least 30 metres from the railway tracks? What measures are currently being implemented to limit the maximum slaughter and pruning to the vicinity of railway lines? Finally, is a tree and vegetation plantation project planned in this area? If so, what is the agenda for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u17	Dear colleague, Infrabel confirms to me that the work has resulted in the granting of a town planning permit. The permit issued made it necessary for these trees to be slaughtered in order to maintain the vegetation that did not require a permit. This project was awarded to a subcontractor following the award of a public contract. He was obviously informed by Infrabel of the conditions of the permit. Infrabel informs me that she analyses whether the conditions have been met. If this is not the case, Infrabel will be legally liable in case of fault and will turn against the subcontractor. This site does not pose a major risk to the safety of railway operations and has not been continuously monitored. Sensitized by this case, Infrabel will take steps to firmly remind all its subcontractors of the need to monitor the conditions of the permits issued. The vegetation at least 30 metres from the railway lines is not directly dangerous to the safety of railway operations but to the residents. Infrabel receives numerous complaints from residents about the lack of tree maintenance and the fact that these trees become too large (lack of light in their homes, dead leaves in gutters, risk of falling in their gardens and fences). As described in Infrabel's circulars, in order to maintain a green grid, areas of 200 metres per kilometre are treated alternately, so as not to have two areas opposite each other – track A side and track B side – nor contiguous from year to year in such a way that after five years, the entire kilometer will be maintained and the cycle will be able to begin again, thus avoiding that vegetation develops too much in height. The vegetation on the railway slopes is spontaneously growing. To Infrabel's knowledge, there are no plans to plant trees in this area. In other places, and as long as this in no way hinders its main missions, Infrabel has occasionally contributed to tree planting projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u18	If this proven situation and this obvious problem allow, therefore, to remind the subcontractors, with whom we are working in the future, that the specifications and all the obligations resulting from them must be respected, this episode will then be used to draw attention to other projects and this will be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 17438 was converted into a written question. Mrs Lambrecht is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u20	Mr Minister, as I know, there is still no new multi-annual investment plan on the table today. The negotiations on this are still under way, I suppose. However, the federal government decided at the beginning of February to call on debt financing to realise a number of rail projects. It would amount to EUR 1.05 billion. This sum would be invested in the GEN around Brussels and added to the rail priorities of the regions. You recently informed me in committee that the Executive Committee of Mobility Ministers would meet in April. Among other things, your Flemish colleague, Minister Weyts, had insisted on this in order to clarify the distribution of the additional loan. An invitation to the meeting has not yet been received, unless my question has become obsolete. When will that invitation be sent? Has a date been set for the meeting of the Executive Committee? It is not the first time that a letter from Minister Weyts has not been answered. Previously, he informed you that the Flemish Government is prepared to pre-finance the reactivation of the Hasselt-Neerpelt railway line, which is still the priority for Flanders. How do you feel about the proposal? By what means will you inform Minister Weyts of your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u21	In consultation with the respective secretariats of the Regional Ministers, the next meeting of the Executive Committee of Mobility Ministers was provisionally established on 19 May. I'm still waiting for confirmation that they can clear themselves. Then I will be able to send the official invitation with a proposal from the agenda. On the letter from Minister Weyts of 6 February concerning the ECMM and the issues relating to the transport plan 2017 and to rail investments, my cabinet sent an e-mail to Minister Weyts' cabinet on 29 March in which his questions on the transport plan were answered. No comments were made. As far as rail investment is concerned, I wanted to wait until I had the information on the financing of regional rail priorities. In view of the decision of the Council of Ministers of 31 March on the national plan for strategic investments, in particular the chapter entitled "Railway' of the plan, the debate on the choice of regional priorities can be restarted. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that figures on the distribution of additional resources by the federal government have been known to you since 7 March, when I have provided you with the table annexed to the reply. I can confirm that the federal government has earmarked EUR 368 million for works other than the GEN in the Flemish Region. The political debate on the choice of projects will be held in the Investment Cell, led by the ECCM, which includes Minister Weyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u22	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I understand that consultation with the regional ministers is planned with a slight delay. I welcome the fact that the consultations are scheduled in the meantime. You are dependent on the agendas of my fellow Members. I also hear you saying that you are awaiting confirmation from two fellow Members. Which colleagues are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u23	We will put forward the priorities of Infrabel and SNCB, but also those of the twelve projects for Flanders. We will see what priorities we can start with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u24	Unless I've misunderstood you, you've received confirmation from one of the Regions and the other one hasn't?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u25	Not from the Walloon region, from Mr Di Antonio, but I will see if we can hold a meeting on 9 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u26	You will hold a meeting on 9 May? May I take this opportunity to urge colleagues from the Walloon Region to do so? After all, I think it's about time. We have been waiting a long time for a new multi-annual investment plan. I understand that Minister Weyts' e-mail has meanwhile been answered, for which I thank you. I confirm that you have already published the figures in committee, but you will understand, of course, that your colleague in the Executive Committee would like to hear these figures personally and formally from the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u27	It is not the Walloon Region, but Pascal Smet, who had a problem with the chosen date. We will find a solution by Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u28	Mr Minister, my question concerns the difference between the number plates of electric cars and other cars. At present both types of wagons have the same type of license plate. This obviously does not improve the visibility of electric vehicles, as regards the enforcement of legislation on zero emission vehicles. Let me give you two current examples. A parking exclusively for electric vehicles is now signposted by a traffic sign and often there is also a loading post in that parking lot. For a parking guard or law enforcement officer, it is not clear whether the Audi A6 that takes up the parking space is actually a zero emission vehicle. For good practice, it is desirable for zero emission vehicles to be given a different type of license plate or an additional registration number, so that the Audi A6 is much easier to identify as a zero emission vehicle and is therefore entitled to that parking space. My next comment goes along with this. A number of parking spaces, equipped with a loading pole, are now exclusively reserved for zero emission vehicles, but the driver is currently not obliged to charge his vehicle when parking there. The parking lot is therefore unnecessarily occupied and we create an elitist system, whereby a number of parking spaces are always reserved for electric vehicles, which may use the pitch but are not obliged to use the facilities of the loading pole as well. An adaptation of the Road Code is desirable, in particular the design of a road sign showing that zero emission vehicles that use special parking spaces are only allowed if they actually charge their Audi A4s. It is a problem which will become more topical in the coming years because electric vehicles are increasing in number. In this sense, it is important that the government acts proactively. Mr Minister, there are three questions. Can there be an adjustment of number plates for zero emission vehicles, e.g. a number plate with the code EV? Then the recognizability can be increased. At least in some European countries that is already the case. Is it possible to adjust the Road Code so that users of the parking spaces for zero emission vehicles may use these places only if they charge their vehicle? Are there plans for this in the short or medium term? Finally, what initiatives do you, as Minister for Infrastructure, wish to take so that electric vehicles can become more visible in traffic and their presence can be facilitated much more?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a special registration plate for electric vehicles, as you propose, is not clear. Firstly, there is the diversity in the electric fleet. For example, there are fully electric vehicles, hybrid electric vehicles where not all hybrids are rechargeable and vehicles with fuel cells. Secondly, in Belgium the registration plate is connected to the holder and not to the vehicle. This could lead to abuse of the special registration plate. In addition, holders of a personalised license plate would fall out of the boat anyway. However, when you talk about zero emission vehicles, we are actually talking about the 100 % electric vehicles. These can be identified by the fuel code. Currently, the parking companies have access to the DIV database through a web service. This access is intended to identify the holder on the basis of the registration plate. I must, of course, examine this possibility, but the solution could be to make the fuel code of the vehicle available via this web service. In this way, parking companies can verify whether it is a zero emission vehicle on the basis of the registration plate and by means of the fuel code. An adjustment of the Road Code in the sense that vehicles may use the reserved parking spaces only if the battery is charged will not provide any relief. After all, it is impossible to establish that. The fact that the car is connected to the charging point does not always mean that the battery of the vehicle is charged. In the future there will also be more and more loading sites where charging is done via, for example, induction. There is no physical connection between the vehicle and the charging infrastructure itself. A solution is to limit the reserved places for electric vehicles in time. For this purpose, it is sufficient for road managers to place an appropriate time limit, according to the charging capacity of the system used, on a bottomboard. Work on reviewing the Road Code will consider whether and through what measures the use of cleaner electric vehicles, CNG, LPG and hydrogen vehicles can be encouraged. However, this is not so obvious because the prospect of more and more environmentally friendly vehicles must be taken into account. In other words, it has to be borne in mind that any derogations provided for today will become, as it were, the general rule in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u30	Mr Minister, it is true that there are different types of vehicles, but my question was mainly focused on cars that are charged 100% electrically. As far as the loading posts are concerned, these are gradually being rolled out in Flanders. I don't know what's going on in Wallonia. There was the Evora platform, where a number of municipalities were pilots. Moreover, the supply will also increase as soon as the price of such cars goes down. You yourself indicate that loading posts should be limited in the supply. It should also be ensured that such a vehicle does not use the parking space intended for a non-electric vehicle. I understand that you are taking my question with you in the discussions you are currently having on the revision of the Road Code, which is how this can be facilitated, in consultation with the parking companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u31	Mr President, Mr President, on 22 February there was a tragic accident in Bruges caused by a heavy truck crashing a six-year-old boy in front of the school gate. It is reported that the accident occurred when the truck stopped at the crossing point but left again too early. In addition, the little boy was seized by the truck. If an adult had been at the place of the child, the blind spot of the truck might have been less decisive, but in that respect all reservations for the judicial investigation. In any case, the school was convinced to work with authorised supervisors. The training of supervisors is also refreshed. There are currently three thousand authorised supervisors in Bruges. The management of the school concerned states that the lack of clarity about the regulations concerning authorised supervisors and in particular the ministerial letter from the Minister of Mobility prevented her from using authorised supervisors. For example, authorised supervisors would not have jurisdiction over parents who bring their children to school and then just cross the street back. In addition, in situations where one finds oneself on a main road, according to the letter, it would be better for the police to act instead of authorised supervisors. Indeed, the last ministerial letter dates back to 5 July 1999 and is perhaps obsolete in many areas. Following an oral question by Mr Renaat Landuyt, Flemish People's Representative on the Committee for Mobility and Public Works, Flemish Minister Ben Weyts stated after reading the letter that he can understand the confusion caused by the school director. Literally, the minister said: "A authorized supervisor may accompany groups according to those redirects, and a group is then defined as "some people with common characteristics," such as children or persons with disabilities. For example, a group is defined: people with the same common characteristics. So that makes that if there are people with different characteristics, you don't have a group anymore." Minister Weyts announced that he would contact you about this. Has he done that yet? Are you prepared to eliminate any ambiguity about the 1999 Ministerial circular and to draw up a new circular which provides clear guidelines? In this way, every school knows that it can employ always authorised supervisors to facilitate the crossing at the school gates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u32	Dear colleague, Minister Weyts has not yet contacted me on this issue. What exactly is meant by a group seems to me to be of minor importance in this context. The point is that Article 3.7.3.3 of the circular of 5 July 1999 clearly states that coincidental persons may cross with the children under cover of the instructions of the authorised supervisor. Therefore, I do not understand that some schools consider that they should not employ authorised supervisors, because in addition to the children, adults also cross. Adults have in fact the choice: either they switch independently, or they wait for the authorised supervisor to cross a group of children, with or without adults. I am aware that traffic conditions and mobility have changed considerably in recent years. More children cycle to school, the school environment is more saturated, the police cannot do all the traffic tasks, there is more road traffic and so on. As a result, I do think it is time to review the rules on authorised supervisors. Work on the revision of the traffic rules will cover the status of authorised supervisors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u33	Thank you, Minister. I have another question, but I do not know whether you will be able to answer it. I understand that there is a need for a review and a simpler statute for supervisors to stop having discussions. Do you have any idea about the timetable of that possible revision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u34	I think this will be before the end of the year. It's a very big work, it's 80 articles. We work on it every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u35	Mr Minister, my question dates back to 22 March. In the meantime, a number of things have already happened. I would like to ask my question anyway and thus give you the opportunity to give some more up-to-date information. Before the Easter holidays, air traffic control threatened to stop at Easter. The reason for this was that there was an audit of how some or all air traffic controllers would use their job use powers. At the request of DGLV, the Directorate-General for Aviation, there would be an audit to verify whether the choices for the jobs used were in conformity between 3 and 10 October. This actually happened on the basis of instructions given to air traffic controllers. The air traffic controllers would then be interviewed individually and individual names would be provided as part of this audit. That's what they were very worried about. The trade unions have also tried to play an intermediate role. I thought you had reached an agreement and reached a number of agreements. Minister, I would have liked some clarification on the following questions. Where did the question arise to interrogate individual air traffic controllers and what finality? Did this question come effectively from the Directorate-General or from elsewhere? There would already be a preliminary audit. What are the conclusions? Judicial proceedings and complaints were also made. What do you think of this evolution? Perhaps you will answer that a flight law can provide more certainty. I heard this morning that there have been developments in this area. However, we have not yet been able to see any texts on it. As far as the use of jobs and the powers of air traffic controllers are concerned, are the specific responsibilities and degrees of freedom of individual air traffic controllers with regard to the directives issued, which should not normally be subject to any interpretation? Mr Minister, I have an additional question, which is not part of my original question. I hope you can answer that. You've been with the unions since then. I understand from press releases that appointments were made. What are these appointments? To what extent has it already been implemented? If you could answer these additional questions, I would be grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u36	Mrs Becq, as part of the audit on the use of jobs at Brussels National Airport, which I asked DGLV, DGLV wanted to interview traffic controllers. According to the information I have at my disposal, the traffic controllers have expressed their fears about a European regulation which guarantees the operators of the operational aviation chain that they will not be punished for any act, omission or decision they would have taken in the light of their experience or their training, but that gross negligence, voluntary violation or destructive acts will not be tolerated. The just-culture principle accepts the human error, but not the mistakes or negligence. That principle is accompanied by the obligation of operational actors to report any incident that has or could have affected the level of aviation safety. I support that principle and wish to make it applicable to all aviation operational professions. Today, we are working with the actors concerned to increase the implementation of the principle. You are also quoting the ongoing legal proceedings. They are independent of DGLV's audit. However, these legal proceedings have given rise to similar fears. Whether it is in the context of an aviation survey, a judicial survey or an audit, I maintain that the just-culture principle is applied in a comprehensive way. In this respect, I will work together with the Minister of Justice on incorporating that European concept into Belgian legislation. I repeat that the concept is the subject of a regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u37	If I understand correctly, you have asked DGLV to audit as the responsible minister. Or did I misheard you? It is not the case that abuses have been detected and that an audit has been said to take place. That wasn't clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u38	This is an audit by DGLV on the choice of jobs at the beginning of October 2016. There's another court procedure, but I can't say anything about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u39	Individual citizens have indeed also made complaints, which means that judicial proceedings are pending. You've been visiting the air traffic controllers. The committee members did the same a while ago. It's a stressful job. Air traffic controllers have a huge responsibility. They act according to the just-culture concept in which mistakes are possible. Really gross errors and conscious negligence are of course another matter. The question is whether that is the case. It is very important to act properly and, when air traffic controllers are instructed how to act, to ensure that these instructions are clear, as well as procedures for serious safety reasons. In order to make good decisions, it is important that air traffic controllers feel safe in the decisions they can and can make. That increases security and confidence to make good decisions. That is a very important principle that must certainly be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u40	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 17477 by Mrs Grovonius, who is not present. Questions Nos 17515 and 17516 by Mr Delannois are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 17570 of myself is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u41	Mr President, Minister, the SNCB's new transport plan contains little news for my province. The expansion of supply is virtually impossible because the province has too many traces and too many diesel lines. Moreover, the infrastructure is saturated by a strong increase in freight transport. That is not my message, but this from the representatives of SNCB a few weeks ago during the road show on the new transport plan 2017-2020. Additional investments in the Limburg railway infrastructure are therefore much needed. NMBS, by way of Director Kerckaert, is also the requesting party. I can only welcome that, of course. From now on, I am a big fan of Mr Kerckaert who clearly says that there is an urgent need for rail investment in Limburg. I have long argued for a double track between Mol and Hamont, between Mol and Hasselt, between Landen and Hasselt, for electrification of the route Mol-Hamont and for the reactivation of the line Hasselt-Neerpelt. All these projects are included in the Flemish railway strategy of 2013. Minister, I have two specific questions. Firstly, is it true that SNCB is effectively asking for additional investment in rail infrastructure in Limburg? According to SNCB, which investments are priority? Secondly, has SNCB already contacted Infrabel on this matter? In other words, was Infrabel already informed of a question from SNCB? If so, what was Infrabel's answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u42	Mr President, my question could have just been linked to another question from Mr Raskin. The subject is the same, especially the investment in the railways from the federal government. We are told by the press that a large proportion of the amount of 1 billion earmarked for investment would go to the province of Limburg. The members of this committee are indeed aware that investment in the railways has been lagging behind the province of Limburg for years and that a number of investments are a priority. In the meantime, this is understood at different levels. Following the financing of the GEN around Brussels, as mentioned earlier, 368 million would remain for other projects. Two Limburg railway lines are at the top of the list, namely the activation of line 18 between Hasselt and Neerpelt and the extension of the electrification of line 19, which has already happened to Mol and should now be extended from Mol to Hamont, so that the diesel train can also be abolished there. Even more, an additional railway crossing to the Netherlands can be achieved on this line, towards Weert. Mr President, what is the priority investment, both for SNCB and for yourself, in order to be implemented in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Council of Ministers will decide on the multiannual investment plans of SNCB and Infrabel after the Investment Cell has delivered its opinion. Currently, Infrabel is still working on an adapted business plan including the design of a multi-annual investment plan in line with the revised debt stabilisation objective by 2020. As regards Mr Vanvelthoven's question, the two Limburg railway projects, in particular the activation of line 18 between Hasselt and Neerpelt and the electrification of line 19 between Mol and Hamont-Achel, are both part of the list of sixteen priorities submitted by the Flemish Region to the Investment Cell. As regards Mr Raskin's question, in the context of the preparation of the 2016-2020 investment plan, SNCB transferred a list of priority projects to Infrabel. This list includes electrification of the Mol-Hamont section. The electrification of the Mol-Hasselt section is also a priority for SNCB, but rather in the longer term. Both investments will better integrate the Limburg railway network into the electrified network. In any case, I can confirm that, thanks to the adoption of the National Pact for Strategic Investments, the federal government is making available a budget of EUR 368 million to finance rail expansion projects in Flanders, in addition to the budget for GEN work on Flemish territory. This amount is in addition to the traditional investment grant for financing the multi-annual investment programme of Infrabel and SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u44	Minister, the file is still on the Investment Cell table. Of course, people should not rush into action, but I can assume that you will keep pace and that sooner or later we will be able to land. In response to my very specific question, I hear that SNCB is indeed putting two projects forward. Mol-Hamont is absolutely a priority, even because it costs barely any money. Mol-Hasselt is of course very interesting. It is particularly practical in the context of a transport planning of SNCB, albeit in the longer term. I know I'm repeating myself, but the repetition is working. I therefore once again call for the reactivation of railway line 18 to the north of Limburg. Mr Vanvelthoven knows better than anyone how poorly unlocked the region in the north of Limburg is. It is an important project included in the SALK report, which saw the light after Ford's closure in Genk. I've already made dozens of pleas for that. The Prime Minister has referred to the project as the priority of priorities, Minister Weyts has repeatedly offered to prefinance the project, Mr Kerckaert is absolutely in favour of Limburg. I'm actually just waiting for you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u45	Minister, I can only support the question of urgency. Yesterday, I heard the American President use great words about boosting investment in the United States. This is also necessary in our country in a number of areas, and the railways are particularly important in this respect. You are at the wheel of getting these files on the investment list as soon as possible, so that we can actually start investing. In other words, I urge your fellow Members to come to the final investment plan as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u46	Minister, you recently launched a call for projects called "Women on a Bike". The aim of this initiative is to subsidize associations setting up measures to encourage women to use more bicycles. It is true that many women still hesitate to ride by bike for safety reasons, but also for infrastructure issues in their locality. This call for projects is part of the federal gender mainstreaming plan (2015-2019) and aims to strengthen concretely equality between men and women in society, including in the context of mobility. In the longer term, what other initiatives are you planning to pursue the objectives of the federal gender mainstreaming plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u47	In the longer term, I am considering complementary initiatives to encourage gender mainstreaming in mobility policies. The project "Women by bike" is proposed by the administration of the Mobility FPS. Other initiatives can also be taken, such as improving the registration of drivers, during road accidents with the hospital and insurance police. It appears that there is a significant difference between the severity of accidents and the number of women involved in road accidents and the number of accidents involving men. During the nights from Saturday to Sunday, it is often, unfortunately, mostly young men who are injured. This will involve working with the IBSR to link hospital data with police data, to improve the accessibility and interpretation of road accident data, and then to scientifically explain why there would be differences. They appear, it seems, quite clearly. During the 2017 edition of the Belgian Home and Working Travel Survey, my services will send a communication to employers, to encourage them to provide gender-based data on the use of different modes of transport (public transport, company cars, pedestrians, etc.).). We will refine data collection and analysis to determine if there are any differences. If we find differences, we can draw on them either to communicate, to act, or to understand why women would have fewer accidents than men.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u48	Thank you, Minister. I was surprised when I read this article. In our country, cycling as a woman can still be dangerous, depending on situations and places. You're taking a step in the right direction trying to stop this kind of phenomenon. I am obviously curious to know what your investigations will give and what measures will result. I congratulate you on this initiative and give you an appointment in a few months to analyse the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament 17603 from Mrs. de Coster, let's take a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u50	Mr Minister, in February 2016, the AWV started working on the viaduct in Kiewit, which in Hasselt and its environs is better known as the Philips Bridge. Those works must be completed this year. In the middle of that yard is the SNCB stop point Kiewit. That stop is as worrying as the neighbouring station of Hasselt. For example, part of the platform in Kiewit has broken up as a result of the works on the bridge. There was no mention of a possible renovation of that stop site during the recent National Road Show of SNCB in Limburg. However, SNCB could use the Flemish Region's efforts to renew Kiewit's viaduct and station environment to increase and harden the platforms. Minister, the Flemish Agency for Works and Transport has allocated EUR 13 million for the replacement of the viaduct in Kiewit and for the decorating of the station environment, including newly constructed parking spaces. Does SNCB intend to increase and harden the platforms of the stop this year in line with these works?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB and Infrabel both have a responsibility in increasing platforms. Since it makes getting on the train easier, the increase in platforms is important to improve the number of customers. The government has recently allocated EUR 368 million, among other things, to works in the Flemish Region. This decision will enable the debate on the choice of regional priorities to be restarted. That debate will be conducted within the Investment Cell under the guidance of ECMM. A balance must be struck between the province, the projects, the stations, the roads and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u52	That's very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u53	It is not easy at the moment because everyone wants to receive part of the billion! However, there is a balance to be respected, regional priorities will be established.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u54	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the incident itself is well known. It's been enough in the media. On 9 April 2017, an overcrowded train was stopped by passengers who pulled the emergency brake because other passengers had apparently become unwell. What surprised me, however, in communication was the figure of 2 000 passengers on the double-deck train. I thought an M6 train set had 140 seats. If I make a simple calculation, I get to 10 train sets and therefore 1 400 seats. It was therefore a mystery to me where the remaining 600 passengers stood. My questions are very brief, Minister. Is the cause of the incident known? How many passengers were on the train? Is the figure of 2 000 correct? Have passengers been refused? How much overcapacity can we have? If my previous questions are correct, I believe that this overrun also has an impact on the safety of passengers and staff. Are there any guidelines in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u55	I agree with Mr Geerts' question. He's already referred to the incident itself. I would particularly like to focus on communication, which has been very flawed once again. This point of attention keeps coming up again and again, especially in crisis situations. From SNCB's point of view, it is said that this should be done better. They are, in their own words, very strongly committed to it. Every time an incident occurs, we regret to note that this is still a pain in the ass. Minister, I have written down a number of questions. Does SNCB have an action plan on a stranded train? I suppose so. What steps should we take? What procedures should be followed? Why was communication with the stranded train in Deinze so difficult? Who's responsible? Is there a standard minimum required information to be communicated to travellers? What efforts will SNCB make to avoid this in the future? How many strandings have actually taken place over the past few years? Please provide an overview of 2012 to date, if possible in this short term. Image material can be of great value in determining an accident. In the Netherlands, as we could read recently, we are considering the use of a front camera on locomotives and train sets. Does SNCB intend to equip its rolling stock with this? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u56	Mr President, I would also like to join my fellow Members. I would also like to stress that communication is a pain and a justified frustration on the part of travellers. I will not repeat this again, and I will talk in particular about aid, which can also be mentioned in this incident. If I understand correctly, that train came to a halt after some passengers had pulled the emergency brake. About 20 travellers became unwell, which is already a high number. I also have questions about why the train left despite the overcrowding. They have already been cited here by my fellow Members. Apparently, there are no hard guidelines on overcrowding and when a train is allowed to leave. As long as the doors are closed, the train is apparently allowed to leave. The emergency services also denounced the poor communication from SNCB to the emergency services the following day in Het Journaal. I heard a fireman on the news. Apparently, it took an hour for the first contact between SNCB and the local emergency services to be made. The communication to travellers, as Mr Van den Bergh has already mentioned, was also very thin. The whole incident is unfortunate and once again reinforces the negative picture of SNCB that many people have. It reaffirms once again the idea that SNCB-NMBS has now really failed to do so. SNCB blames the incident on force majeure. I don't think that's correct, it's a little self-created chaos. In any case, the incident is being investigated. I would have liked to have gotten a detailed timeline from the incident. What are the preliminary results of the investigation? Didn't the air conditioning actually work? Was that in one or in several wagons? Was this defective, wasn't there an air conditioner or was it just not on? How was it communicated to the travelers? How was it communicated with the local emergency services? I thought they had to announce the contingency plan themselves in the end. Had SNCB anticipated the beautiful weather in advance, it was a Sunday in the Easter vacation by laying in additional trains, which might have reduced the inconvenience? What was the role of the ROC in the entire incident? We once visited that Railway Operations Center with this committee. This was created in order to be able to anticipate and react very accurately and very quickly in such situations and to ensure that the nuisance remains limited. What was their role, from the moment there were malfunctions with that train on the line towards Bruges? What lessons does SNCB draw from this incident for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u57	Mr President, due to a car crash at around 19:00 in Beernem on track A of line 50A, both tracks of line 50A between Bruges and Ghent were blocked in both directions. At that time the retreat of the day tourists from the Coast to the interior was in full swing. In addition to the planned trains, three additional trains were installed. As a result of the incident, the passengers were delayed at the stations Gent-Sint-Pieters and Bruges. The emergency scenario dynamometers, with diversion between Ghent and Bruges via Tielt and Lichtervelde, line 73, were activated. However, a number of waiting trains had to be delayed at the Bruges station due to the need for a pilot-train driver with line knowledge of line 73 on the detour route. By communicating to the passengers that the E1518 was the first train to reach Ghent-Sint-Pieters and beyond, many passengers have boarded this train. After all the seats were occupied, very many passengers remained standing on the train. Between Tielt and Deinze, in the vicinity of Wontergem, passengers have operated the emergency signal, causing the train to brake and to stop. Immediately a number of doors were opened by travellers, on their own initiative, after which a few hundred passengers spontaneously stepped off and ended up on the public road. The first reports show that a number of passengers had become unwell due to insufficient climatisation in one of the carriages. Immediately thereafter, the SIC of the service 100 was informed by SNCB's Security Operations Center, after which the medical intervention plan was activated. The estimate made by train escort staff and subsequently also by station staff and police services shows that there were around 2 000 passengers present on the train. The technical capacity is 2 600. Taking into account the comfort and quality requirements, the theoretical capacity is 2 250. The regulation provides that the train attendant must be able to securely close the doors and carry out the departure procedure in full safety. This was the case at the departure in Bruges. Three train escorts were present on the train from Bruges. SNCB has its own internal intervention plan, as provided for in Article 5 of the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006 on emergency and intervention plans. The intervention plan is also in line with Infrabel's internal intervention plan. Since 11 February 2016, a new internal intervention plan of SNCB has been published, clarifying the establishment and role of SNCB's intervention coordinators. The evaluation of the events of 9 April 2017 at Beernem and at Wontergem-Aarsele shows that SNCB's intervention plan was carried out correctly and that all SNCB's interveners in the field, in particular the intervention coordinators and their assistants, have completed the task assigned to them as required. In Ghent Sint-Pieters and in Bruges, where due to the events at Beernem and at Aarsele there were a lot of travellers waiting for their train, the substation chief and staff of Securail provided the necessary framework and channeling. Communication to passengers was not optimal in the immediate phase after the emergency signal and the opening of the doors for the on-site intervention coordinators of SNCB and Infrabel. The train escorts of the stranded train encountered the greatest difficulties in informing both passengers on the train and passengers on the public road correctly and had to wait for the intervention coordinators to arrive themselves. The Chief of Train immediately notified the Security Operations Center, which in turn requested the on-site emergency services. In addition, passenger dispatching was also notified to record the coordination of the incident. At the level of the ROC, the Rail Operations Center, everything was done between Traffic Control and RDV, the NMBS passenger dispatching, to take all measures to restore normal service and enable the channeling and evacuation of passengers. The communication in the train was made difficult by the multiple operation of the assistance button and the emergency signal by the passengers. The internal guidelines require passengers on the blocked train to receive an initial information message three minutes after the incident. After having obtained information, two information provided by the accompanying staff shall follow, no more than five minutes after the first notice. Every effort is being made to obtain information via mobile phones, signal phones and so on. At regular intervals of up to 10 minutes, customers should be informed about the evolution and prospects. In addition, the board chief must inform customers orally as soon as possible when travelling the entire train, as far as is technically possible. Following an initial evaluation by the SNCB services, the following actions were noted. Firstly, SNCB wishes to be able to operate in certain specific circumstances and under specific conditions without the train driver's knowledge of the line. A discussion on this will be launched with the DVIS. Secondly, in addition to the study on the line knowledge of drivers of detour routes, all other options are considered, such as the standby of drivers in certain major passenger nodes. Thirdly, with regard to the air-conditioned carriages which are not equipped with the possibility to open the windows, the procedure should be reviewed in case the air-conditioning does not work 100 %. The communication lines, especially between the regulatory bodies and the intervention bodies in the field, should be optimised. The new organisation of the Transport Directorate, which will be deployed in the coming months, will provide for a better structural approach and accountability. For example, a team leader is appointed for the customer service provider at the different real-time control levels. The evaluation shows that SNCB's internal intervention plan was correctly implemented and that all the interveners in the field have completed the tasks assigned to them as required. However, SNCB wishes to optimise regional cooperation with the police, emergency services and administrative authorities. The stranding itself is not statistically recorded, but is considered as a secondary effect. SNCB is indeed often confronted with this phenomenon. It's about personal accidents in full employment, accidents in consideration or the consequences of suicides. We can say that this occurs on average every two days. The initiative of the NS to equip the new equipment with front camera dynamometers is known to SNCB and is currently being studied by the technical service, which is responsible for purchasing the new equipment from SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. So it was a coincidence. In my reply, I want to focus on one aspect. I leave the other aspects to my fellow Members. An M6 train has a capacity of 140 seats. That is also in the official communication of SNCB. There were ten trains. Then I'll get to 1 400 seats. Then there is the estimate of 2 000 passengers. Here I hear that the technical capacity is 2 600, theoretically 2 250. That's an element I don't understand. I know you got the answer, too. There is a legal obligation to indicate the number of seats and pitches. The numbers you have given seem to be absolutely wrong. I absolutely do not want to place responsibility with the individual train attendant. I just want to avoid this in the future. If there are 140 seats on the technical sheet and you come here with 2 000, something is wrong. You're still acting mayor yourself. If a room is rented out by the municipal government, this standard is also faced. I do not think that the ratio of theoretical and technical capacity is right at all. I'd like to ask you to check that out. It is absolutely not my intention to point the finger at someone, but I think there is an improvement there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I welcome the fact that you have already taken a number of measures. You referred to the NS action, with cameras for trackers. In Beernem, there's a psychiatric facility close to the tracks. I myself experienced delays on the line to Ostend once. The train conductor told us that there were trackers. It was not a suicide attempt, but the train had to run much slower, resulting in a total delay of 45 minutes. The current incident happened again in Beernem. Is that a critical point? Perhaps a solution should be sought in consultation with that institution or closures should be placed along the tracks. The number of attempts at this place seems to me to be high. What I don't understand is, there was a problem with the climatization in one of the wagons. That's where the people became unwell.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u60	That's right, in a car.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u61	You said the 100 was called immediately. That wasn't what the emergency services said in the post-mails. They said they hadn't been notified that a train would be evacuated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u62	Mr Minister, I would like to join my colleagues in reading the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u63	Mr Geerts, I give you the floor for your question. 17819, combined with Question No 17784 by Mr Devin, on the unanimous opinion of the social partners on the mobility budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u64	Mr President, I propose that this question be postponed. Mr Devin could not be here and wanted to ask this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u65	Okay, then we'll postpone this question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 17721 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 17757 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Debates of the European Parliament 17844 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u66	Mr. Secretary, I don't understand anymore. A few weeks ago, you gave me a table on the EUR 1 billion investment envelope. Before the Easter holidays there was a press conference in which it was announced what investments would be made. In addition, I continue to receive reports from Infrabel that there are problems with funding a number of projects. In my written question I also referred to a hearing here with Mrs Vanderveeren, as well as to the impact of reducing the number of employees through redundancies. So I would like to try again to clarify the investments for Infrabel. Are projects slowing down due to the reduced amount of money? What projects? Can this be explained by the difficult budgetary context? Is investment in safety still on track? The 1 billion investment debate seems to be out of date with the early April reports. What plan for additional investment will we now have to launch for the future? After all, I fear that a number of investments are not being studied now, because there are no resources. This means that the moment that there is room again, one does not have a plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u67	The comments of the Infrabel CFO, which the press mentioned on 29 March, should be placed in a broader context and preceded an important decision in the Council of Ministers. In this context, I would like to point out that on 20 February, a narrow majority of Infrabel's board of directors declared itself in favour of a significant reduction in the company's debt, to the detriment of investments necessary for the maintenance of the network and for the transport plan. That went beyond the shareholder's will. It therefore clarified its expectation following the decision of the Council of Ministers of 31 March 2017. Indeed, the government has decided to ask Infrabel to adapt its business plan including the withdrawal of messages on temporary speed limits, the increase of platforms, the expansion of capacity between Ghent and Bruges and the safeguarding of the required level of service for the implementation of SNCB's 2017 transport plan. Infrabel may therefore limit the debt reduction to EUR 87 million by 2020 compared to the situation inherited from the rail reform. Compared to the plan proposed by the management and supported by part of the board, this amounts to an increase in Infrabel's resources of EUR 100 million. Since 2013, the deadlines for the implementation of most capacity expansion projects had to be extended. I will not list them exhaustively, but mention the GEN project, the symbolic project for the three regions par excellence. Since its launch, the network security projects have in no way been hampered by budgetary measures. According to the latest information I was informed, the objectives of the ERTMS master plan remain valid despite the yard failures. On 31 March, the government also decided to finance the completion of the GEN works and a series of priority yards for the regions thanks to a loan of EUR 1 billion. This decision will be the subject of one or more cooperation agreements with the Regions. The decision will enable the debate on the choice of regional priorities to be restarted. That debate will be conducted within the Investment Cell, led by the ECMM. In addition to the maintenance of the network, the additional EUR 100 million in the multi-annual investment plan, which I have just mentioned, could also be used to carry out works to increase capacity, such as bringing the Bruges-Gent railway line to four tracks, and reception works, such as the increase in platforms. The implementation of the GEN works and of the vast majority of priority yards for the Regions will go beyond 2020. All the consequences of the government decision of 31 March, including the impact on staff employed for the works, will now be the subject of consultation with Infrabel and SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic641x.u68	Minister, I will certainly study your answer thoroughly. I believe I understand that the burden of that additional billion will not be borne by the companies and that this amount will not be financed.
