ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u1	Question No 19272 by Mrs Renate Hufkens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u2	Minister, you may have provided answers since my question was tabled. On May 12, the federations representing Francophone nurses organized a symposium on the new definition of the profession of general care nurse. It has appeared that you have not yet taken a position on the recognition of a new function or profession of caregiver better trained than today or nursing helper. This new profession would help to preserve training accessible to those who are now part of the training of "patented nurses". Without this recognition, it is impossible for the Communities to organise these training courses. Both the schools which organise the training concerned and the nurses of all categories are therefore subject to uncertainty. We have also learned that in Flanders, many players believe that HBO5 training could not meet the new minimum training criteria to be "euro-mobile". It seems that, on the German-speaking side, bachelor's training is planned to last four years. However, since no change in patented training has taken place, it takes only three years. Minister, what are your ambitions with regard to caregivers? What about a possible health-care function that could offer a future for HBO5 patent education and for nurses who wish to complete their training by specialising? Following your consultations with the Communities, can you give us their respective positions? In March, you presented us with a concept note on the profession. You can refer to the place of specialized nurses and nurses in advanced practice. Do you already have an idea and what is your ambition with regard to the scope of these advanced specializations and practices and the additional training needed to achieve this level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u3	Mrs Gerkens, as far as the carer is concerned, I will examine the legal framework in force, in particular to verify the activities allowed to them and the conditions required. In my view, it is necessary to adapt the authorized activities in order to better meet the demand for care. With regard to the HBO5 case last February, the European Commissioner responsible for Directive 2013/55 on the recognition of professional qualifications informed me that any training of nurses responsible for general care must meet the minimum training requirements set out in the Directive, which was transposed into our legislation in June 2016. She stated that a level of training was not required. This training can therefore be organised both in secondary vocational education and at the bachelor's or master's level. If a training does not meet the minimum requirements, it cannot give access to the same title as a nurse. Graduates will not be "euromobiles". I therefore believe that it is up to the Ministers of the Communities, responsible for education, to ensure that the training of nurses responsible for general care, at patent level 5 or bachelor's degree level, corresponds to the minimum requirements laid down by the Directive and transposed into Belgian legislation. It is not for me to give you the position of each Community on this matter. Some of your colleagues may question the ministers concerned. In a changing health care system, the many current specializations of nurses will need to be rethought. I would rather focus on generic areas of specialization. For these specializations, further training still to be determined, will be supplemented by real professional experience in the field - for example, two years. The Federal Council on Nursing should shortly issue an opinion that will inform further discussions on this subject. I also consider it important that, as in many other countries, we consider developing advanced nursing practices. They should be subject to university training - master level. In any case, nurses' specializations must enable our health care system to rely on even more competent nurses to whom the doctor can entrust more actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u4	Thank you, Madam Minister. I can hear your answer. It opens up prospects. It is disturbing to be constantly confronted with high levels of power, one of training and the other of recognition of skills and professions. They're looking at the ball. Tell me if I'm wrong, but there are the skills to be acquired, which are therefore defined regardless of the type of teaching that will give them. It can take two, three, five, ten years. It will be the skills to be acquired that will be the criterion for being recognized as a general care nurse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u5	This topic is being worked on through the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, in the presence of the Ministers responsible for education in the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u6	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 6 June 2017, a memorandum of paediatrics was recently issued, signed by the President of the Belgian Professional Association of Paediatricians in connection with the Absym. The least we can say is that this call is extremely strong. Indeed, the conclusion of this memorandum is to recall how "regional paediatric units are critical centres for the overall management of medical and social problems related to children. They must be reference centres close to the patient in close contact with the generalists and the unexpected closure of these units would result in a drastic reduction in the quality of care for children". They clearly actuate the alarm bell by urging you not to separate the paediatric maternity services from the emergency. They support all their comments both on the fact that, if the average occupancy rate of paediatric services in Belgium fluctuates around 50%, there are seasonal peaks and, more particularly, in winter, with all epidemics and viruses. It is therefore essential to take account of winter occupancy in order to judge whether beds are superfluous or not. They also support all aspects of day hospitalisation in order to recall the importance of day hospital care for children, but also to denounce the fact that the authorities do not take any steps to encourage them. They recall the importance of the presence of paediatricians at the level of emergency services for the qualitative aspect, but also for that of savings in complementary examinations. Again, they say that no positive initiative has come from the authorities. Finally, they recall as an argument the correct functioning of a maternity which cannot be ensured without the presence of a paediatric service without forgetting all the issues related to the care and multidisciplinary collaboration in the consultations. They draw a picture fully in line with the reality on the ground, which I can testify to. But it's an alarm bell for you! You met them in October 2016. Since then, a layer has been added at the level of their call, if I read the memorandum of June 6, 2017, what one can understand, given the announcements made and the way in which you advance on the reform of the hospital landscape. Minister, will you take into account the various elements put forward by the paediatricians? What is your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, as you certainly know, there are various aspects to the policy of reshaping the hospital landscape and, given the federal competence in this area, the restructuring of the supply is based on two essential concepts: the networking of hospitals and the programming of care missions. The first step is the formation of local and regional hospital networks. These networks must be able to provide all basic care to the local population and the whole Belgian territory must be covered by the networks. In this context, you refer to the consultation that took place with the Belgian Academy of Paediatrics and the Flemish Association of Paediatrics. The discussions covered, inter alia, the introduction of specific professional qualifications in the field of paediatrics at level 3 and the new needs for paediatrics. In addition, we will soon receive a delegation from the medical trade unions on this subject. After weighing the pros and cons of the views of the two groups which are somewhat different, I intend to set up a working group within the FPS, composed of representatives of paediatricians appointed by the Higher Council and representatives of the Paediatric College. This working group will be responsible for developing a concept note for a new ministerial decree on specific conditions of accreditation for paediatricians, traineeships and traineeships. In addition, there is a need for an integrated concept in the field of paediatrics, following the recent cancellation, as you know, of the 2014 Royal Decree setting out the standards that a child care programme must meet in order to be approved, as I have already mentioned on several occasions, in the context of the reform of the hospital landscape. Since the royal decree had been annulled, the procedure had to be repeated. Discussions will take place in a working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u8	Minister, I must admit that I am a little disappointed by your answer. Indeed, as far as the appeal is concerned, you remind me of the great generalities on the reform of the hospital landscape. All right! But I'm not quite drunk! I'm a little familiar with the frame. Second, you come back with the royal decree. I've already asked you about this. All this, I can see where we are going and all the work we have to do again. But that's not what it's about through my question. My question is: "Yes or no, are we going to assess the reality and issues of quality paediatric care, whether in hospital, in consultation, in emergencies, in day-time hospitalization, the major links between paediatric, maternity and emergency services? Are we not going tomorrow, through the reform of hospitals, to close half of the paediatric services?" The question I asked you...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u9	Who said we were gonna shut down half the pediatric services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u10	If I'm not interrupted, I may be able to finish. The memorandum that was sent to you in June is nothing other than an alarm signal, Madam Minister. In this respect, I can only ask you to give serious consideration to the matter with the actors concerned and not to proceed unilaterally with the special powers granted to you by this government, or, as far as the quality of the care of children is concerned, to go straight into the wall. It will not be for the benefit of the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I asked your colleague the Minister of Finance a few weeks ago. The least we can say is that he had made a pretty bursting announcement. In view of the decline in tax revenues related to tobacco, and given the budgetary slippage, he wanted to reduce excise duties on tobacco in the hope of increasing these tax revenues. It is a pure and hard economic analysis, and in the very short term. If tax revenues fall, this may in part be due to a decrease in tobacco consumption. In the medium and long term, this is good news, since it will allow significant savings for social security with a reduction in spending on tobacco pathologies. Minister, are you going to block the Minister of Finance's willingness to reduce excise duty on tobacco or not? Indeed, price is the most important factor in reducing tobacco consumption. This is scientifically proven by international studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u12	Mrs. Fonck, miracles exist. Indeed, on this point, we agree. This last commission is a holiday. I can confirm to you that, although this is a responsibility of the Minister of Finance, in recent years we have put in place a consistent excise policy within the government. This policy was implemented within the framework of the tax shift agreement, in which it was decided to increase the net salary of citizens while making choices that are bad for health less attractive. Especially since, as you have already said, the price has a great influence in the purchase decision. In the light of this certainty and vision, we have focused, on the one hand, on certain products (rolling tobacco) and, on the other, on price arrangements (specific and minimum excise duties). I remain convinced that this is the right approach and I will continue to defend this point of view. On the other hand, I agree that a reduction in the amount of excise duty means less smoking. When faced with a large number of people, it can be seen that few people still smoke. Other measures are obviously necessary, but in terms of public health, a bad signal would be sent by reducing the rate of excise duty. It seems that the Minister of Finance has a different point of view than mine. But I will defend my views within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u13	Minister, you agree, it's good and it's already one thing. But I'm waiting for the rest. Indeed, this is not the first time you have had a difference with the rest of the government. And, unfortunately, in the past, it was not you who won. I therefore ask you for the utmost vigilance and that of all your colleagues in this government. In any event, when I asked Minister Van Overtveld, two or three weeks ago in plenary, he left the door open. Furthermore, I would like to take this opportunity to say that Belgium does not have an ambitious policy in this area. France has set the price of the cigarette package at ten euros. She set up a neutral package. As far as we are concerned, we are still waiting for these announcements, as well as the complete ban on advertising or the ban on smoking in cars to protect minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u14	Mrs Jadin, absent, is excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I have asked several questions to various ministers, including you, about the follow-up to the diesel gates scandal. Often I only get answers to a fraction of my questions and I am referred to for the rest of the questions, creating a kind of endless ping-pong game. We all know the existence of an action plan and a follow-up table. It is now high time to implement the recommendations of the special parliamentary committee. I once asked you a question about air pollution in plenary, and yesterday this issue was again raised in the newspaper. In your reply, you said that the National Plan on Environment Health does take into account the potential effects of air pollution on our health and that there is a project in progress to train health experts on the impact of environmental factors on health. You also said at the time that you are striving to implement the World Health Organisation's guidelines. We've moved on for a long time now. Madam Secretary, what is the status of the project to train health experts? What guidelines have already been implemented by the World Health Organisation and which have not yet been implemented? What's the timing? My final question has already been put to Ministers Marghem, Bellot and Peeters, according to their various powers in following the recommendations of the diesel gates scandal. In my written preparation of this oral question, I have listed the recommendations which fall within your competence, namely recommendations 17, 18, 19, 25, 26, 41 and 42. Where do you stand on its implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u16	Minister, on March 18, 2016, the Special Commission for the follow-up of the Dieselgate case adopted its report, through which a series of recommendations were made. Under the authority of the Chair, we have already had the opportunity to interview Ms. Marghem. I even wanted to see a review of all the recommendations made. Like my colleague, we are taking a little bit of a look at the ministers to see what progress has been made in following up these resolutions. In the Public Health component, the federal government was asked "to combat all harmful emissions and their effects, to focus on reducing not only NOx emissions, but also fine particulates and ozone, as well as any other pollutants, to continue the analysis of the public health effects of excessive NOx emissions from diesel vehicles, and to draw, in particular, the consequences in terms of health objectives that could prevent and reduce their impact, to strengthen the analysis of the impact of fine particulate matter on public health, with particular attention to all people at risk". Minister, more than a year after the adoption of this report, can you take stock of the follow-up that has been given to these various recommendations? Thank you for the party you're holding for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u17	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, I understand that it is annoying that so many ministers are competent in this matter, but it is true that a number of recommendations from the Dieselgate Committee, which, although they concern the protection of public health, also fall within the competence of other fellow Members. It is therefore a question of shared responsibility. I will give you an overview of what my services are doing in this area. For the rest, I can only indicate in general what the federal government or the Regions are doing. Two projects are being developed for the training of care providers. One project concerns the provision of e-learning modules in environmental medicine for general practitioners and specialists. One of these modules is about the quality of the outdoor air and air pollution, as well as its impact on health. The other project is much larger and concerns the launch of an interuniversity certificate in medical environmental science that will be accessible to all health experts. This is currently being discussed with a number of universities, namely UCL, ULB, ULG, KUL, Ghent, Antwerp and Hasselt. This programme will start in the academic year 2019-2020 at the earliest. I support these two projects together with the other ministers of the cooperation agreement of the National Environmental Health Action Plan. Through the National Cell Environment Health which coordinates the national action plan, I support the Belgian Mortality Monitoring and Cities and Pollution projects. Both projects aim to map the impact of the various aspects of air pollution on public health in our country. So it concerns, among other things, the concentrations of particulate matter but also the ozone concentration and so on. I would point out that in terms of air quality management, the federal government is only competent to deal with serious episodes of air pollution. We are only responsible for crisis management. The reduction of pollutant emissions and the spectrum of emission ceilings are primarily the responsibility of the federated entities. The federal government has supported these objectives through the levers at its disposal. I am thinking in particular of the excise duties on diesel, the adjustment of the tax treatment of company cars – made less favourable for diesel vehicles – and the European emission standards, made more stringent for motor vehicles, with the support of Belgium and, of course, the recently approved mobility budget, which allows citizens to choose their means of transport and reduce our expenditure on company vehicles – due to Cash or Car. For a precise answer to your questions, I also advise you to question colleagues and to ask, through your political group, the opinion of the regional ministers concerned. To answer Ms Jadin, it must first be made clear that nitrogen oxides are the indicator measured overall. Nitrogen monoxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) are not measured separately. In Belgium, monitoring is carried out by the three Regions. Daily and historical data are available on www.ursulines.be. The health impact of nitrogen monoxide or nitrogen dioxide concentrations is difficult to elucidate because, in most cases, nitrogen oxides are emitted or present in the air with other pollutants, such as PM10 and PM2.5, as well as less readily observable and less observed pollutants, such as volatile organic compounds or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Toxicological studies show a significant effect of NO2 concentration on the respiratory tract. We do not have data to quantify over-mortality in a sufficiently accurate and reliable manner compared to a situation where pollution would be negligible and comparable to that of the pre-industrial era, as is the case in the English study cited by Ms Jadin. Nevertheless, there are several studies on national or Brussels data, which I can transmit to you. I also have a summary of the context of each of them and their conclusions. These are two reports drawn up within the framework of the National Environment-Health Action Plan and the Brussels study in the Brussels-Capital Region. I have only one copy, but I can give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u18	The recommendations of the Dieselgate report contained a dashboard to be prepared under the Prime Minister's responsibility. After some research, we found that it had not been defined. We will ask him about this. I wanted to propose to you and your colleagues, at the time of the presentation of the policy note 2018, to devote a chapter "State of play of the Dieselgate measures". In this way, each member of the government would present the follow-up, in the same way that ministers are asked to take stock of the resolutions adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u19	Madam President, what you have come to say was also exactly the content of my reply. Minister Marghem said at the last committee meeting, when Mr Senesael and I asked the same questions, which we also put to all the ministers concerned, that she thought it was a very good idea to organise a coordinated follow-up committee with all the relevant ministers in the autumn. I hope, Madam Secretary, that you are an ally. I see you nodding. Then we have already had three ministers on the line, which will make things easier. Waarvoor dank.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and take note of the information you have provided us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u21	Minister, the MammaPrint test is a genomic test performed on the tumour tissue of breast cancer. It defines two populations, low risk and high risk. This test, which is not refunded, costs €2,850. It's obviously a lot. Last February, in response to a parliamentary question, you said that before considering the reimbursement of this test, you wanted to wait for the official publication of the MINDACT study and the update of the KCE report, particularly regarding cost-effectiveness. The MINDACT report has been out for ten months. Time's running out. It has been published in a reference journal, the New England Journal of Medicine, and it has demonstrated the value of analyzing the genomic information contained in tumours to primarily avoid unnecessary chemotherapy to some women with hormone-dependent early breast cancer. At the KCE level, the last information I had about this study was that it was in progress but it was in January 2017. It's July. Minister, have you read the results of the New England Journal of Medicine's MINDACT study? Will we be able to quickly dispose of the 2017-01 KCE study on the same subject? Above all, what follow-up do you intend to give to this file? This is an issue that is really very, very important for women who have breast cancer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u22	Mrs Fonck, as far as the MINDACT study is concerned, we have of course read this study with attention and interest and the positive results presented in particular by Professor Martine Piccart. These results were previously presented by Professor Piccart of the Bordet Institute at the 2016 congress held from 16 to 20 April. Before publication in the New England Journal of Medicine, we asked the KCE to update the 237B report published on 13 January 2015. The KCE study report is expected to be possible in December 2017. As far as our previous comments are concerned, we are likely to have new arrangements for the reimbursement of tests available in Belgium. It is obviously necessary for us to have this study in order to opt for the most efficient practices, both in terms of diagnosis and in terms of health savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u23	Minister, I note that you are announcing the results of this study for December 2017. It's a long time! I believe that a real ethical issue is on the table. Carcinologists and haematologists already offer women with unfortunately breast cancer to benefit from this test. Some may afford it in practice, given their financial means, others may not. This raises an ethical question. Why continue to offer chemotherapy when we know that the study is extremely positive? We are going to propose chemotherapy that will cost more than the €2,850 test to a woman to whom the test could demonstrate that she will not actually be sensitive to this treatment, and that it could be avoided. Avoiding unnecessary chemotherapy is really an ethical issue. I therefore ask that an accelerator be given. This is a major issue in the approach of these women. It takes the road economically into account the savings achieved by avoiding unnecessary chemoes, not to mention the qualitative aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u24	Mrs. Fonck, you demand respect for the independence of the knowledge centre. I respect the work of the knowledge center. It would therefore be wrong to take steps now if the study was not delivered until December. She started in January, promised by December. The knowledge centre has always kept to the timing. I think their assignment is very important. I also agree with all your motivations, but everything must be scientifically substantiated, so that we do not fly forward in the dark. I therefore agree that this is an ethical matter and that we should not give chemotherapy to people for whom it has no result, or even worse results. Then the question is whether the tests will be refunded. Or are we going to continue to pay for chemotherapy that is unnecessary and seriously affect the quality of life of these women? If I ask the knowledge centre for a well-founded study, I can only wait for that. After all, they have their working rhythm and methodology. We have done the same for other decisions such as the NIPT and the like. If we need a scientific basis, I'll have to wait for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u25	Madam Minister, the central question is obviously not the time that the KCE takes, but that it is an ethical issue – you agree with me. We have a study. I didn't think the MINDACT study would be so clearly positive. I simply note that cancerologists offer this test to their patients; it makes sense, and I would do the same in their place. As Minister of Health, you have a responsibility to move this issue forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I take advantage of the recent UNESSA publication on the number of MRIs in Belgium. I have already asked you about this on several occasions. You refer me each time to the medical imaging protocol, which dates back to 2014. In June 2017, UNESSA published the results of its analysis of MRI needs between 2010 and 2015. She notes that the increase in the number of devices is linked to an increase in requirements, i.e. an increase in the number of examinations prescribed by doctors: "While the number of devices increased by 6% between 2010 and 2015, the number of patient contacts per device increased by 30% and waiting times for an examination increased by 21%." Minister, a while ago you told me you were waiting for an evaluation. Has this evaluation been conducted? What are the results? Can we dispose of it? What are the criteria and method used? What follow-up will you give to the conclusions when they are drafted? I repeat again what I have already said ten times: I plead for a slide from the scanner to the MRI. This would reduce delays for patients. One would avoid doing a scanner because it is possible to do so immediately, while an MRI will be requested anyway. Two tests are performed; only one would have been performed if MRI could be performed immediately when indicated. These repeated examinations cost more, for an immediate diagnosis of lower quality. A reform can be carried out in this regard, through a slide that can be positive for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u27	Ms. Fonck, the evaluation of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Programming (NMR) is underway. I asked the Belgian medical imaging platform (BELMIP) to give an opinion on the programming. This opinion will take into account a report on which the INAMI Medical Assessment and Control Service is currently working, based on an audit carried out in a few hospitals and an evaluation of the data. This service identifies, among other things, opening hours, wait times and patient flows for NMR. With respect to wait times analysis, the evaluation department has reviewed the consumption data to determine whether the implementation of the new devices was accompanied by a shift from CT-scan examinations to MRI examinations. In other words, the evaluation service's study focuses not only on wait times, but also on this shift from CT-scan exams to MRI exams, in accordance with the recommendations for proper use of medical imaging. This analysis is still under way. It will be finalized once the billing data is fully available within the evaluation service, i.e. at the end of September. The service provides regular feedback on intermediate results. BELMIP is preparing its opinion on the basis of these intermediate results. As soon as the BELMIP opinion and the evaluation service report are completed, they will be discussed. The increase in the number of devices will require an extension of programming. A consultation with the federated entities can then begin. However, one element of UNESSA's analysis is still missing. Are all examinations properly prescribed? It would be rather simplistic to say that an increase in physician-prescribed requests is an increase in needs. One of the main tasks of medical imaging is therefore always to better match the prescription profile with the evidence-based guidelines, to raise awareness and to empower prescribers on this subject. That's why I'm studying the possibility of introducing a clinical decision support system. I stress here the need to launch regional pilot projects with electronic prescriptions in medical imaging, in consultation with BELMIP, health insurance, hospitals and doctors. The support for decision-making will also help to continue to justify the indication and to define the priority of the review in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u28	Madam Minister, I must admit that it may be a problem to entrust everything to the clinical decision support systems. I know that this approach is becoming systematic, but it happens differently in the field as far as patients are concerned. In any case, it is certain that quality and performance will suffer. The current system needs to be changed, given the wait times, the lack of MRIs, the cost of scanners and the greatest number of irradiations. I really believe in this shift from scanner to resonance and in reducing waiting time for patients. This will break the vicious circle in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u29	Madam Minister, we have talked on several occasions about the difference in reimbursement between the two types of hearing aids, BAHA and CI. You said that these BAHA hearing aids fall within the competence of the consultation audience insurance institutions. However, I understood from your answer that this is within the current envelope. I did find a suggestion to make a budget for it. This is the current procedure for the reimbursement of hearing aids in general. If I have been properly informed, the procedure is as follows. With a hearing problem one first goes to the general practitioner or should do so, which then refers to an NKO doctor who, if necessary, gives a prescription for a test with a hearing aid that the person in question can then have measured with an audience or audiologist. One would think it would stop, but apparently that is not the case. The person concerned must then return to the NKO doctor and then he must have a certificate from the advisor of the mutuality before the reimbursement can be made. Figures I have received from the sector show that this control by the NKO doctor does not lead to an adjustment of the treatment either by the counseling physician. On the contrary, it is in most cases a confirmation of what was prescribed and measured. The only reason why I have gone over these reasons is apparently in administrative matters, for example a form that has not been properly introduced. After all, all this is done on paper. Madam Minister, is this extra control by the NKO doctor and by the counsellor of mutuality necessary, especially since in practice it does not seem to lead to any change or adjustment of treatment? In our care landscape, for example, compared to the European context, the audiciens/audiol eyes do enjoy a full-fledged and well-developed Bachelor's programme. Secondly, why is that so determined? What do you think of the idea of deleting it so that not only the people who need a hearing aid save time but that we can also save money for society while saving time and administration? Do you have any idea what budget could be saved if we were to delete these unnecessary intermediate steps? Finally, I would like to point out that all these forms must also be sent on paper. Do you have any feelings for doing that electronically? There, too, it seems to me possible to save money.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u30	Thank you for your question, Miss Van Camp. The procedure you describe is called the two-stage rule whereby the prescribing NKO doctor confirms his original prescription after an initial test by the audician. This ensures that the prescriber knows if his prescription gives the patient an advantage and allows for an assessment of the prescribing behaviour. In addition, there is only an obligation for the NKO doctor to see the patient physically again in exceptional cases in minors. In all other cases, a written agreement without seeing the patient is sufficient for the NKO doctor. The nose, throat and ear doctor may ask to see the patient again if he wants to, but that is not mandatory. The a-priority check by the medical adviser of the insurance institution is carried out to check that all the conditions for reimbursement are met. The two-stage regulation and/or a-priority control by the advisory physician is a procedure agreed in the Audiciens Insurance Institutions Agreement Committee. It is said that there is no knowledge of any delay in the application procedure at the level of the nose, throat and ear doctors, or at the level of the sickness funds. In addition, the medical consultant must notify his decision within 15 working days. Last month, the Audience Insurance Institutions Agreement Committee also had a meeting with the National Intermutualist College to start up MyCareNet in this sector, which would mean that the Audicients would already have access to the Insurability Module. Other modules can follow in the future, within a schedule for the whole of the sectors coordinated with the insurance committee of the RIZIV. When it comes to agreement committees, I am not a party to it. They shall agree among themselves and shall agree therein. Now they have gone to the National Intermutualist College to use MyCareNet as well, but I, as Minister of Health, am not a party to this. I'm supposed to respect what the agreement committees decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u31	In any case, thank you, Madam Secretary. From your previous answers to the same question, I had already understood that it is also up to the consultation body to review the reimbursement of the BAHA hearing aids. I will certainly suggest to them not only to review the two-stage system in this sense, but also to use the potential savings by further electronisation of the process to increase the reimbursement of hearing aids.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u32	Madam Minister, in the past care for people with disabilities was referred almost by default to an institution, because there were few alternatives. Today, this care evolves into extramural care and is increasingly being offered a full-fledged care package at home, based on the strength of the person and putting that person at the centre. Support is then integrated into the daily life of the caregiver. The personal budget is a new step in that. However, this raises problems for the sector in terms of paramedical support. In the past, nursing care was often offered on a wage basis within an intra-mural framework. Today, however, people with disabilities live much more independently, in projects such as supervised living and night care. Those involved need not only support for ADL, but often also for other, small or large things. I'm thinking nurse care, medication or wound care. The institutions now support mainly through educators, who are confronted with the need for help in taking medication or wound care either at home or even on day trips. The provision of medication is reserved for nurses, but in practice it is the educators who go on a trip. It is difficult to send a nurse on a day trip for the administration of a few pills, to say the cru. A similar problem arises when home nurses, who are not allowed to operate in institutions, live accompanied and receive night care as such, as they are confronted with such needs. If educators, in their contacts with people with disabilities, are confronted with nurse needs, for example, on a group trip, which way to go and how to cover themselves legally? As has been said, it is not financially feasible to take a nurse on such a trip. Do people with disabilities have a right to home care through their personal budget.... I ask you to do so, because it is still within your competence..... and its reimbursement, even if they are linked to an open institution? I am thinking here of collective housing arrangements of joint committee 319, where budgets do not allow for differentiation in functions. Finally, is this problem recognised and will it be taken into account in the revision of Royal Decree No 78? If so, in what way concrete? Can the certificate of competent helper be helpful in this matter? Then the question remains how to get the nurse involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u33	Mrs Van Camp, the problem you are raising is not new; my predecessors have also broken their minds about it. During the previous legislature, a lot of discussions took place between the federal and the devolved authorities in the context of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health and they have also been restarted. It has been established that strict regulation on the exercise of health care professions indeed constitutes a barrier to the care or even the quality of the patient's daily life. It appears from the facts that it is impossible to have health care benefits carried out at all times by the competent healthcare professional. The administration of medication during an exit is one of many examples. I agree with you that a solution needs to be found so that certain actions reserved for healthcare professionals can be carried out by persons in the vicinity of the patient, such as a caregiver, a educator, a child counselor in a nursery and a teacher, provided, of course, that certain quality requirements are met. They must be trained to ensure the quality of health care. This was indeed taken into account in the reflections on the revision of Royal Decree No. 78. In fact, I would like to amend the provision on the unlawful practice of medicine, so that non-health professionals are allowed to carry out activities within a specific quality framework that are part of the health care system of a specific patient, which is currently not allowed. The quality framework shall include at least the care plan or procedure drawn up for the specific patient, the consent of the patient and the consent of the healthcare professional. This concept was presented at the start conference together with that of a competent helper and will be further developed. In order to provide a broad support for the new definition of unlawful practice of medicine, with its exception and quality framework, the draft is discussed further in the IKW Health Care professions at the request of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. A protocol agreement is being sought, in which all parties concerned can agree and this could be presented, if work continues to progress well, at the November Inter-Ministerial Conference this year. With regard to the financing of home care, the reimbursement procedures for home care, Article 8 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind, there are neither specific rules nor a ban on reimbursement of benefits in kind to patients with a subsequent personal budget. Of course, we must continue to respect the general ban on double funding. If the nursing activity is already financed through that budget or through the financing of an institution, it cannot be reimbursed again through medical care insurance. But if we take care of that, there will be no problem for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u34	Madam Minister, I notice clearly that the problem is well known and that the revision of Royal Decree No. 78 could certainly provide a solution to this problem. So I'm following the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u35	Madam Secretary, during the very interesting symposium "Fifteen years of euthanasia" organized by your party on 11 May 2017, the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee asked Euthanasia for more budget for the electronic declaration of will. You have said several times that you are pro-digitisation. Hence my next questions. Do you support the question of the Federal Control and Evaluation Committee Euthanasia? If so, do you intend to increase the budget for the electronic declaration of will? Why is that, or why is that, and when exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u36	According to my information, the question raised by the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee is not an electronic application for the submission of declarations of intent by citizens, but rather a request for the Commission to provide an electronic registration document for doctors performing euthanasia. The purpose of such electronic registration is to prevent incomplete or misfilled data, to prevent incorrect answers to the questions asked and to facilitate the processing of the collected data by the committee responsible for the control of each registered euthanasia. At present the check is still on paper and each registration document is sent by post to the committee members. Since the number of documents is already more than 1 000 a year, this is a time-consuming task, which involves a lot of paper and stamps. You know that the committee is fully autonomous and only reports to Parliament. The role of the Government is limited to making an administrative framework available to the Commission, to cover operating and personnel costs, as provided for in Articles 10 and 11 of the Law of 28 May 2002. My services are currently planning the further computerization of the processes. I will therefore ask them to consider whether this question can fit in with that, taking into account the budgetary framework. I don't think it's that complicated. In the meantime, we are looking together with the euthanasia committee at the possibility of doing other things in relation to the existing procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u37	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u38	Madam Minister, the results of the RE-HEALTH European project were presented at a conference in May 2017. The project was launched in February 2016 by the Migration Health Division of the International Organisation for Migration. The project had four ambitious objectives. Firstly, linking the main reception areas for refugees and migrants with the health systems there. Secondly, to extend the use of the Personal Health Record and its manual, especially in order to better monitor and evaluate the state of health of incoming refugees. Thirdly, ensure that health assessments and preventive measures are implemented, with a particular focus on children and other vulnerable groups. Fourthly, ensure that the data are collected and stored in a database so that they are available in transit countries and the country of the final destination of the migrant or refugee. Madam Secretary, do you know and support this initiative? Will you take measures to integrate this system of eHealth in migrants and refugees? Are there any European-level or bilateral partnerships to facilitate this? Can Belgium play a leading role in e-health, especially among migrants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u39	Mrs Dedry, the project you mentioned was launched from the Regional Bureau of the International Organisation for Migration. In my previous position as Secretary of State, I have worked a lot with that. It is now the responsibility of my successor, Secretary of State Theo Francken. Currently it has been implemented in Greece, Italy, Croatia and Slovenia. It focuses on the refugees and migrants who recently arrived in the host country. I'm not authorized to do that. I would advise you to address your questions, which are pertinent, to Mr Francken. Should the services under his authority participate in the project, we will examine with the Federal Health Administration what they can contribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u40	Madam Secretary, that is clear. I'll ask that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u41	Madam Minister, this legislation, which has been a long work, particularly with my colleague Thérèse Snoy, has taken up a large number of elements that had been brought into the Ecolo-Groen parliamentary proposals! for the prevention of conflicts of interest. Hence our careful follow-up. Statements of interest were often not always requested, nor was the independence of experts invited to the opinion committees always verified, in particular with regard to toxicity reviews of substances placed on the market, etc. On the other hand, other more independent but non-routine studies were often denigrated by more dominant scientific authors. Minister, the legislation passed in December 2013 came into force on March 1, 2016. It provided for the requirement of a general declaration of interest to be submitted by each person required to sit on the advisory committees and a system allowing each body to establish its own system for managing conflicts of interest. However, there was no centralization of the declarations or guarantee that they were available to the public. Authorities may, but must not, communicate or publish them on the Internet. In December 2016, an amendment to the law was passed to come into force in January 2017, with the establishment of an ethics committee to analyse conflict of interest management systems. So, Madam Minister, what is the reality on the ground? Are persons involved in advisory committees informed of their obligation to file a general statement of interest? Is there a guarantee that they respect and update it? Do these declarations appear in a centralized register? Are they made public on a site or document? What are they? Is the ethics committee established with the Health FPS constituted? How is it composed? What is his investigative power? Is there any mention of the proven absence of conflicts of interest in the opinions given to you by the committees or advisory bodies? If not, how do you check it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u42	Madam Minister, Mr Gerkens has already outlined the introduction in detail. I can therefore summarise this question very briefly. It is about the fact that this law is an important lever to ensure the credibility of political decisions and policy decisions, especially as regards the functioning of the KCE, the High Health Council, the FAGG and so on. We certainly must not be confronted here with situations such as the Monsanto Papers. The Act was to enter into force on 1 January 2017. My questions are as follows. Can you give us an update? What does work and what doesn't? Is the intended central database already in which the declarations of conflict of interest are collected? Is it publicly consultable? Who's on the deontological committee? What is the precise competence of that committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u43	Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Dedry, you are aware that I have as my objective a policy that is based on evidence. I therefore share your concern to have scientific advice rendered independently and impartially in order to use it to support the measures taken in the context of this policy. That is why, after learning the comments of the people on the ground, I initiated an amendment to the original law of 2013, with a view to clarifying its scope and making it more practical, without hindering its purpose in terms of independence and transparency. Furthermore, the responsibility of the chairpersons and secretariats of the bodies concerned is stressed. As a result of my instructions, my administration has set up a group of projects to submit proposals for the issuance of the Act, namely the list of bodies, the general declaration of interest, the ethics committee and the central registry. It goes without saying that the group works in continuity and takes into account the work already carried out before. I'll have some proposals for the new year. I would also like to point out that some advisory bodies, provided for by law, are made up of representatives of the sectors. They seem to have forgotten that in the law. De facto, therefore, it appears that these representatives are defending certain interests. The legislative basis implicitly shows that there may be conflicts of interest, even if those members are appointed personae qualite. So they are appointed because of their qualities, because of their knowledge in the field, but because they have that knowledge there would already be a conflict of interest in advance. That is, after all, something we need to remedy. To answer your specific question, I would like to refer to the example of the Higher Health Council. All its experts are invited to complete a general declaration of interest when setting up a working group. Those whose declaration has expired also receive an invitation to update. The opinions of the Higher Council of Health systematically reproduce the list of its experts. Their respective statements are public and available on the Council's website. Any person can verify that each expert has made a declaration of interest. The Central Register does not yet exist. The High Health Council does have a public register on its website containing all the declarations of interest of its own experts who were appointed guests. The Group has already worked on the composition of the deontological committee, the appropriate profile of its members and their working methods. A KB is being prepared which will indicate the Committee's statutory tasks. All working groups of the High Health Council shall be assessed on the risk of conflicts of interest among members as regards the scope of the dossier. This is carried out by the independent deontological committee. It is therefore progressing, but the implementation of the law still needs to be done. If one approves a law in 2013 which must be implemented by 2017, then one can expect to see through a lot of shackles. We are moving forward and we are on the right track, but there were a few points that proved impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that this law of 2013 could already have been stricter and more complete. Unfortunately, these are subjects where we can only move forward step by step. I take into account the proposals and improvements under way. New elements will arrive in September. I'll be careful. There is a need to have confidence in the opinions given and on which health-related measures and decisions are based.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u45	Madam Minister, we will continue to monitor this, but it reassures me that you said in your reply that you consider this independence and transparency to be very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 19591 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u47	Madam Minister, at the end of June, we were both present at the press conference of Comeos, Fevia and the UBA, which expressed their commitment to take further steps towards more responsible children's advertising on food. You signed the renewed Belgian Pledge there. The Belgian Pledge is a self-regulatory initiative in which a number of further steps are taken in the area of responsible children's advertising for food. The Belgian Pledge also follows the trend towards entanglement, which already exists within the European Pledge. In any case, it is an important step forward: less advertising for unhealthy food, no communication in primary schools and more commitment to independent control. It is also positive that 21 more companies have signed the pledge and that the application has been extended to nine additional channels. However, a number of points of concern have not yet been settled. For example, one out of four purchases are decided in the store and given the well-known phenomenon of bully power, advertising in the store should also be taken into account, which is not the case now. However, there is support for this, as my discussions with people from the sector show. However, a second pain point is much more difficult. It's about getting rid of children's idols and advertising on packaging. However, there are good examples in our neighbouring countries. The monitoring of non-signatories is not regulated either. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions for you. We agree that we are following the European trend with the Belgian Pledge. However, can we not go a step further and take a leading role ourselves, especially in relation to those points which have not yet been settled? Secondly, do you agree with me that advertising on packaging and point-of-sale advertising should also be regulated by self-regulation? Thirdly, transparent and independent control is very important. Perhaps the government can still play a facilitating role, especially in monitoring the non-signatories. Fourthly, where do you stand on the implementation of good, visible food labelling? Fifth, what do you think of the proposals to allow the government to purchase licenses from companies.... Studio 100 is the best known... to use popular kid idols for social marketing, for example on water cans, or to encourage good practices among retailers? Albert Heijn has already given a number of examples of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u48	I did see you there, Mrs. Dedry. The Belgian Pledge is indeed a voluntary commitment from the private sector. It follows and extends the guidelines of the European Pledge, an initiative of some 20 large food companies. In Belgium, 55 companies have now signed the Belgian Pledge. It is actually more about groups, so very large companies. The document, with the participants, can be delivered to the committee, Madam President. It is not just about products, but also about distributors, for example. The list and the document are public and can be delivered here. The retail sector is therefore also involved. The advertising sector was also present, through the Union of Belgian Advertisers. The participating companies undertake not to advertise to children under 12 years of age for a number of categories of unhealthy products, such as chocolate and sugar, and only to do so for a number of other categories of food products if the product in question complies with certain compositional standards, i.e. not too much sugar or fat, enough fibre, etc. No advertising is made in primary schools except with the explicit agreement of the management. Recently, the pledge was expanded from classical audiovisual media to online events, including social media advertising such as YouTube or Facebook. Such national translation of the European Pledge principles was carried out only in a limited number of countries. That was the case in Switzerland, Portugal and Poland. In the Netherlands, the nutritional criteria in the advertising code are inspired by those of the European Pledge. Belgium is therefore one of the few countries where commitments are also made at national level. Because participating companies have to comply with certain standards in order to be allowed to advertise to children, they are also encouraged to adapt the composition of their product. In this way, the Belgian Plegde supports the goals of the covenant Balanced Nutrition that I concluded in 2016 with the food industry, FEVIA, and representative of the distribution, Comeos, which should lead to a more balanced composition of the food products on the Belgian market. So it's a sequel to that. Packaging and point or sale communications are indeed outside the scope of this Belgian Pledge but the advertising code contains specific provisions on advertising aimed at children. Its compliance is monitored by the Jury for Ethical Practices on Advertising, which was also present there. I also note that licence holders of figurines that are popular with children are becoming increasingly sensitive to the nutritional quality of the products on which their figurine grows. Finally, there is the issue of nutrition labels genre Traffic Lights in the UK or Nutri-Score in France. As has already been said, this is being studied by the services for the possible approval of such an informative nutrition labelling scheme which complements mandatory nutrition labelling. In the autumn we expect a note from the administration. I will not anticipate its content, but it is important, as I said at that meeting, to take steps. The question is just how much information should be on a label if it is to be readable. We try to be inventive in this, for example by working with a scanning system, as is already possible with the better bottles of wine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u49	Madam Minister, I was expecting that answer because I know your position on this matter very well in the meantime. The only thing I was really fishing for is whether you could, on behalf of the government, take any facilitating measures to push the sector, which regulates itself, into the back. You did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u50	We are in dialogue and we are examining whether the covenant is being respected. The sector serves facts and figures and therefore carries out the measurements itself, but these are controlled by us. That's based on mutual respect. In doing so, we must take into account the contours of my competence and how quickly we can act on this issue. In any case, with this covenant, we have achieved more than in previous years. It's going the right way, but you know it yourself. For example, the sector recently announced the existence of sugarless children's ice creams and several of them. The expansion we have just mentioned is an important part of children's diet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u51	Madam President, Minister, the concept of first responders is being developed in several countries to make up for significant travel times for relief services. They are usually first aid workers with varying levels of training and skill, equipped with a minimum of first aid equipment and travelling at the request of 112 to buffer pending the arrival of traditional relief. The concept of first responders is, to my knowledge, not currently developed legally in our country. However, it appears that an initiative has been taken in this direction in Fourons. I would like to know your position on this matter. Could this system be of real use? Would it not be more appropriate, finally, to provide for effective and properly funded programming of urgent medical aid? More specifically, what about the Fourons initiative? Under what legal framework could it be developed? Can you assure me that quality control is provided for this service? Has specific funding been provided for its implementation? If so, what are the reasons? Have there been any consultations with your colleague from the Interior on this initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u52	Madam President, Mr Frédéric, indeed, the concept of first responders does not exist in the Act of 8 July 1964 on urgent medical aid. In April, I approved a pilot project to involve a first responders team in emergency medical assistance for incidents in the Fourons region, for which Centre 112 is sending the SMUR. This decision was based on several factors. First of all, the recent arrival in Fourons of an advanced post in the Limburg-East rescue zone, with firefighters with an ambulance first aid badge. Secondly, the finding that in most cases an ambulance cannot arrive within fifteen minutes in the region of Fourons and that the average time between the call and the arrival of a SMUR team was, in 2016, more than twenty-three minutes. For Centre 112 receiving emergency calls, the first responder is not a mandatory means but is available. It can substantially shorten the free medical interval and thus speed up the arrival of a SITREP (status report) at centre 112. The 112 centre alerts the first responder as an additional means under the said conditions. There is no specific legal framework. This is why this is a pilot project. The organisation of the latter does not call into question the desirability of effective programming of the means of emergency medical aid. On the part of the Public Health FPS, no investment was made in the implementation of the pilot project. The pilot project was launched as part of a close collaboration between the Directorate-General for Centre 112 of Hasselt, under the Directorate-General for Civil Safety of the Interior FPS and the Limburg Health Inspectorate. We will continue to work together, my colleague, Minister Jambon and I, on all urgent medical assistance. This project was developed because the deadline was problematic. More than twenty-three minutes before speaking, I do not think this is a good sign for the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Far from the idea of challenging the quality of the pilot project. I would like to be informed about the evaluation of this pilot project and possible future programming. I checked in the field and, indeed, on several occasions, these response teams arrive well before the SMUR or the medical services. I have concrete examples. Fourons is a special place in our country. Like the President, I live in rural areas and I would be curious to know where the rescue services are in Belgium, where it takes more than fifteen minutes to arrive. I suppose there's a record and I think there's one, just in my borough, I could already quote a few. Private ASBL initiatives (e.g. intervention helicopters) have taken place to address these shortcomings. I would not like the experience – although very generous – to be limited to this part of the territory. It seems to me desirable to envisage in the future, in the event of conclusive results, a generalisation of this possibility – without, of course, going against the interventions of the classical SMURs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u54	Madam Minister, recently Flemish psychologists wrote to you and Minister Vandeurzen of the Flemish Government about the self-explained specialists, the so-called burn-out coaches. According to them, more and more charlatans appear, without education or background in healthcare, medicine or psychology. If so, we can assume that the patients are at greater risk, in the sense that more harm than good is done. According to these Flemish psychologists, they apparently charge excessive fees for their services. At best, it's about novice doctors or psychologists, but of course they don't always have enough luggage to help someone with a burn-out. In the discussion of the mental health law, the sector has already raised the issue. It was feared that psychotherapists, who would fall outside the new law, would use different names. At that time, we said that there was a risk. If I understand the complaint of the Flemish psychologists, it is now time. By excluding so many correct, good therapists in law, the proliferation seems to increase. You always state yourself that the quality of care is essential, especially in mental health care. What measures will you take to stop such self-declared specialists? I was wondering when reading the complaint of the Flemish psychologists whether the new law does not miss a bit of its purpose. Do you have any plans to remedy that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u55	Madam Minister, Mr Jiroflée has already clearly outlined the situation in her introduction, so I can move on quickly. Many people who used to have a name tag with a therapist or something similar on their door now measure up to a different title. How quickly can you work on the reimbursement of first-line psychologists? With the recognition we have made progress, but if there is a refund, we may be able to separate the chaff from the chaff a little more easily and there will be a more logical flow of patients to recognized psychologists and less to charlatans without competences. What measures will you take to tackle the new group of self-declared burn-out specialists?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you are right to say that the quality guarantee for the exercise of any health profession, and certainly for clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues, is an important pillar for patient rights and for psychotherapists. Therefore, the law of 10 July already laid down minimum criteria for practitioners to be allowed to pursue those professions. Therefore, persons who engage in acts covered by that definition, but who have not received the appropriate training, practise clinical psychology or psychotherapy illegally. A complaint may be lodged with the Provincial Medical Committees. Before the recognition of these professions in the law, they could not, because they fell within the competence of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. Since such professions are governed by the law on the exercise of health professions, the WUG, a complaint can be lodged. It's already happened in a neighboring congregation of mine. Someone has been convicted of treating sick people by laying hands and aura. It is true that the law of 10 July is actually the basis, which stipulates that the definition of clinical psychology, clinical orthopedagogy and psychotherapy can still be specified, on the advice of the Federal Council for the Mental Health Occupations. I have always said that this federal council must be a very important body and that these opinions are important to us. In the meantime, the board has been set up. I attended the first meeting on 6 July 2017. We are jointly responsible. Public authorities need to think and take steps to organise and finance psychological care, especially in the first line. Professional associations and academics also have a responsibility to further professionalise the field of mental health professions. I really believe that the law doesn't go beyond its purpose. I don't understand that question. It offers precisely the guarantee of the quality of psychological and psychotherapeutic care. I will continue to take steps forward in the implementation of that law. I have already submitted a draft for a start on reimbursement, for which I have to receive some further opinions, for the next special Council of Ministers. I hope that the point will be kept, because the demand for an arrangement is high. To my great satisfaction today, I have read that Minister Peeters also considers it an important matter. That means a lot more who will want to make the necessary money available. I will continue to defend that this huge gap in our care needs to be filled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u57	You are right that it is easier to complain about this. I'm also glad to hear it's already happening. Because I didn't know that. I insist that everything remains rather fuzzy at the moment. The federal council has yet to start working. We will therefore follow up on this work. I hope he succeeds in setting out a good framework to separate the chaff from the wheat. By the way, I would like to join what Mr Dedry says. When a refund is made, it will be easier to intervene because it will become clearer. I note with satisfaction that there is a possible reflection trail for a partial refund. I hope that will result in a proper measure. We'll follow it. I look forward, like you, to the great Council of Ministers. I suppose we'll definitely talk about this after the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u58	Thank you for your answers. We will follow the matter closely. I am pleased that you are supported in that dossier by Minister Peeters. For family care, it's a different pair of sleeves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u59	Madam Minister, when you announced last year your decision to save money in our health care by reducing the refunds of antibiotics, nasal sprays and antacids, we strongly denounced the cost-saving measure that would undoubtedly be carried out on patients' backs. Finally, this measure seems, at first, to have been counterproductive in your head, since, according to an analysis carried out by the University of Antwerp, it would have generated not savings but rather additional costs. Indeed, following your announcement, prescription antacids and nasal sprays saw their sales explode in November and December 2016, resulting in an estimated additional cost of €5 million for health care insurance. Minister, do you confirm the information that the decision to reduce the reimbursement of nasal and antacid sprays resulted in an additional cost of €5 million for health care insurance in November and December 2016? What is your analysis of this situation? Have you considered this possible reaction of patients and prescribers in calculating the savings to be achieved? Are you considering compensation measures? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u60	Mr Senesael, thank you for your question. My services at INAMI do not yet have the data on the reimbursement of medicines for the month of December 2016! However, based on information from the evolution of drug delivery figures by publicly available clinics, in November and December 2016 there was a refund of a higher number than the monthly average of packs of corticosteroids for intranasal use and proton pump inhibitors. Our hypothesis is that, following the announcements in the press of the increase of the moderator ticket, the patients went to the pharmacy with the prescriptions in their possession, after asking their doctor for unnecessary prescriptions from a medical perspective. It should be noted that the delivery figures for these drugs in 2017 are decreasing as early as February, with in February, March and April 2017, an average number of packs issued lower than the average monthly number issued in 2015 and 2016. This means that while there was first an increase, it was followed by a decrease. This increase in delivery, and therefore the cost of INAMI, has been very limited in time. The decrease in issuances in the first quarter of 2017 already offsets, in large part, the higher spending at the end of 2016. In addition, the new reimbursement conditions having come into effect on 1 April 2017, the costs of INAMI will be further reduced, with a total INAMI cost of medicines in 2017 that will be lower than the cost of the years 2015 and 2016. In the end, I expect savings to be realized at the level of INAMI. I am therefore not considering any compensation measures. On the other hand, I find it really stupid to issue prescriptions of ten nasal sprays, which, given their expiry date, are also limited in time. I wonder if that's a sensible attitude. I doubt that's a decent amount of prescription. Everyone has to take their own responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, you're bringing your thoughts to it. I do not necessarily share it because it is also about the citizens' portfolio. When one announces increases, there is a reflex that one can find normal or even justified by the savings that this reaction can generate. You will have to wait for the numbers, as you mentioned, to have a more detailed analysis, depending on what you are announcing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u62	Madam Minister, we may all have received a letter from the Ambulanciers' Union in which they denounce a great deal of inequality. Some ambulance workers work under the ambulance status and others apparently do not. Although these people do exactly the same work, they work under completely different working conditions. It is pointed out that ambulance workers working for private companies often have minimum working conditions, which are often not respected. In a number of cases, they fall prey to bogus contracts and abuse by sometimes being registered as volunteers in order to reduce costs. The ambulance union has been working for a long time for a general ambulance status for all ambulance workers and ambulance workers working in the sector. In their view, that is the only right choice to give these people the working conditions they deserve. Madam Minister, are there any ideas being put out to solve this problem and to correct the injustice that is being raised here? I would like to hear from you the extent to which that is so. I would also be interested to know exactly who is competent. I don't quite see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u63	Madam Minister, my colleague has outlined the problem. There are different statutes for the same work. I suppose we all received the same letter and call from the ambulance union. I have the following questions. What is your opinion on the generalisation of a uniform ambulance status for all ambulance workers employed in that sector, regardless of whether they work in the fire department, in a hospital or in the Red Cross? Are you in favour of this or are you against it? Are there any pitfalls or things that cannot easily be levelled and which we do not yet see?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u64	Mr Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, you know that the law of 8 July 1964 on urgent medical aid only refers to ambulance services which cooperate in the context of urgent aid. The paramedics deployed in the context of non-urgent transports are therefore within the competence of the Communities. At present, there is no uniform ambulance status within urgent medical care. In particular, the fire-fighting reform has restored the ambulance workers deployed by the relief zones. In the implementation of the coalition agreement, a structural increase in the annual resources for urgent medical aid was achieved during the previous budgetary conclaves at the relevant basic allocation of my department. At present, the best use of these resources is being investigated by my administration and my services. In the past, no distinction has been made according to the nature of urgent medical assistance, as regards the subsidy on the basis of the status of the auxiliary staff employed. It is not my intention to change that. As you know, the law of 3 July 2005 on volunteers falls within the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs. In that capacity, I can say that the officials of the National Employment Service are responsible for monitoring compliance with the provisions of Sections 1 and 2 of Chapter 7 of this Act, i.e. in the case of voluntary work by unemployed persons and bridge-retirement workers. In addition, infringements of economic and fiscal legislation can also be reported to the competent authorities. Eighty percent of the ambulance workers are under the responsibility of the fire department, a responsibility of Mr Jambon. He's had a difficult inheritance there. What happened? The Minister responsible, Mrs Milquet, has carried out the major reform of the fire services, but my predecessor was not involved. So there has been no cooperation. We are trying to do so now. The plan for urgent medical aid has been made by my people, but it has been fully consulted with the people of Minister Jambon. We also work together for the 911 service. We also work together on the rollout of 1733. As far as the statutes are concerned, there are considerable differences. A choice must therefore be made. If we go for a fully professional corps like in the Netherlands, then there is also a great cost involved. Apart from the question of whether that would be a good thing or not, I have seen a calculation that indicated that it would be difficult to find the money necessary for such an investment. Nevertheless, I have already allocated 35 million re-currents in this legislative period and another 12 million, i.e. 47 million in total. The budget allocated for this purpose has therefore more than doubled. There must be investment in this sector, that is for sure. The urgent medical aid is very important for the people. It is a sector that has actually been abandoned for years. I think it was a crucial mistake not to include this problem in the major fire-fighting reform. It is often the case that two ministers need to be able to work together on the ground. That is the case now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u65	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you have shed some light on the problem. I am glad to hear that investment is needed in the sector and I can imagine that this is a long-term work. In that sense, we will follow this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u66	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It is indeed more complicated than how it is often addressed. I do not think that this can be completely professionalised and that we will have to continue working with some volunteers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u67	Madam President, Minister, we have talked about the medical homes before, and this is a new question in this context. On Monday 19 June the insurance committee approved the recognition of three medical homes, so we were told. There are two extensions and one new medical home. Normally, it could start on 1 July 2017. According to the cabinet, these centres could only start on 1 January 2018 due to a budget overrun. However, I did not think that these extensions were covered by the savings context that was outlined. Moreover, the confusion is complete, because in the insurance committee the three files were approved and signed, while contracts were subsequently signed with a starting date of 1 January 2018. I don't get it. The centres are obviously in trouble, because they want to recruit their staff as soon as possible. I also ask myself where the consultation model in this case has gone. A few weeks ago, on 21 June, I questioned you about the audit and moratorium of the district health centres. Normally, the moratorium expired on 1 July 2017. In response to my question, you said this was November 2017, but now it will be January 2018, if I understand correctly. I just want to tell you that the confusion is really complete. The reason would be the lump sum budget. But those patients are disappearing from the performance budget, aren't they? That's gonna shut each other down, isn't it? Madam Minister, I would like to ask you to tell me honestly what all this delay is for. What's your initial purpose for those medical homes? What's it really about? With the current method, you can take a lot of steps backwards for standard medicine. Gradually I start to wonder if that was perhaps the intention. I'd love to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u68	Minister, my question concerns several aspects. The first, without repeating what has just been said, is that these three medical houses that submitted their applications before 8 October 2016 have received their authorisation from 1 January 2018. In your reply and the exchange we had on 21 June, you did say that the audit would end at the end of November. In reply to your reply, I noted that this moratorium would therefore be extended until the end of the year. You said that it was an interpretation, that there might be both budgetary margins to make decisions, and that, for the files that were introduced in advance, it was as possible that they would resume before. I would have liked to have more details in the face of all these uncertainties. It seems that the Insurance Committee, the Commission, packages, in short, do not all of these bodies know how this moratorium will continue or not. I also took a look at the very long questionnaire on the audit. You still ask a lot of questions to the medical homes, while INAMI and the mutuals have the information requested. On the other hand, I do not think there is any aspect to the impact of the use of medical homes in relation to the use of other care, such as in-house consultations, etc. However, the interest of a care system is also the way in which it influences the decline, for example, or the improvement of consumption in other areas or in other sectors. In relation to this, I would also have liked to have a little more explanation from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u69	I'm limiting my questions to anything related to the audit. On 17 May 2017, the Forfait Committee informed you of a number of reflection points related to the audit of the district health centres. I found their questions quite pertinent. They have questions about the performance by KPMG, the old agency. They also have questions about the accuracy of the initial hypothesis that the expenditure of the district health centres would have increased by 10%, not taking into account a similar increase in patients. They have questions about benchmarking and about the extent and guarantees of sector participation in this audit. How do you feel about these pertinent reflection points? Will you take this into account and discuss it with the audit firm? Can you also clarify how and to what extent the district health centres will be involved in the process in a participatory manner? That will be necessary in order to achieve maximum results. When I speak to the sector, I see a great willingness to contribute to this. Finally, the cost picture is significant: 217 000 euros for the audit. Given this high price, I think it is important to take account of the above-mentioned concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u70	The audit was assigned to KPMG by the services. So it wasn't assigned by me, as I read in the press. Please inform Mr Van Duppen that it is not the Minister who assigns the audit. In the meantime, it has started and uses different methods. The RIZIV cooperates in the provision of the information available to it through the insurance institutions and through the files and other data of the medical homes available to the RIZIV itself. A survey form will then be sent to all medical homes. Finally, there are also interviews with medical homes and other stakeholders such as the federations of medical homes, insurance institutions and so on. The method is similar to that of the sentries. A significant number of sentries have provided data. Small, medium-sized, very large guards have been questioned. That's what's going to happen now, because all these medical homes are very different. If you say that there is a great willingness, that is good news because they will be involved as much as possible. Of course, it is not possible to involve the auditor in the formatting and execution of the audit. That was a question, too. For auditors, there are strict standards to follow: "In the case of an audit assignment, it is in the public interest and, accordingly, required by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Court that the auditor be independent of the entity subject to the audit." The cost of this International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants makes it clear that independence involves independence of mind as well as the appearance of independence, which means external independence or perceptible by others. The independence of the auditor vis-à-vis the entity preserves the entity's ability to form an opinion, without its being affected by influences that might affect it. It aims at the ability to act with integrity, to be objective and to be critical. I have here the document to which reference is made. In reply to the other questions, regarding the moratorium and the date of entry into force of the agreements on flat-rate payments of benefits in kind, I can tell you that I am strictly following the notifications of the Council of Ministers of 20 October 2016 with a view to the 2016-2017 budget. I quote from the notifications of this Council of Ministers. You can look it up, too. In the first half of 2017, a policy evaluation will take the form of an audit on the organisation, operation and cost structure of the medical homes in order to optimise the system on the basis of the results. That's the whole point. If this is to be further developed, we must know whether we are working in a good way. I quote again: "In anticipation of the results of the audit, no medical records will be approved for homes and the budget will be frozen. However, within the available budget, further applications with date of entry into force from 1 January 2017 may be approved in so far as the dossier was submitted to the RIZIV before 8 October 2016. During the first half of 2017, an evaluation of the policy will be conducted in the form of an audit of the organization, functioning of the structure, and medical home costs, with a view to improving the system. At the time when the files referred to were first submitted to the Insurance Committee, the technical estimates were there at the same time as regards the partial objective of medical housing. There was an excess of EUR 5.8 million for this year. The conditions cannot therefore be met within the available budget as required by the notification of the Council of Ministers. As the files met the other conditions, they were approved, but the date of entry into force was indeed fixed on 1 January 2018. I have to follow the notifications of the Council of Ministers, there is no reason to deviate from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have read out notifications from the Council of Ministers. I have to tell you, this doesn't convince me. I have a very strong impression that there is a different way of dealing with auditing and monitoring notifications in neighbourhood health centres and in medical homes. I maintain that there was no need for a moratorium in order to audit a sector that had already proved to be efficient in the past, in previous audits or investigations. I really don't see why the moratorium had to be introduced. You say that there is a budget overrun and that you must keep to the notification. That may well be, but if the budget is exceeded, people will disappear from the performance budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u72	With this audit, I have to establish whether there are any shifts and where they can be found. However, there has never been an audit, Mrs Jiroflée. Why are you so afraid of an audit? That's good governance. There was a study of the knowledge centre in 2008.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u73	I think it was my turn, Madam President. I am absolutely not afraid of an audit, quite the contrary. Indeed, a study was carried out in 2008, which also produced positive results. Then why should we now be afraid of an audit? All I'm saying is that there was no need for a moratorium. This is also true in other sectors. It is not because the budget is exceeded for materials that suddenly no children are born? So it really is a very strict and very rigid way of dealing with a sector that I repeat, I am sure I am in favour of an audit that has proven in the past that it works cost-effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u74	Madam Minister, of all the press reports on this matter, it is already more reliable than anything else. However, we also have very regular personal contact with those involved and I would be particularly sorry if the feeling or perception of them were to arise. I would like to take your word that this is absolutely not your intention. It is true that the study of the KCE in 2008 did not contain the term audit, but a number of things that are now being questioned were already investigated. Perhaps in certain places the budget has been exceeded, but in many other places this is simply due to a large increase in the number of registered patients. So they're communicating vessels. At least we'll follow up on the case further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u75	Madam Minister, I would add that if we combine the moratorium with a proper budget economy, which was to cover a moratorium for the first half of the year, and if we recognise three additional medical homes, there is a risk of budgetary coherence problems. I therefore assume that the overrun is linked to the economy that you have imposed on the sector. Again, this lacks logic and consistency with what was announced. Finally, with regard to the audit itself, the moratorium and the objectives pursued, I wanted to draw your attention to the need to...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u76	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u77	It will be missed, yes! I wanted to draw your attention to the need to take into account the impact of the consumption of care by patients of a service, granted by medical homes operating the package in this case, on the consumption of care outside and on the state of health of the population. These are elements which, I think, are not included in the organised audit. That is why I have concerns about the intention in the organisation of the audit and how it will be interpreted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u78	As Mrs Muyle had not indicated anything, her question No 19703 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u79	Madam President, Minister, at the end of June the KCE presented a very interesting report in the context of the reform of the hospital landscape. It contains a very clear analysis of the number and types of hospital beds we will need in the future. I read the report with great interest. It will come back regularly in our discussions, because you will probably take into account a number of opinions from it. There are too many beds for internal medicine, surgery and maternity facilities. There are too few beds for geriatrics and non-acute care. There's more need for day hospitalization. As far as children's psychiatry is concerned, we have already fought a little rubbert about it. Now I just want to talk about the overcapacity in the materials. I'll skip the numbers. You know them better than I do. It becomes clear that a number of maternity facilities have very few births. However, the report of the KCE also shows that there are too many beds in general. The measures to be taken may be discussed. Should maternity facilities be closed? Is the solution in a shortened stay or in a combination of different measures? I would like to ask you a few questions about the seven pilot projects currently under way. In the context of the data provided by the KCE, they appear to be an important test site. Can you give an update on the pilot projects after one year? They all had to turn in their first report. I've been working on it myself, because the template wasn't always obvious. Are the results satisfactory in terms of the quality of care? Is there anything you can conclude from that? What do you learn from that? There are a lot of differences in the design and organisation of pilot projects. Which organisational models do you think run well and which are less? What obstacles do you encounter in practice and what lessons do you draw from them? Are there any adjustments during the second year? Will you link the results of those pilot projects to a scenario of phasing out maternity facilities? That fear exists in the field of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u80	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, the study of the Centre of Knowledge indeed shows that there is a great variability between all maternity facilities for the number of births in 2014. It's about 0.6 childbirth a day. It's a bit odd to put that in figures, but that means on average less than one childbirth a day, and up to nine childbirths a day. As a result, there would be about 600 beds too many. This study has, of course, provoked quite a few reactions. The question that leads to concern is how to train midwife and students in medical care in places where there is less than one childbirth per day How can we ensure that the necessary expertise is still there? So it's about the quality of care. On the pilot projects, I can say that seven have been selected, and six pilot projects effectively started on 1 July. The interim reports are coming in and need to be thoroughly analysed. In general, we can already see that the projects have made some adjustments to the healthcare path as planned. The problem of communication between primary care, second-line care and patients seems to be a recurrent concern about the projects. The projects are looking for new communication channels for prenatally informing future mothers, but that is not easy. After all, it is impossible to tell which woman will become pregnant in the coming period. There is also a need, they say, for a good electronic file to be able, once pregnancy has started, to share information at all times between the hospital and the first-line partners, including, of course, the midwife. On the basis of the data collected in the first months of 2017, it is noted that an average of 40% of deliveries in the hospitals concerned took place in a shortened route. As you know, the pregnant woman can decide at any time whether or not to take the shortcut. The motivations for non-inclusion were also asked. They're different. In more than one fifth of the situations it concerns the mother's refusal. In one case in ten, it is the social conditions that prevent the mother's inclusion. That's what I said. In the shortcut, however, care must be taken to ensure that there is no problem of continuity of care for the socially disadvantaged. Since projects need to be adapted to overcome specific unforeseen obstacles, it is difficult to know which organisational models are better. You will recall that, when the projects were chosen, I said that there are very small ones and very large ones, and that they differ, precisely to find out what is the best model to implement on the ground. A thorough analysis is needed for this. It will be implemented in the following months. In September, an intervision event will be organised to discuss the conclusions with the project managers and to identify the adjustments needed. A proposal will then be made. The preliminary analysis shows that there is a need for a good electronic patient file. With regard to the transversal needs in the projects, we are continuing the roll-out of the eHealth Plan. The aim is to learn something from pilot projects about future capacity and bestaffining needs. These pilot projects underline that this is also accompanied by a higher workload on the ground for a shorter resting day. You'll have a better say on that. The future needs analysis and programming of care assignments must therefore take into account patient expectations but also the evolution of care, the added value of the close cooperation between the first and second lines and the cooperation of hospitals in the locoregional networks, i.e. precisely where the maternity facilities are located. Several policy issues come together here, but the final word on the study of the Centre of Knowledge has indeed not yet been said. Mrs Jiroflée, you were already concerned, assuming that enough children could not be born. But if there's less than one per day in the maternity facilities, there's plenty of room for many pregnant women.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u81	Madam President, it's never a round number. On average, we're only having 2.1 children. Those are, of course, statistics. Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I will follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u82	Madam President, Minister, several studies have shown in recent years that oxybenzone, a substance contained in sunscreens, can cause allergies and that, once absorbed into the skin, it can behave like estrogens in an organism and disrupt the hormonal system. Indeed, after testing rats, Dutch dermatologist David Njoo observed that this component disrupts the proper functioning of thyroid hormones and sex hormones. Oxybenzone could also cause itching and eczema as well as promote the development of cancers. In addition, a recent study by the magazine 60 million consumers found that several sunscreens, some of which were stamped "for children" contained ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate, a UV filter pointed at the finger to be a potential endocrine disruptor. Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you have become aware of the investigations and studies to which I refer. What is your view on this? Have similar studies been carried out in Belgium? If so, what are the results? If not, do you consider it necessary to have such studies conducted? Do you believe that consumer protection and information measures are necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u83	Mr Senesael, thank you for your question. I have indeed been informed of these studies carried out in the Netherlands, I think. To my knowledge, there are no such studies in Belgium at present. In order to ensure the safety of solar products, the European Cosmetic Regulation No 1223/2009 only allows solar filters evaluated and considered safe by the European Scientific Committee for Consumer Safety. This Committee establishes limit values taking into account all filter properties, including possibly endocrine properties. For oxybenzone, also known as benzophenone-3, limit concentrations have been adjusted in accordance with the opinion of the European Scientific Committee, which has determined safe values for both adults and children. As this filter causes allergic reactions to some people, specific labelling is also provided. For the other filter you are quoting, ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate, a new assessment is under way in the UK under REACH – the general chemicals regulation. The conclusions of this assessment will make it possible to determine whether the conditions for the use of this substance should be adapted. As regards endocrine disruptors in general, new identification criteria are being adopted at European level for certain product categories. This is already the case for substances used in pesticides and biocides. The European Commission is committed to launching a strategy that takes into account all possible exposures, including cosmetic products. The European Commission is also due to publish a specific report on cosmetic products in the near future. My services will analyse the proposed strategy and ensure its proper implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am obviously satisfied with the scientific references and European standards to which you refer. However, I remain skeptical. Some magazines, including the one to which I referred, 60 million consumers, launch alerts that often disrupt the thinking of potential consumers. It is difficult to make the difference between scientific rigour and these alerts. I would also like to thank you for the follow-up you have announced in this regard. Let's wait for the results! For the rest, I would like to give you an appointment next night, in plenary session, for an intervention within the framework of your programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u85	I asked the Minister of Economy and Consumer Protection an equivalent question. We'll see his answer. But it is disturbing to know that there is no threshold for the effect of endocrine disruptors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u86	Minister, because of the aging population, chronic diseases are a real challenge for our society and specifically for our health care. Prevention, patient autonomy and integration of primary care are, in this context, fundamental. As you know, type 2 diabetes and chronic renal failure are currently the subject of specific care routes. They aim to better coordinate and integrate care for chronic conditions through a multidisciplinary approach. Moreover, in the future they could be extended to other chronic diseases. Today it turns out that physiotherapists are absent from professionals operating within these care routes. Madam Minister, could you please tell me if there is any plan to extend care routes to other pathologies at the present time? The functional evaluation of patients but also prevention through, inter alia, physical activity programmes now appear to be important elements to be taken into account in the management of chronic conditions. The evolution of physiotherapy shows that these professionals could play an important role in this context. What is your position on this? Would it be possible to integrate these health professionals into the currently defined and possible future care routes? Is there any specific reflection on the place of physiotherapist in primary care as part of the reform of Royal Decree 78? Has any consultation with the Federal Council for Kinesitherapy ever taken place within this framework? If so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u87	Mr Frédéric, as regards the revision of Royal Decree 78, we have already had an exchange of views in this committee on 14 March 2017. With regard to non-diabetes and renal impairment care routes, their number will not be expanded. As part of the integrated care plan for chronic patients concluded in collaboration with the federated entities, a call for projects was launched. The aim of these projects is to improve the management of patients with chronic disease. There is nothing to prevent these projects from developing actions in the care routes to ensure better care. These projects may also consider actions in the areas of prevention and physiotherapy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answers. I conclude that there is a consultation with the sector, that there will be no expansion of care routes and that in a call for projects for better care of chronic patients, physiotherapists could be included in some projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u89	Question No 19750 by Mr Calomne is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u90	Madam Secretary, the Federal Health Knowledge Centre as it now exists is being shut down. In the meantime, we know that the KCE will merge with other government agencies. Following the first merger of the Scientific Institute for Public Health and the Centre for Research in Veterinary and Agrochemistry, the KCE and the High Health Council will also be added at the beginning of 2019. I've been told that some members of the board of the KCE are calling the bell. They fear that intellectual independence and objectivity, two of the KCE's seven core values, will be compromised. At present, the Management Board consists of political representation and stakeholders representing the interests of health insurance funds, doctors and patients. The proposal now before us is about a board of directors without stakeholders. According to a number of members, a critical voice that benefits the policy and the citizen is thus missing, a voice that has often had an impact on the decision-making process of the policy-maker. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions. Firstly, is it true that in future only political representatives will be part of the board of directors? Secondly, are you not afraid that this will jeopardise the objectivity and integrity of the consultation process? Especially in the selection of investigations one fears censorship, whatever that may mean in this. After all, politicians are the first customers. Thirdly, what are the discussions about this? When will they be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u91	First of all, Mrs Jiroflée, I do not agree with your introduction, in which you say that the federal knowledge centre will be shut down. That is not the case at all. It continues to exist but it will function within a greater unity. It will preserve its independence, objectivity and integrity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u92	Immediately agreed, Madam Minister, that word was wrongly chosen. I should have said fusion instead of shut down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u93	As foreseen in the vision paper on the redesign of the health care administration of 14 June 2016, the knowledge centre, the institution founded by Sciensano, the Scientific Institute for Health, CODA and the High Health Council will merge into one institution. Currently, the draft text of the fusion institution Sciensano, which is used as a starting point in the negotiations, provides that the Board of Directors is composed of two representatives from the academic world, two from the Public Health Office, one representative from the RIZIV, one representative from the Federal Medicines Agency and one representative from the Federal Food Agency. The Management Board shall be audited by the General Board, which shall have a more extensive representation of stakeholders. Without prejudging the final decision, several proposals were made during the negotiations to provide for a more extensive stakeholder representation, including representatives of hospitals, doctors, patients and so on within the new institution. That is already the case with the KCE, as you know. It goes without saying that independence, objectivity and integrity are important factors in a scientific institution that formulates policy advice. This applies not only to the knowledge centre but also to Sciensano and the High Health Council. I will therefore ensure that the values mentioned above are monitored within the new institution. There are currently discussions between the leading officials of the knowledge centre, Sciensano, the High Health Council and representatives of my policy cell on the strategy, governance, organisation, identity and independence of that new fusion institution. By the end of July, early August, a proposal will be drawn up and the draft text Sciensano will be amended as necessary. Every now and then there are echoes of disgruntled people from the ongoing negotiations, who contact MEPs or go to the press. It can be the nutrition for the concerns of one or the other. I am merely saying that the discussions that are now taking place between the leading officials are going very well and that everyone is working very hard on this. It is also clear to them that the independence and integrity of these institutions must be preserved, otherwise this would be the opposite of what we are aiming for. So I'm actually pretty confident about that. I think it's an interesting question, because it's obviously a big operation. At the Scientific Institute and CODA there is a common basis. What is wrong for humans, is usually wrong for the animals, and there is an interaction there. The knowledge centre also has a very different composition. This is mainly composed of scientists with varying assignments, from people with different expertise, who need to be attracted according to the studies they program. Then there's the Supreme Court. In fact, their way and methodology and so on will continue to exist. They're just gonna sit under one roof. They will also cooperate much more and thus avoid duplication of work and ensure that they know what the other is doing. There are also discussions now, but if they are under one roof, it will be easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u94	Madam Minister, I note that you also consider it important that this independence and integrity be monitored. I'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u95	Ms. Sonja Becq withdrew her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u96	Madam President, Minister, you have just made a royal order concerning child psychiatry day centres. This royal decree runs counter to the Federal Council's opinion on the matter. It triggered a chain reaction on the ground, starting on the Dutch-speaking side to expand on the French-speaking side, a few days ago. However, the work of these day centres is recognized on all sides for its quality and the importance of the continuous care provided, by involving the family environment, to the heavy patients (children, adolescent girls) who are in great distress. In addition, consideration must be given to the significant quantitative component, since lists and waiting times are important. The example of the Cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc is challenging. Indeed, your decision will deprive them of 150 000 euros, starting this year, and of 800,000 euros per year from 2020. This represents 12 full-time equivalents. This is in addition to all the significant savings that have been imposed on hospitals. In the absence of a revision of this measure, these hospitals will have to reduce the number of jobs, but also the number of activities aimed at these children and adolescents in great distress. This royal decree therefore gives rise to a total lack of understanding. So I can only relay the point of view of all the actors on the ground, of those who work daily in child psychiatry to call you to reconsider your decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u97	Madam President, Minister, I am referring to the same Royal Order issued on June 30th, setting a number of 16 full-time equivalents (FTEs) for residential beds and 8 for day centres for K beds. As Ms Fonck has just pointed out, the sector, which says it has not been consulted, continues to be alarmed at this decision, which is considered untenable. Thus, at the Clinics Saint-Luc, for example, also taken up by Ms. Fonck, the child psychiatrist day hospital currently operates with 16 FTEs in a multidisciplinary team (doctors, nurses, educators, psychologists, psychomotricians, logopedes, kinesiologists, secretaries, etc.).). With the decision you just made, he would see his staff cut by half. So you will understand the emotion that this brings about. For professionals in the sector, a significant reduction in the number of staff would undermine the very functioning of such services. Minister, it appears today that the proper care and supervision of young patients in these services is threatened by your decision. For your part, you said that your decision had been misunderstood because the 50% reduction in the number of FTEs is expected over three years. For 2017, we would therefore first move to 13 FTEs. However, it is the figure of 8 FTEs for 2019 that is planned and that these services already work "string", as they say. Can you therefore understand the reactions of the sector in the south as well as in the north of the country which considers your decision inconsistent, untenable and uncoordinated? Do you confirm that the objective of the measure is in fact to allow hospitals in the north of the country to open new beds in day psychiatry, without, however, affecting the overall budget? Could you tell us today whether the sector has been consulted in the preparation of this royal decree? In the opinion of the National Council of Hospitals, the latter recommends, as a first step, not to change what is at work and, in the case of reform, to apply "a greater number of points than the simple application of staff standards, since the care provided there is more support than in full beds". Why didn't you take that opinion into account? Finally, Madam Minister, if you repeat that you want to make your decisions based on the concept of evidence, could you explain to us on what basis this decision was made and how the number of FTEs was determined?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u98	Perhaps it would have been easier if the questions had been put in plenary, where I have already answered three questions on the subject. If necessary, I'll repeat it here. Indeed, in previous years, as part of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, I have already made important efforts to strengthen mental health care for children and young people, as well as for adults, in close coordination with fellow Länder ministers. More specifically for children and young people, we have taken steps forward from autumn 2015. With additional federal investments, we have been able to finance more about 250 full-time equivalents, which are used for more specialised care. It's obvious. My competence in the field of mental health care is specialist hospital care. It is the responsibility of the Länder to provide care. The decision to adapt the financing of K beds in general hospitals was not taken without reason. This concerns only general hospitals and not psychiatric services. It wasn't clear to some. It is well known that there has been an anomaly in the way in which additional staff are funded in the sector, in addition to accreditation standards. This is one of the consequences of a series of decisions taken in the past sometimes under social agreements, sometimes depending on whether the places already existed before 2002 or whether they were created after. I found that there was a lack of transparency in the number and method of funding of day child psychiatry staff. For example, a K bed approved before 2002 received funding for a number of full-time equivalents different from those approved after 2002. It is difficult to interpret the funding item that funds the additional staff. In addition, there is also a difference between psychiatric and general hospitals in the mode of financing this type of bed. So, yes, I maintain my decision to promote transparency and to seek equal treatment for all hospitals in the country, i.e. funding based on the standardization of the same staff for all K services. I can only note that this story has been completely distorted in the media. It's weird too. First there was a wave in Flanders and a little more than a week later in Wallonia. That's unfortunate. I'll recap it. There is absolutely no question of removing beds, quite the contrary! The general moratorium has been lifted specifically for such care. If programming allows, it is therefore entirely possible for the different Communities to increase the provision of care for K-beds and to convert beds which are not now funded. This means that, despite the planned conversions in the near future and the already adapted funding, there will be a considerable net shift towards infant and child psychiatry during the year. At the moment, I'm not making any difference in the financing of psychiatric hospitals. The famous testimonies based on internal experiences are therefore irrelevant. In the meantime, I am waiting for a well-documented opinion from the Federal Council of Hospitals to see how to properly fund day beds in child psychiatry. I am open to any objective argument. The essential thing for me is transparency, the objectivity of investments, but also equal treatment. So I cannot accept that there are three different rates, hidden in the law on the financing of hospitals in various posts, and that it is better not to start because everything would be so complicated due to developments in the past. After all, that is not real advice. The standard is 8 and funding covers 16 full-time equivalents. If you want to disconnect the funding standard, you create a dangerous precedent. It means that the Communities, which set the standard, will no longer have any influence and that I will no longer have to take that into account. That is what we are talking about, and I think it is dangerous, but I suppose others might see less bones in it. The intention is to continue to consult with the fellow ministers. In this way, we have the greatest chance of using the federal investments, which are far more effective than those that can be re-launched at regional level. Although the decision to make the financing of hospital beds equal to the normalization is my competence, I have also had contacts with the ministers of the Länder, especially with Minister Vandeurzen. In Flanders one is least far away with the implementation of the programming. In Flanders one stands at 45% and there one can go to 90% by completing that measure. In Wallonia it is at 78% and can certainly be added to a number of places in the psychiatry of children. The budget will therefore increase, since it is actually a question of financing places by changing what is called irresponsible beds, which are currently not covered by funding. The issue may be technical. Some say no one understands the explanation. In any event, the measure is justified. I continue to defend the measure to finance every small K-bed anywhere in our country, in any hospital offering the same quality of care, in the same way. If the opinion suggests that the standard is fixed, then that standard must be reviewed, because it is still at 8. I'm telling you, it's dangerous to decouple funding from normalization. In that case, the Communities will no longer have any powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u99	Minister, you say that you have made significant efforts in mental health care. I still have to see that in practice, what you have given with one hand, you take it back from the other. You justify it by an anomaly of funding, even though the Federal Council had indicated that the funding of existing beds must be maintained. Decreasing the funding in day hospital for children and adolescents who are cared for in child psychiatry is to reduce their capacity, it is to send back to hospital, it is to increase the taking of medication. This is therefore a major step backwards in qualitative terms. You're persisting. You say you want to keep this royal decree, which reduces the funding of day hospital beds in child psychiatry. I urge you to see on the ground how this is going. See the enormous needs by reminding you of one thing: the suicide rate among children and adolescents is unfortunately much higher in Belgium than elsewhere in Europe. If there's anything to remember, it's this one. Check out what's happening on the ground before you lock this choice or possibly review your decision!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u100	Minister, I agree in part with Mrs Fonck's reply. In terms of transparency and equal treatment, you have given a technical explanation that is misunderstood by the field, you say. I will continue to verify on the ground the implementation of this decree. Putting at risk sections as important as those that accommodate children and adolescents with psychiatric disorders seems to me to be very serious. I would not want to undermine the work done by these multidisciplinary teams across our country. I'll come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u101	Minister, this is a major issue for the quality of care and its full articulation with the first line, including general practitioners. I have already discussed this issue with you many times. Funding for on-call medical posts has been frozen. I then put forward a series of proposals in this area. The least we can say, if I have to sum it up very briefly, is that things are not moving forward. You had announced a series of decisions to be taken, a series of consultations. You tried to announce a calendar. You also received proposals from the field, etc. What I have to do with a number of the partners involved is that things are not moving forward. I'd like us to take stock. What pilot projects are being implemented? What projects are now validated? Have they been evaluated – I can only refer you back to your public comments in March 2016 – including in Parliament? Will we finally conclude with these very important dossiers and with regard to the 1733 issue with respect to unscheduled medical care?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u102	Mrs Fonck, the task force for unplanned care was scheduled to meet on 9 and 30 June, as well as on 7 July. The June 30 meeting was cancelled due to unavailability. It was replaced by a meeting in September. On 9 June, the final report of the audit of the medical guard stations was submitted by INAMI. On 7 July, the Strategic Cell presented our new policy on on-call medical positions. The meeting was attended by representatives of doctors' unions, watchdogs, hospitals, INAMI and the Public Health FPS. The four pillars of the new policy on on on-call medical stations that have been presented are as follows. First, mandatory programming of on-call medical stations, to be carried out within four years from now. Secondly, the creation of networks, with structures to be created for medical guard stations. A network-based medical station will have to be located in a hospital. These are networks of 400,000 inhabitants. They will have to adopt a universal and recognizable mode of operation by the patient. The hours during which on-call medical stations will be open to the public will be standardized, because this is really not the case now. In view of the limited number of patients during weekends, the following alternatives are foreseen: either 1733, but only by home visits, or the opening of a single medical post for each network, or the opening of nursing stations in large cities, in combination with the two previous possibilities. This subject is still to be discussed with them. I think it will not be the same in all the regions. Optimization of mobile guarding is desirable, with two possibilities: either an organisation at network level or a management by 1733. Coordination is planned at regional and network level, with the appointment of a Coordinator of the Guards, who will have to ensure quality. As I said, we are considering a size of 400,000 inhabitants per network. The funding of guard stations will be separated from the funding of guard circles. The various partners have the opportunity to transmit their comments to the task forces. The aim is to produce a concept note in September. They had all the information about the audit and the leads. We ask them to provide their comments, particularly on other avenues. As you may have noticed, the PMGs will be able to rely on 1733. 1733 will sort out unplanned care - home visits and consultations - and possible cases of urgent medical assistance. Such sorting will be carried out during the opening of the PMGs. The evaluation of pilot projects 1733 in East Flanders, Hainaut, Arlon and Leuven has not yet been formally finalised, but in view of the diversity of current projects, harmonisation of best practices is needed. The roll-out of site 1733 will depend, among other things, on the implementation of an alert terminal allowing the safe sending of the report of the interview of the operator of plant 1733 to the medical stations of custody and the limited modifications of centres 112 which will appear as centrals 1733. These are, in alphabetical order, Arlon, Bruges, Louvain and Mons. Implementation and dispatch at the federal level are planned for early 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u103	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I have a few thoughts. First of all, I think we really need to reconnect with the ground, because reform of the PMGs is a crucial issue. Create a bond, because it's obviously not going well. Try to put this in a positive logic. Secondly, since you are talking about standardization and harmonization – terms that you have used on several occasions – I would like to remind you that imposing a standardized model of permanence of general medicine will not necessarily correspond to the particularities of certain regions. Work with field actors on this issue. Above all, take the measure of the specificities. Finally, leaving a PMG for 400,000 inhabitants seems untenable. He's not a single doctor, but that's the number you gave.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u104	One network per 400,000 inhabitants. A network is not a PMG!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u105	And how many PMGs per network?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u106	Some already exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u107	All right. You want to link PMGs to networks. There will necessarily be several PMGs per network. In large cities, in rural or semi-rural areas, given the distances to travel, it is enormous. Attention: where there is a good connection with hospitals, okay! But sometimes there are local or regional specificities, where it is done at the level of the circles without there being a full and complete articulation of the PMG in direct connection with the network. You don't necessarily want to re-centralize everything to hospitals. There are interesting realities and specificities to continue. Let us proceed "à la carte" rather than in a uniform and fully harmonized model.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u108	That's not the case. We want to offer alternatives to people who need care that should not be provided in hospitals, but rather in the care of generalists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u109	I don't see why we're connecting with the hospital network. It's something else. On the other hand, this is obviously the meaning of PMGs, but at the same time there is this reality where PMGs are carried out by circles and sometimes closely linked to hospitals. Please, Madam Minister, no standardization for the pleasure of standardization. Take into account the specificities of the field and, above all, reconnect with the field and the general practitioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u110	Questions Nos. 19829 and 19983 by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u111	Minister, as you know, Avastin (Bevacizumab) is usually used to treat various cancers. In this context, it is reimbursed by INAMI. As you also know, this medicine is also prescribed as part of the treatment of Rendu-Osler's disease also called hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia. This is a genetic disease that affects only one in 10,000 people. Its treatment is particularly expensive and not reimbursed in Belgium. Minister, it is my responsibility that this medicine is currently being taken in France as part of the treatment of Rendu-Osler's disease. Could such a refund be considered at home? Has the Reimbursement Commission already considered this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u112	Mr Frédéric, admission to the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products may only be proposed by the Commission for Reimbursement of Medicinal Products (CRM) if the applicant, i.e. the pharmaceutical firm, has submitted an application for admission or an application for a change in the conditions of reimbursement for the proprietary medicinal product concerned. In this case, the pharmaceutical firm never submitted a refund claim in this indication (Osler's disease) to CRM. In addition, in determining the terms and conditions for reimbursement of a proprietary medicinal product, the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products is based on the scientific notice approved by the Minister of Public Health. In conclusion, the Commission for the Refund of Medicinal Products has not yet considered a refund of Avastin in this indication. I'm going to ask him to look into the file and give me an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u113	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would be interested to be kept informed of the development of this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u114	I'm trying to be short, Madam Secretary. At the mouth of President Yvan Vandennlas, the Belgian Academy of Pediatrics states that parents with a sick child should not go to a general practitioner but immediately to a pediatrician. The general practitioners themselves react shocked and replicated that the training as a general practitioner in Belgium is of an excellent level and therefore do not see why they cannot continue to act as a first line for children. Moreover, the pediatrists' statement is touching on the principle of low-threshold and affordable first-line care, not to mention the waiting times that will undoubtedly arise if everyone with a sick child immediately walks to a pediatrician. In addition, general practitioners have a duty to refer patients when they cannot solve the problem themselves. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion on the pediatrists' verdict? Will you do something about this proposal? Or will the training of general practitioners be adapted, as suggested by them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u115	Mrs Jiroflée, like you, I have really taken note of the statements in the media that it is best not to go to the general practitioner with a sick child. From my 25-year experience as a general practitioner, I know that we see a lot of children because people have doubts about going to a hospital watch service with a sick child. They'd rather go to a GP on watch. As a general practitioner we guide a lot of children, often in consultation with the pediatrist. The chairman of the Belgian Academy of Paediatrics refers to a report from that academy. Of course, I am also very curious about that report and how they came to their conclusion. In addition, I wonder on the basis of what scientific research they have carried out. I therefore requested that report because it could be examined. The question is, among other things, whether consideration has been given to the milder expression of symptoms at the time of consultation with the general practitioner and to the number of children who are properly treated by the general practitioner. I also find the rude way in which that news has appeared in the media very unfortunate. I understand that the pediatrist in question has now apologized to the general practitioners. By the way, there has been a letter from a group of general practitioners, led by Mrs Martine Huybrechts, a general practitioner from Wemmel. The pediatrist says it's all a misunderstanding. I consider the case closed. He apologized. But I have no intention of saying that sick children should only be treated by pedians. Not at all. By the way, I invite you to call a pediatrist and ask how quickly you can get here. They don't just get in there. There are even those who don't answer the phone anymore. Then you can't make an appointment. In this respect, the accessibility of general practitioners to people with sick children is essential. I will certainly not make any decisions out of this. I will read the report with more than ordinary interest. That'll be for the vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u116	Okay. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I think we are in complete agreement on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u117	Since Mrs Muylle was absent and had not asked for anything, her question No 19930 was withdrawn. Questions Nos. 19946 and 19952 by Mr Flahaux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u118	Madam Minister, my question was prompted by your answer to another question I asked about the reimbursement of night splints in hallucinogenic valgus. You replied that there was a much broader exercise for more price transparency and more EBM on orthesis (Article 29 of the nomenclature of medical benefits). You would draw up a list of all the products covered by the article and have the scientific basis and, where appropriate, make price agreements. Has that exercise been completed and what is the result? How will the list be updated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u119	Mrs Van Camp, my answer is still the same. Preparatory work on price transparency is ongoing. We need not only scientific assessments but also price negotiations. In addition, the exercise should be carried out by product group. In addition, they are also looking for a tool that gives a clear view of the tools delivered in Belgium. There are a lot of different orthics. We have seen in the pact on medical devices how many different tools exist in Belgium. So this takes a lot of time; people are working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u120	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'll keep following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u121	Madam President, Minister, this question has been going on for some time. They were waiting for the advice of the Supreme Health Council. In the meantime, some advice would have already arrived, but not that about HPV vaccination in boys. Have you received it in the meantime? When are the results expected? What is the advice on zona vaccination? Is that inside or are we waiting for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u122	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the two opinions of the High Health Council on which you are speaking, namely an opinion on vaccination against human papillomavirus and the opinion on vaccination against herpes zoster, are currently being finalised. The Supreme Health Council has validated it at its last meeting and will be published after translation. We asked the High Health Council when that would happen, and that would be at the end of August or early September. The knowledge centre has also planned a study to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of gender-neutral vaccination against human papillomavirus. It concerns the KCE study 2017-04 "Possible benefits of vaccinating boys against human papillomavirus. It will be launched after the summer and will cover at least 150 research days. Normally, we will already be able to indicate a direction on the basis of the other two recommendations of the High Health Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u123	Madam Minister, you can expect me again with a question about this after the summer recess, at the beginning of the parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u124	Madam Secretary, this is once again a follow-up question. In April I asked you a question about the daily hospitalizations, and in particular about the missed opportunity because some of them were apparently not included in the list. We discussed, for example, gallbladder operations without complications. The KCE had cited several examples in a study. You replied that you, with your administration, the FOD and the RIZIV, looked at what could be changed. Meanwhile, we are a few months later and I would like to know if the list of interventions for daily hospitalization has been modified? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u125	Mrs Van Camp, the administration of the FPS Public Health, the RIZIV and the knowledge centre are indeed working together on a procedure to automate the list of interventions eligible for funding through a daily surgical hospital, as it were. There is little point in updating the list on a one-off basis without interfering with its implementation. If, one or two months later, a change is made to the nomenclature of medical benefits through the Medicomut, the list is already obsolete. That is why I have the opportunity to examine whether a method of systematically updating the list of benefits in kind, whenever the nomenclature changes, is possible. Then it's about a lot more than just gallbladder surgery. In view of the trend to work more with day hospitalization, for example in knee surgery, I think that we need to develop a very dynamic method, which allows the list to be adjusted automatically every time technological progress makes it possible to do an intervention by day hospitalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u126	Madam Secretary, that looks like a good slope. I hope it gets fixed fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u127	Madam Minister, this too is a follow-up question, because I have already asked several questions about Natulan, the latest one in April. You replied that the budget exercise had delayed the dossier somewhat. In the meantime, we are a few months further away. Madam Secretary, is the outcome of that file known in the meantime? Is the repayment of that plea, in particular, a fact?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u128	Mrs Van Camp, I had replied to you that the Committee on Medicinal Products had not yet started its work on the budget. Fortunately, the committee has done so in the meantime, thank goodness, because there are already new budgetary negotiations taking place. Work on the evaluation of procarbazine in Chapter 4a was started. I am awaiting the opinion of the Committee on Medicinal Products.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u129	Madam Secretary, I'll wait for that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u130	Madam Secretary, the FAGG regulates access to medicines with us. Apparently, a zero-based budgeting exercise has been launched for a few years to ensure a more accurate remuneration of the agency, more according to workload per file. That exercise would have been completed by now. If so, can you tell us about the results? I wonder which stakeholders or stakeholder groups are currently contributing in exactly what way, and whether the exercise in question will change anything about it, and if so when. I am told by people involved in the exercise that spending increases year after year. I understood that the budget would be maintained or even reduced in a zero-based budgeting exercise. Is it true that this is not the case? What exactly are the amounts involved? It could be expected that costs will increase if the number of files also increases. On the ground I hear that this would not be the case at all. On the contrary, the number of files, such as new marketing authorisations, would just fall. Is this true? How is that possible because costs are increasing? In this context, I would like to focus on your broader vision of the future of the FAGG. If it is true that the number of files is stagnating or falling, but costs are rising, it may be necessary to review the vision of this. Which direction does the agency ideally go for you as Minister? How do you intend to achieve this and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u131	The FAGG has carried out a zero-based budgeting exercise which was also the basis of the 2018 budget submitted. This zero-based budgeting exercise is based on the fee-for-service principle. This means that those who benefit from the benefit of the service provided by the FAGG also bear the costs. Stakeholder groups contributing to the funding of the Agency are still the same, in particular the pharmaceutical industry in the broad sense, the homeopathic industry, the medical devices sector, pharmacists and wholesalers. However, the application of the zero-based budgeting methodology will lead to shifts in the burden of contributions between different sectors. The application of zero-based budgeting will, however, lead to shifts in the contribution burden between the different sectors. This results in a more equitable distribution of contributions by the various stakeholder groups, depending on the services provided by the FAGG. No upward trend in FAGG's expenditure was observed in previous years. An increase in the budget is usually due to the extension or deepening of the Agency's tasks. I am thinking, for example, of all the measures taken following the PIP affair in the medical devices sector, i.e. breast implants that were harmful to health, or the implementation of the Clinical Trial Regulation. As far as your second question is concerned, neither can there be any clear trend over the last three years. There are different types of marketing authorisation applications, depending on the procedures they follow, i.e. national, decentralised, mutual recognition or central. For some types of files an increase is noted and for others a decrease is noted. The assessment of costs has only taken place in the context of the zero-based budgeting project with the aim of drawing up the budget for 2018. The FAGG cannot currently comment on a possible trend, decrease or increase in the amount of costs. The identification of the revenue and cost structure under zero-based budgeting was a first step in a continuous process. The ultimate objective is also to make the FAGG a performant and flexible organisation. Given that the FAGG is funded for more than 80% by private stakeholders, it is also a question for them to have transparency and a central concept when they talk about financing the FAGG. In this respect, a number of improvements were made by the consultants accompanying the zero-based budgeting exercise, which will therefore be implemented in the short term. I would like to go even further in this and also have a business process regenerate within the FAGG, namely how the realizations of the output of the FAGG can gain efficiency. The management of the FAGG will soon be commissioned to do so. Moreover, I would like to take the experience of this exercise with me in evaluating the management of the other institutions for which I am responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u132	Thank you. I will ask for the exact figures by means of a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u133	Madam Secretary, dental CBCT is a new radiological and dental technique. This technique can be applied by dentists or radiologists. However, if I am well informed, there is a separate nomenclature number for both groups, while it is about exactly the same scan. The scope of application is also diverse. For dentists, this is limited to 70-plussers with an existing dental prosthesis requiring a revision of the anchorage. Radiologists, on the other hand, are far more extensive. Why is there a separate nomenclature number for radiologists and dentists, when it is exactly the same scan and operation? Why is there another indication in dentists? More specifically, why is the indication in dentists so limited? I have some examples that I think a dentist could use such a CBCT, for example a benign cyst, enclosed fangs or the preoperative placement of dental implants. Finally, the decision was apparently taken in the medical-technical council of July 2016. Was advice sought from dentists and radiologists and what was the advice of both professions on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u134	Mrs. Van Camp, I must disappoint you. Your question arrived yesterday morning, along with your six other questions. We have asked for an answer from the RIZIV services, but we have not yet received it. It is also possible that it is due to vacation. After all, it is not because we continue to work in politics that the staff of the administration should not be allowed to take holidays. I propose that we send you the reply in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u135	Madam Secretary, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u136	Question No 19983 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u137	Minister, I tabled this question in order to understand the reasons for the cancellation by the Council of State on December 8, 2016 of the Royal Order of April 2, 2014 setting out the standards that a child care program must meet in order to be approved. In the meantime, I went to read this stop. It follows that this decision was taken because of the reorganization of powers. Different technical aspects are not easy to understand. What are the consequences? What follow-up will you give to this cancellation? There is concern that the maternity, paediatric and M sectors may not be part of the same discussion during the formation of hospital networks. Interhospital networks fear being left without a pediatric section. The Royal Order stated that the M Service was part of a hospital with a licensed child care program and a licensed local neonatal care function. What will happen to this objective now that this text has been cancelled? Finally, concerns are raised about the quality of care, as the Order provided for standards of supervision in emergency and intensive care services with different levels of management.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u138	Ms Gerkens, the Council of State notes that the opinion of the National Council of Hospital Institutions points to the need to develop specific accreditation standards for the function of intensive paediatric care. The provisions of the annulled Royal Decree concerning the intensive paediatric care unit have not been submitted to the opinion of the National Council of Hospital Institutions, now the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions. The Council of State considered that the failure to submit these provisions to the opinion of the National Council of Hospital Institutions constitutes a substantial element and, on this basis, declared the cancellation. I have read the decision of the Council of State and have examined its consequences. In the meantime, however, the sixth reform of the State has taken place. In doing so, as Federal Minister of Public Health, I am no longer competent to make a new royal decree. The competence to set accreditation standards for hospital care programmes having been transferred to the Communities in the context of the abovementioned reform, it is for the Community authorities and not for the federal authority to take measures to comply with the cancellation order. I confess that the situation is complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u139	That's what I was also thinking for reviewing the texts. Nevertheless, the fears they express in connection with the reorganisation of hospital networks and whether or not to take into account the paediatric dimensions in these networks remain something important that is linked to the reform that you are going to carry out. I would like, Madam Minister, through this question, to convey this need to take this into account in the reform, which is necessarily linked to the federated entities and their programming powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic717x.u140	Minister, we have dealt with all the issues. Our committee has sometimes been stigmatized for too much time reserved for questions/answers. However, we have reached the end of the agenda. So we can't be blamed anymore.
