ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u1	Frau Jadin, sie haben das Wort. Is that okay with German?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u2	Dank Herr Vorsitzender! Mr President, Minister, it is up to me in the press that the legislation on the amateur brewing of beer will be regulated more strongly. Belgium, the cradle of special and artisanal beer, includes a myriad of amateur brewers, who with passion produce their own beer. The announcement of this hardening concerns the Belgian Homebrewers Association (BHA), since it would limit the consumption of these brewed beers to their creators alone. Beers may no longer be sold or presented in competitions or markets. While an amateur producer cannot produce more than 110 litres of beer, the real risks to the Belgian beer industry must therefore be questioned. Minister, for what purpose has the legislation been amended? What were the problems at the root of this change? Do you think that some amateur brewers represent unfair competition compared to other firms? How many amateur producers are listed in Belgium? What is their economic weight in the face of large beer producers? Is this not a hindrance to Belgian creation when Belgian beer has been included in UNESCO's intangible cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I have already questioned you about the limitations imposed on hobby brewers, but I would like some clarification on a number of issues. I am not going to repeat the explanations given at the time and from the previous speaker and come straight to my six specific questions. Firstly, what is the reason behind the provision that hobby brewers are not allowed to participate in tastings and competitions merely to measure their own brew with others or to be judged, without any commercial intention, whereas in other countries not known as beer country, this is not a problem at all? Secondly, what legislation is this based on and are you prepared to adapt it if necessary? If not, why not? Thirdly, what legislation is politically based that degustations for guests and family should not be organised by hobby brewers on a free basis and therefore without commercial purpose if they do not want to pay excise duties? Are you prepared to revise that regulation? If not, why not? Fourthly, you stated in that regard that a hobby brewer who regularly organises free degustations does not benefit from excise duty exemption. However, it is not clear to them what is to be understood as "on a regular basis'. Does this mean that a hobby brewer who only occasionally does that is not subject to that? Where exactly is the border? Fifthly, you replied that you had your administration examined in order to align the situation between wine and beer in the area of possession declaration in the context of administrative simplification. Do you have any results from that investigation? When would the possible alignment begin? Finally, would it not be advisable to re-examine the whole of this scheme in order to ensure that hobby brewers can exercise their hobby without being subjected to restrictions, which is why they were created? Minister, I am very curious to hear your answers. You will not blame me for having to read them in the report, because I am also expected to be present in the Committee on the Interior. So I'm going to leave the reply to my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u4	Mrs Jadin, Mrs Pas, the rules on hobby brewers are reflected in Article 7 of the Law of 7 January 1998 on the structure and rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. This Article has not been amended since the entry into force of this Act. There is therefore no intertwining or anything, as is suggested. Article 7 provides for an exemption from excise duties on beers produced by a private individual and consumed by that private individual, the members of his family or his guests, in so far as there is no sale. It is therefore a question of brewing beer in the private sphere, without any commercial activity involved. Since it is an exemption from the payment of excise duties, the conditions for exemption must be strictly met. This strict application of the legislation avoids competitive advantage to amateur brewers compared to professional or commercial brewers, who, for the production of their beer, are subject to legal excise formalities. The brewing of beer in the private sphere implies that there is no commercial objective. Hobby brewers are free to participate in tastings, competitions or competitions. However, they are no longer considered as a hobby brewer, but as a professional or commercial brewer. At that time they left their household atmosphere of beer brewing and there are spectators present who cannot be considered as guests of the family. As mentioned above, this is an exemption from excise duty and the conditions for benefiting from it must be strictly met. This strict application stems from the fact that it is difficult to determine whether a person is acting as an individual, and therefore as an amateur brewer, or as a professional brewer. In any event, a review of the 1998 legislation requires a thorough analysis. The aspect of the possession declaration should also be taken into account in that analysis. Any amendments will require first of all a legislative amendment which will obviously have to go through the whole prescribed procedure for the submission of a draft law, as well as an adaptation of the relevant implementing acts. This should also be done in accordance with European legislation, which provides that the production of alcohol and alcoholic beverages must take place in a tax warehouse with payment of excise duties, with the exception of the production by private persons of beer, wine and other fermented beverages.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u5	Minister, thank you. My question was motivated by the fact that I saw that the brewers of the Belgian Homebrewers Association were amazed at the provisions that the legislator – in this case, you – intended to take. I understand that there is no legislative intention. It was misinformation. Perhaps it would be interesting to make that known. A modified countertruth still deserves to be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u6	Mr Gilkinet is currently on a committee of inquiry, but he will be here shortly. We are also waiting for Mr Laaouej and Mr Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u7	You know, Minister, that you have a very important task: you must watch over the state revenue of the Belgian government. That's not nothing. It's about several billions, fortunately, still. Last year we had a number of discussions both in committee and in plenary, in which we discussed the control of revenue and the proper monitoring of revenue, often as a suggestion and a question to you with a view to checking incoming revenue as closely as possible, just because they are so important to our state finances. Certainly after the tax shift, after the sixth state reform and so on, we need a very good follow-up of revenue. Hence my question. Apart from achieving a possible balance in 2018 or 2019, good revenue monitoring will be necessary in any case, especially if we still want to make efforts in 2018 and 2019 to achieve balance. I have the following questions, Minister. What were the revenues realised in 2016 based on the latest figures? I understand that a closure has been possible in the last week. Can it be considered final? What was the impact of the tax measures in 2016? Would it be possible to get an update of Table 4, 54 1803/001 on page 68 based on the latest figures and estimates?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u8	The Minister's reply is also important for the work of the committee, in the sense that I read that Mr Gilkinet has tabled a resolution which would be in plenary tomorrow and in which he asks that the Court of Auditors examine what the realisation of revenue was in 2016. Personally, I think that we should first know what the Minister's position is on this matter and that we should have the tables, which apparently exist, so that we can say in plenary tomorrow what the state of play is, because there is a difference between the ESA approach and the cash approach and so on. I read in the press about 4 billion. Minister, you say that it is actually 20 million better and so on. So we look forward to your answer and I will use it. If you have tables, then it is all the better, then I can also use them in plenary tomorrow. If Mr Gilkinet wants to have that discussion, we must also know what we are going to check if we decide to use the Court of Auditors to check. That is in view of the order of business in committee, because the resolution would then come to the Finance Committee and we would then have to take the Court of Auditors by adopting that resolution. Minister, that is the political context, but it is good that we have clarity on this, so that this discussion should no longer be held in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, this weekend the FPS Finance has closed the latest figures, but they are not yet final. We will have to wait until March. Compared to the 2015 achievements, the figures, which are therefore not yet final, have also been compared to the targets of the September/October budgetary control. I have that table right here, Mr President. It is available on the website of the FOD. You will find all the figures, broken down according to the category of taxes. To your question about an examination of the various constituent components, I can answer that we are working on this. We will, of course, discuss them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u10	Maybe we could split the table? I suggest that we suspend for a few minutes so that we can look at that table. I think we should have that table in committee. This is, of course, not a debate, but that way we can refer tomorrow in plenary to the tables that have been distributed in this committee. If not, we'll get another wells-nothing game there where things are said that aren't based on the real figures. Let's wait maybe two minutes and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u11	The resolution will be considered tomorrow and the debate will take place in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u12	The House is asking for urgent treatment to be given to the Court of Auditors for revenue. No one knows what the receipts are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u13	That's exactly why we're asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u14	You have also issued all kinds of press releases. I read it with great interest. As chairman of the Finance Committee in this committee, I would like to know what the latest state of play is on revenue 2016. The discussions will be possible, but at least we will know what we are talking about. The discussion in the press is a well-known notation game. Now it's about 4 billion, then 2 billion. Now we are talking about ESA on a cash basis. If we wait a few minutes, everyone can look into that table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u15	This can simply be distributed, can't it? Do we have to wait for that now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u16	It is not my custom, but for once I am inclined to agree with Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u17	I'll close the incident later. Once Mrs Smaers has seen the table, she can replicate it. I am really trying to do parliamentary work here. I read in the newspaper today that, according to Mr Van Quickenborne, we have too many Members here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u18	That's in the other committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u19	Mr Minister, my question concerns VAT checks in the context of possible VAT fraud. I have to go back to June 2015. Then suddenly this came on the table as a result of disappointing VAT receipts. You immediately stated that VAT fraud related to the reduced electricity tariff was the cause. This was reduced from 21 % to 6 %. At that time, the Council of Ministers decided that the BBI had to carry out checks in this area in order to detect the misuse and, where appropriate, correct it. You also indicated that the research would raise EUR 250 million, and you wanted to include that amount in the budget. We have discussed this a number of times in committee. In November 2016, you informed me that at that time a number of electricity suppliers were negotiating with a view to reaching an agreement on some 17 000 customers who had wrongly paid the reduced VAT rate. You also told us that the last agreements would be concluded in the last quarter of 2016. That was two months ago. Hence, Minister, my renewed questions. What is the total amount of corrections due to the administration today? For what part of that amount is there already an agreement with the taxpayer and for what part is there not yet a final agreement? In the meantime, how much was effectively recovered as a result of the control action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u20	Mr Vanvelthoven, during the Budget Conclave of August 2015, a revenue of EUR 250 million was estimated for the improper use of the reduced VAT rate on electricity for domestic use. However, in the run-up to the 2016 budgetary control, revenue was again estimated at EUR 41.5 million. It goes without saying that the ultimate achievement depends on the progress of the control actions. The reduction in revenue is to a large extent due to the position taken by the previous Minister of Finance in response to parliamentary questions Nos 22710 and 22750 of 19 March 2014, on the basis of which the reduced rate is allowed in the case of mixed use, i.e. both private and professional use. As a result, comments have been made from the sector on the start-up and implementation of the control actions. Since then, together with the administration, I have repeatedly pointed out the risk that those answers to the parliamentary questions in question would indeed not achieve the desired yield. In order not to hypothesize the ongoing agreements, you will understand that I cannot comment on the control actions themselves or the results that have been achieved so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u21	For two reasons, Minister, I think that is a strange answer. Firstly, you are referring to a statement by the previous Minister of Finance. I assume your administration was aware of this when you publicly said that there was a major problem, that it had to be resolved and that the approach would yield 250 million. Your administration knew that. So if you're communicating about that, I assume you knew that at the time. I find that very peculiar. Secondly, what I am asking you is very simple. What agreements have been concluded so far? What amount are we talking about? The fact that you could say today that we are talking about EUR 10 million, for example, does not in any way hypothesize all the other ongoing discussions? Explain that to me, because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u22	Most of those cases are still under discussion today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u23	But that's just my question. What agreements are effective today? I can still assume that you remain silent about the agreements that are still under discussion, but what has been completed today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u24	Almost all the disputed cases are still under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u25	In November, you replied to a parliamentary question that those agreements were being concluded and that they would be finalized by the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u26	Indeed, that seems to be a little more difficult than we thought at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u27	So I can conclude from your answer that no agreement has been reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u28	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u29	That's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u30	Mrs Smaers, you have had a look at the figures. Do you have another reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u31	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to look at the figures. Minister, I see here a table of revenue according to ESA. You have already announced a deposit of this revenue in respect of the achievements in 2015. However, I would like to ask you a little more clarification on column C, which is supposed to be revenue for 2016. Of course you compare the figures for the achievements. Is that a final objective for 2016? Has that objective been adjusted in the course of 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u32	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u33	That is not the initial objective for 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u34	... to be adapted to the circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u35	Has this been adjusted in budgetary control on the basis of the new fiscal measures announced and adopted at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u36	On the basis of the assessment of the environment as a whole, the various factors involved in the best possible estimation of revenue, as is the case for expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u37	I have here by mistake the figures for the initial target for 2016, i.e. 110,742 billion. Is that about right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u38	If I had to say it by heart, that could be about right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u39	Then I take note of the figures as shown here, the comparison of the achievements with the last adjusted target for 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u40	Those are adjustments that date from the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u41	Mr President, Minister, on 18 January I asked you about the application of this VAT instruction. You stated at that time that the aim was to avoid shopping and thus to achieve uniform treatment for taxpayers. You were of the opinion that this objective was achieved. I then asked you about the data by regional management in order to be able to assess them. I did not receive it at the time, and I am now once again insisting on receiving it. In the meantime, the figures are circulating through a reliable source and we know that they exist. I have also asked several times about the treatment of the initial balance. Your answer is that no detailed information is kept. However, you can also ask this simple question to each of the regional executives. It's probably hundreds of files for each board. The question can therefore be answered without further ado. That's why I'm redoing them. I would like to receive the following information by regional management in the context of this VAT instruction: the number of files submitted, the number of files handled, the total increase in the taxable basis, the total amount of sums returned and the total amount actually paid. Was the non-justified initial balance included in all the files?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u42	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the overall state of play on 9 February 2017 for the files for which the FBI has conducted investigations in accordance with the provisions of the so-called BBI instruction is the following. The number of files submitted is 1 862, the number of files handled is 1 841, the total increase of the taxable base is 539.9 million euro, the total amount of the tax to be collected is 162.7 million euro and the total amount actually paid is 160 million euro. As far as the recovery rate is concerned, the payment period has not yet expired for a number of attacks. As I have already mentioned several times in this discussion, the details of the data referred to in your last question are not available for these files or for other files dealt with by the BBI. Moreover, I do not think it is appropriate to order the services of the BBI to collect this information in a very time-consuming and labour-intensive manner, at the expense of their core business, in particular the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. However, I had asked for the figures to be received by regional management. Your argument has always been that this VAT instruction should be provided, so that we deal with matters in the same way everywhere. That is the essence of my question, and you are going to go around it again unless you can give me this information?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u44	How are you going to see whether there are differences in this distribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u45	For example, I could compare the numbers. If there is no conclusion to be drawn from this, then I will not, but you seem to be refusing to provide that information, so that I cannot even draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u46	As I said in the last part of my reply, the BBI is very busy at the moment. There are other things to do there. These are questions that require a lot of research and distribution work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u47	It's just a few, Minister. The number for the whole country is summing up what the different managements receive. Mr President, you just showed your parliamentary reflex. Here the Minister refuses to submit information that is available to Parliament. That is not serious, Minister. You have the data. You give the total, so the sum of the regional executives. Is that such a big secret that we shouldn't know?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u48	You will then have to ask a written question or another question, Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u49	Mr President, come on, I heard a colleague of this committee this morning say that he did get the figures by regional management, a party member of yours. And he said I'd get the numbers this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u50	The Minister has answered what he wants to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u51	And is Parliament satisfied with that? We must control the government, Mr President. This isn't funny!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u52	You shouldn't accuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u53	You could support a member of the committee's question to the minister, but you think the minister can say what he wants here; you don't care. That's your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u54	I am above MEPs and ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u55	That's obvious. I don't think this is serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u56	Mr President, Minister, we were very surprised to read some information in the press, in connection with the mobility budget, but also to learn what is clearly happening within the department. Indeed, in the 2017 budget, the government announced a mobility budget. You have been asked many times about how things will be put in place in practice, considering that the competences of several ministers are engaged. Some ministers had made announcements, including Mr Reynders in particular, who had announced on television sets that workers benefiting from a company car could choose in the future to have a wage increase of around 450 euros per month to replace that car. Mr. Minister, you were more cautious because, when you read your policy note, you could notice that nothing was, in fact, really decided. You told us that you were only going to discuss it in April with the Minister of Mobility in particular. It now comes to my mind that the FPS Finance has launched a call for tenders to define the concept of mobility budget. I'm not hiding from you our astonishment. Why such a call for tenders when, visibly, within the government, things are not yet finalized? Why, therefore, cannot consultation and reflection take place within your administration itself? In addition, I read in the general provisions: "The purpose of this contract is to establish a framework within which workers who own a company car (with or without a fuel card) can opt, with the agreement of their employer, for the exchange of the company car (and, where appropriate, the fuel card) against a mobility budget." So you're starting from the principle of leaving the choice to the employer whether or not to propose an alternative. If that is the case, I think that this project is very unlikely to lead to a revolution in mobility. What, then, is your position, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u57	Mr. Secretary, you have launched a public invitation to tender. In my question I refer to the number of the public contract relating to the setting of a framework for the conversion of a company car into the mobility budget. However, the interprofessional agreement of the social partners states that they would develop that framework by 31 March 2017. You didn't wait for that. That is why I have the following question. What is the impact of the social partners on the timing they have agreed on, on the public contract you have signed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u58	Mr President, Mr Laaouej and Mr Vanvelthoven, as I said in my general policy note of 28 October 2016, I am not only concerned, but I am also concerned with the Ministers for Employment, Social Affairs and Mobility. In view of the complex approach of the mobility budget, it was decided to carry out a comprehensive study which was not limited to tax aspects. It will then be analysed by the various competent ministers and their administrations. Indeed, Mr Vanvelthoven, the social partners agreed in IPA to look at how a mobility budget can be worked out by 31 March without additional costs for employers, without loss of wages for employees and without negative impact on the budgets of social security and public authorities. The public tender to which you refer with regard to establishing a framework for the conversion of a company car into a mobility budget also stipulates that the contract must be terminated by the end of March 2017. Both proposals will then be discussed and considered within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u59	Mr President, we do not learn much more. I confess that I do not understand very well the interaction between this and the government process. I imagine that this proposal for a contract has come through the government, that there is a concerted effort to coordinate, since we are told that several ministers are involved. Obviously, we still don't know where we're going. I do not hear Mr.Minister confirm or overturn the fact that we are moving towards a model where the employer's agreement is needed to implement the famous mobility budget. So, we're still with a lot of questions. I am also surprised at the lack of social consultation. A public contract is launched without social consultation on an element which still affects wages. It's not nothing. I think I'm getting out of here with more questions than when I came in.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u60	I note, Minister, that the timing of both is the same. It would seem more logical to me that, of course, everyone has their own approach, so that, on the basis of what the social partners are now working out, they can still draw up a public contract in order to refine it further or to transpose it into legislation. I feel like people are working side by side here. There was a time when there was a tripartite dialogue between employers' organisations, workers' organisations and government and they were trying to reach a conclusion together. Here I see that two parties are working together and the third party is working separately. I think we differ on the approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u61	Minister, if I understand the timing correctly, it will be by the end of March. Will we have an opportunity to have an exchange of views in the Finance Committee with the relevant ministers? Studies and analyses were requested. Will we be able to discuss this important structural change, which potentially affects 600,000 people?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u62	You can request this in order of business next week. We need to agree on the people we're going to hear and when.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u63	Mr President, Minister, Parliament recently passed legislation extending the tax shelter regime to the performing arts. We have had interesting discussions on this important subject, which is a good tool for the development of culture. However, I would like to share with you the reasons why the government has excluded non-classical music from the scope of application. In the debate, you replied: "With regard to the eligible musical genres, it was decided to limit the benefit of the measure to classical music productions. These are performances whose production requires considerable resources, particularly as regards musicians and instruments. This means that productions of this type can only be carried out with tax shelter financing. This is a fundamental difference from contemporary music." As much as we understand the relevance of supporting classical works, we do not understand why it has been decided to exclude purely and simply contemporary music creations. Is it just for budgetary reasons? Have you quantified the impact if contemporary creations were also eligible? Is there any other reason than the budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u64	Mr Laaouej, the scope of the tax shelter for the performing arts has been determined on the basis of several criteria. Preparations for the adoption of the law have led my services to meet with the various sectors concerned and to identify the most urgent needs. As a measure of budgetary prudence, the government opted for a selection of the most appropriate eligible genders for this support. It was not possible to quantify an impact if contemporary creations had also been eligible. In view of the functioning, the budgetary impact and the evolution of the scheme, the genders concerned could still be adapted. Since this is a new regime, it is nevertheless important, as a first step, to observe how this new measure will be adopted before considering possible enlargement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u65	Minister, I take note of your answers. We'll probably have an opportunity to get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u66	Mr President, Minister, the principle of transparency regarding legal constructions in tax havens is a good principle, which is essential. We have been saying that since that tax came into force. On the other hand, what we also regret and denounce is the enormous loopholes in the law, which are the subject of articles in the press. These flaws have two consequences. First, the expected budget return of $460 million on an annual basis is impossible to achieve. Could you take stock of the 2016 performance? Secondly, mechanisms are in place, sometimes under the care of the Ruling Service, to avoid this tax. This is the case that has been reported by my colleague Peter Vanvelthoven, for example. Distributions made by trusts, whether in the course of their life or in the process of dismantling, are not taxable. Some tax lawyers are surprised that the breach that exists in the law is not sealed. Minister, could you take stock of these flaws and explain why you are clearly not going to act to make the scheme more effective and fair?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u67	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, the revenue in question is based, among other things, on personal tax and the personal allowance. My administration as well as the collaborators of my strategic cell are following the evolution of the Cayman tax very closely. I asked them to analyse the problem in detail. As has already been said, if the law were to be adapted, I will not fail to table a bill with the government as soon as possible in order to remedy this situation. We have already done so, as you know very well, in the past through the programme law of 26 December 2015 and we will do so again if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u68	Minister, thank you. I take note of your answers. I note that you do not close the door to an adaptation of the legal text if your services confirm that there is indeed a breach in the device. As for the assessment of budgetary performance, I can imagine that it may still be a little too early, but we will come back to you, when the budgetary adjustment takes place in April or May, to see if the target of $460 million has been achieved or not. That's one of the big questions we'll ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u69	Mr Friart is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u70	Dear Minister, you know that in the meantime I have made a number of pleas for a green tax shift, a third green tax shift with a view to achieving our climate goals and greater sustainability. We could do that by effectively shifting from labour burdens to more polluting consumption and production. Recently we also had Minister Marhgem's proposal on the carbon tax. It has opened a debate on this subject and will be further investigated. Hence my question to you. I have read a recent report by the European Commission which gives an overview of Belgian environmental policy, in particular environmental tax. I found it striking and interesting to read that Belgian income from environmental taxes is among the lowest in Europe. In the lists we often belong to the highest ones, for example as regards the burden on labour and some other income. In this case, however, we are at the lowest. That can be said at some point. Environmental taxes amounted to 2.05 % of GDP in 2014 compared to an EU average of 2.46 % in 2014. Energy taxes amounted to 1.23% of GDP compared to an EU average of 1.88 %. In the same year, environmental tax revenues accounted for a total of 4.53% of all income from taxes and social security contributions compared to an EU average of 6.35%. The European Commission will then go further in its report. On the basis of all these objectives and findings, it notes that there is a large margin in Belgium for organising a tax shift from work to environmental issues. In particular, she says: "In a good practice-based scenario, these taxes can generate an additional €3.45 billion by 2018 and reach almost €7 billion by 2030, both in real terms 2015. This represents an increase of 0,8 % and 1,35 % of GDP in 2018 and 2030 respectively. These are already relevant amounts. In recent years, this government has taken a lot of steps towards greening or making our taxation more sustainable, also in order to make our environment and our environment more sustainable, including by increasing excise duties on diesel and reducing them on petrol, thus eliminating the benefit of diesel from the past, and by increasing the rejected expenditure on employers in the context of fuel cards. However, the Commission is convinced that our country can do even better and can do even more to bring about a greening. It would not be a bad thing to continue with this, at least to launch an investigation. In addition to the work started by Minister for Energy, Mrs Marghem, this needs to be done more widely. Not only a carbon tax should be considered as an option, but this debate should be considered in a wider range of possible environmental tax and energy tax. Firstly, have you been able to take note of this report from the European Commission? If yes, what are your findings, comments or conclusions regarding this report? Secondly, will you carry out research and put forward proposals in the long term to achieve such a green tax shift? If yes, what measures do you intend to introduce in the relatively short term and which in the relatively longer term? Thirdly, will you discuss this report with the regions, because they have a very important competence in the field of environment and energy? Will you come up with an action plan to achieve such a tax shift in cooperation with the competent regions? Fourthly, will you take part in the initiative of your colleague for Energy, Mrs Marghem, and put forward proposals in this context, perhaps wider than that carbon tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u71	Mrs Smaers, I have indeed taken note of the European Commission's report to which you refer in detail in your question. However, I would like to point out that the figures used in this report refer to 2014. As you know, we have now increased excise duties on diesel at federal level and reduced them on petrol. We have also increased the expenditure rejected for workers in connection with the tank cards. In addition, the government is working on the introduction of a mobility budget. That's what it was about a while ago. The aim of this measure is to provide workers with alternatives to the company car without any loss of purchasing power. As far as the actual figures are concerned, we are indeed slightly below the European average. We are 2.05 % just on the figures of France and Germany. I just want to point this out. As far as the regions are concerned, there are indeed many taxes in Belgium that belong in the regional sphere. This certainly applies to traffic taxes. According to the report, this is the largest potential source of revenue when it comes to environmental taxation. This traffic tax does not fall within the jurisdiction of the federal government. In the context of this discussion, I would also like to refer you to the September report of the European Environment Agency. This report points out that a shift from labour taxation to a green tax does indeed allow a tax shift in the short term, but may be a problem in the long term. Indeed, the taxable basis will be reduced by increasing the valuation. This may in the long term be a problem for the financing of a tax shift. A green tax shift as such was not included in the coalition agreement either. I say this for the sake of completeness. Nevertheless, I am curious and will cooperate without prejudice on possible initiatives. I am particularly interested in the results of the working groups convened or to be convened on the initiative of Mr Marghem. There is no doubt that the conclusions or results of these working groups will be discussed within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I continue to believe that we will have to do this in the long term if we are to make greater use of climate objectives, greening and sustainability. I am thinking, among other things, of air quality. I know that this was not included in the coalition agreement, but this does not prevent us from preparing for the next legislature. For example, we could prepare a ready-made package that could be introduced at the beginning of the new legislature. That would be very nice. I understand that there is more to it than just asking for figures and the like. Economic side effects may also arise. That's right. A green tax shift gives behavioral changing and behavioral driving impulses. This can lead to a reduction in the taxable base in these areas, because it is precisely with this green tax shift that it is intended to deal with the behaviour of taxpayers. However, we are all convinced that these green tax measures, or at least environmental and energy taxes, will not in the long term be the only taxes that can be applied in Belgium. There's room for a tax shift. There will still be a lot of other taxable bases. I believe in that. So I think there is still room and there can be room to bet on it in the future. I'm still a big believer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u73	Mr Minister, this is an oral question following some of the written questions I have put to you, and the answers to them, because I want additional information and clarity. In the answer to my written question No. 1130 you have stated that the division applies not only to the rental of a room with associated services, but also to other cases. In addition, you replied that if a private individual participates in the transport of other private persons, acting as a driver, through a recognised online platform with his own car, which is to be regarded as a global service, an activity which, as a whole, is 100% subject to the tax regime of the collaborative economy. Therefore, you do not think that the remuneration should be broken down. Although, from your answer, I cannot be certain whether the non-division constitutes an obligation or merely a possibility or tolerance. This is, of course, important in order to know how quickly the maximum of EUR 5 100, indexed, could be achieved. First of all, can you say whether the non-division is a possibility or an obligation? Secondly, if you consider that the situation in question constitutes a global service, can other similar situations be considered as a global service, for example selling on an online platform of home-made dishes as a hobby cook, while at home the dishes are provided by the same person?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u74	Mrs Smaers, on your first question, in the event that was put with your question No. 1130 did not concern the own car which was made available for a fee but provided the private owner with a service, in this case the transport of private persons for which he used his own car. For that purpose, he shall not receive any income from rental, lease, use or concession of that car as such, but only a remuneration for a service provision. In that case, the remuneration for that provision of services cannot and should not therefore be split up and, as a whole, constitutes a diverse income to which the tax regime of the collaborative economy applies. The non-division is therefore mandatory and no possibility or tolerance. Secondly, you ask whether other similar situations can also be regarded as a global service. That question must always be assessed on the basis of the factual and legal circumstances specific to each case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u75	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u76	Minister, the police forces have recently called the alarm in the face of an increase in the number of mails containing synthetic drugs. Censored to imitate so-called conventional narcotic substances such as cannabis and heroin, these chemicals are ordered mainly on the internet and by a relatively young audience, before being delivered to the mailboxes. In this connection, I quote a police official interviewed in the media: "The products concerned are the subject of a study of marketing and are presented in the form of bath salts, pots-porry or other. Their identification by the police services is of course not facilitated. As far as the authors are concerned, it can be noted that this type of business reflects well-established drug trafficking codes. It can even be said that the structures of such a market are changing. The dealer can almost operate from his living room, the middlemen disappear. We are almost faced with a producer-client relationship where cash is no longer needed." In the face of this traffic which could be described as "2.0", some of which is very clearly being played outside our borders, customs officers play a major role in protecting the population. Minister, according to the information at your disposal, what is the current status of seizures by the customs authorities of these postal packages containing drugs? How has this type of practice evolved in recent years? What are the means used to improve the training of officers in dealing with these new techniques used by traffickers, as well as to strengthen the detection tools for these drugs? Finally, what synergies are planned with your counterpart in charge of Security and Home Affairs to better coordinate your efforts against this scourge of synthetic drugs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u77	On the basis of the information currently available in the customs databases, we are not in a position to determine the quantities of narcotics specifically seized in postal consignments. Seizures of narcotics are listed in particular by place of seizure, i.e. the external borders of the European Union and the national territory. Here I have a table showing these figures that I can give you. The General Customs and Excise Administration has recently decided to invest in portable spectrometric detection equipment over the coming months, which will be made available to the services responsible for the detection of drugs of all kinds. This detection device uses the Raman effect, which allows almost instantaneous and non-destructive identification of chemical substances by comparison with spectral data contained in libraries residing in these devices. This identification can possibly be carried out safely through containers with reasonable transparency (glass, plastic, etc.).). As synthetic drugs are increasingly developing, it is therefore crucial that these resident libraries be constantly updated. In addition to the tasks of the General Customs and Excise Administration laboratory, these libraries are now being updated on the basis of spectral data identified throughout the European Union. This exercise is carried out in constant synergy with several Directorates-General of the European Commission, in particular the Taxud. In order to strengthen the action of the various competent authorities in the fight against illicit drug trafficking, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products has undertaken a revision of our existing legislation in this regard. With this in mind, the new royal decree in force will take over the conditions of legal trade in drugs and will also include an approach based on the molecular structure of synthetic drugs. This new approach, commonly referred to as generic, should enable competent authorities such as customs to stop the flow of synthetic drugs, a constantly evolving market. So far, traffickers could make the substance legal by changing only one of its elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u78	Mr Minister, I thank you for the various interesting information, particularly the figures that I will be seeing in a few moments. It is true, as the president pointed out, that the creativity shown by drug dealers has no limit. We must take into account – in particular in the means that the authorities must give to the fight against this scourge of the consumption of these ravaging drugs – postal parcels or the smartphone app that can be obtained directly from the producer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u79	Minister, you made an important statement to the newspaper L'Echo in early February on the future of the Belfius bank. I quote you in French: "I must confess that I changed my mind about Belfius. At first I was for privatization, final point, but as Keynes said: 'When the facts change, I change my mind'." I like it when you quote Keynes, it's too rare! I quote: "Today, therefore, in Belgium, we have four large banks, two of which are controlled from abroad. KBC and Belfius remain. It is important for the banking landscape and the financing of the economy in general to ensure an adequate anchoring of the sector within the country. I do not exclude partial privatisation of Belfius but the important thing remains its Belgian anchor." Your last words are not as good! However, Mr Minister, for our part, we believe that the public nature of Belfius - a result of a somewhat late intervention during the financial crisis - and the fact that we own Belfius is an opportunity that is under-used by the federal state, an opportunity to prove that another banking model is possible in Belgium, focusing more on supporting the real economy, local authorities and SMEs and relying on a moderate and model wage and dividend policy, firmly relying on investments in the ecological transition of the economy, in particular energy saving and renewable energy, and prohibiting support for the fossil energy sector. That's the whole issue of disinvestment that I've already asked you about. It's a model that works elsewhere. I really invite you to study the German bank KfW with public funds as well and which, I think, responds quite well to a sustainable public bank model. If your mind evolves and you quote Keynes, I think there's still some way to go in that direction. As soon as you open the door to a partial privatisation of Belfius - and that is what I have already expressed - this raises the question. On the other hand, despite our many questions, we do not perceive a willingness of the federal government to give a more precise direction and specification to the current Belfius leaders towards this more sustainable model that we call for. What Belfius is being asked today as the main shareholder is to bring back dividends. You're going to tell me that you're not a banker and that it's not up to you to decide the daily choices of the bank, but it's not about that. It's really about giving direction by saying, "In five years, in ten years, here's the bank we want Belfius to be." And this bank must be a model of sustainability. We are not alone in claiming this development since a platform called "Belfius is ours" has been set up and reaffirms this public and sustainable destiny of the bank. There are NGOs, trade unions and civil society actors. As an Ecolo-Green! group, We're pretty close to what's on this platform. Minister, can you clarify further the government's intentions regarding the future of Belfius? It's not about selling Belfius anymore. Maybe there'll be an entry into the stock market. Is the evolution of your mind also concerned with the sustainability, ethics and exemplary nature of the bank in terms of governance, support for the real economy, environmental impact? Do you intend to define, in relation to these important dimensions for us and for the citizens, a specification, a more precise and ambitious mission letter to the bank's management? What exactly do you mean by "partial privatization"? What would be the pros and cons of such a formula? Do you have an agenda on the subject or have you commissioned a group of experts or an institution to study this scenario? Are you ready to meet the promoters of this platform "Belfius is ours" and to hear their expectations and demands for the future of the bank? Are you in favour of the fact that the bank's leaders come to present its results and plans to parliament in the near future, and then regularly? Mr President, I think we need to take the time to listen to Belfius' management. It would be even better if it was with the support of the minister as part of a clear, sustainable, ethical project that we would like to see. That is why I have tabled an inquiry, to allow me to elaborate more on my remarks than on a simple oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u80	In the case of an interplay, other Members may take the floor. Are there any fellow Members asking to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u81	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I take up the six questions that you have put forward. 1. So far, no decision has been taken within the government that would change the current situation in Belfius. 2. I believe that a distinction should be made between my evolving assessment of the structure of Belfius' shareholding and my expectations in relation to Belfius but also in relation to other financial institutions in terms of good governance and social responsibility. In terms of governance and sustainable and socially responsible business, I have always put high demands on the banking sector. No change in this regard. You certainly know that, in terms of good governance, there are legal obligations. These apply not only to Belfius but also to other banks. In my contacts with the officials of Belfius and through the bodies in which representatives of the authorities sit, such as the General Assembly, I do not fail to stress the importance, in my view, of the social and economic role of the bank. In this case, I refer you, for example, to the report prepared by PAX, the organisation for the promotion of peace, on the financing of the nuclear industry in which Belfius is described as the best student in the class. As far as Belfius is concerned, of course I must also stick to the legal rules on governance and to the requirements of supervisory bodies in terms of the well-defined competences of the Management Committee, the Board of Directors and other bodies of the bank. However, I have every confidence in management, which is very conscious of our society's economic and social expectations of Belfius. 3. There are, of course, many possible forms of partial privatization. With a view to anchoring Belfius in our country, so that the decision-making centre can remain in Belgium, we could possibly envisage partial privatisation via a partial stock exchange, for example. On the one hand, this would reduce the exposure of authorities to the financial sector and reduce risks, but on the other hand, adverse effects could be avoided while continuing to pursue the above objectives. 4. As I have already mentioned, there is no concrete plan for Belfius. This does not mean that this dossier is not actively monitored both by the SFPI, which manages the participation of the public authorities on behalf of the State, and by my strategic unit. Therefore, I do not think that it is necessary to set up an additional group of experts - which would indeed be the case if we were to draw up a concrete plan. 5. As for your request to meet the platform "Belfius is ours", this one is welcome to come and present its arguments to my firm. 6. Let me point out that Belfius communicates in a very transparent way, so that interesting information about it is available through sources such as its website. Having said that, it is not up to me to determine who the committee wants to invite or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u82	Minister, thank you. Indeed, it is the committee that decides. I hear you don't object. Of course, all that would be missing! Our committee meets regularly with Belfius, as we do with others. Perhaps, Mr President, should we set a date for this before June? As far as possible partial privatisation is concerned, you tell me that there is no concrete plan, but that you do not exclude it. In your opinion, this could reduce the state's exposure in the event of a crisis. However, this also diminishes its ability to respond. You add without further clarification that adverse effects on ownership could be reduced. I refer to your comments in L'Echo. If your conception has evolved and you are no longer at any cost for a privatisation of Belfius, I believe that you must go beyond this somewhat passive position, according to which everything is well and that the general rules that apply to the governance of banks are sufficient. I ask you to play a more active and ambitious role in the future of the bank. For us, it is not enough to be the best in class, because the level of class is not very high in the banking sector and in the context of ethical investment. There is a way to do really much better than what appears too often as a form of greenwashing, to be content with just being good. There are also counter-examples in the banking sector. Another banking institution in which Belgium is the first shareholder, BNP Paribas, has just been pointed out as being under pressure because of unconsidered investments through US pension funds in the Dakota oil project in the United States, which is problematic in environmental terms as well as in terms of financial stability. This satisfaction by saying that things are not going so badly, we cannot be content with it. We ask for more ambition for the future of Belfius. I'm not pessimistic because your mind has already evolved. You start from the bottom of the peloton but, despite your fall fifteen days ago, I ask you to make another effort to take you to the front of the peloton and show that the Belgian state has a vision of the banking future that is not only passive. We have to set an example of a different banking model and I think there is an opportunity in Belfius. Mr. Chair, I move a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u83	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the response of the Minister of Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, asks the government 1. to commit to maintaining the public character of Belfius Bank and to making it an exemplary bank in terms of sustainability; 2. to define, in a mission letter to the Belfius leaders and board of directors, precise and ambitious objectives for Belfius in the areas of social and wage policy, support for the economy and local authorities, prudence and ethics of investments made, disinvestment of fossil materials; 3. to organise, on a regular basis and at least annually, the evaluation of the achievement of the objectives, in close connection with Parliament's Finance Committee." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the answer of the Minister for Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, calls on the Government 1. undertake to maintain Belfius as a public bank and to make it an example bank in terms of sustainability; 2. formulate clear and ambitious objectives for Belfius in a letter of mandate to the Management Committee and to the Board of Directors of Belfius on social, social and wage policies, support for the economy and local authorities, prudent and ethical investment policies, and withdrawal from investments in the fossil industry; 3. evaluate regularly and at least once a year the achievement of the objectives in close cooperation with Parliament's Finance Committee." A simple motion was tabled by Ms Griet Smaers and MM. Peter Dedecker et Luk Van Biesen. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Griet Smaers and by Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Luk Van Biesen. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The motions will be voted on later. Mr Dedecker, do you have anything to add to that ordinary motion? You believe in Belfius?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u84	I absolutely believe in Belfius. Belfius is currently being run very professionally. Mr Gilkinet witnessed this at the time. We spent many nights together in the Dexia Committee. That was a particularly exciting time. We have seen how dangerous it can be when, at some point in time, a bank in the hands of politics mainly provides funding for cities and municipalities controlled by politics. That was very frustrating at times. Let us not go down that road again, Mr Gilkinet. Let us stick to a bank which is well run and which is further anchored in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u85	I have come just in time to hear Mr Gilkinet's very important point. However, I would like to point out that the motion he is now proposing runs counter to the search for a solution for ARCO. We would really like to be able to find a solution for ARCO within the framework of the partial privatisation of Belfius, out of great concern for the 800 000 people involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u86	I take note of all these opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u87	I will not comment on ARCO, but I see that the atmosphere is good as always in the majority. I hope that a solution will be found for ARCO. I would like to reply to my colleague Dedecker, with whom we spent a lot of days and evenings, and even from the beginning of the night in the Dexia Committee. My party and Groen are not part of the Dexiapartijen. We have not been politically associated with these montages, via the Communal Holding or others. But I don't think the solution is to give all the keys to our banking system to the private sector. In the framework of the Optima Committee, even if it is a small bank, we see that disasters can happen. We saw it as part of Fortis as well. There is a need for strengthened monitoring mechanisms. They were the result of the banking crisis, via the European Central Bank and the National Bank of Belgium. We need much stricter rules, in particular the separation of banking professions, which were not decided in the wake of the financial crisis, and we still regret that. When you have the chance to have the keys, the main shareholder of a bank, you also have to show that another banking model is possible, to give the urge to other private actors to follow a much more sustainable model, with a controlled wage pressure, a reasonable dividend policy, where you decide to reinvest profits in the solidity of the banking world, to be at the forefront in the investments of the future, especially in energy, contribute to the autonomy of our countries. That's where I'm waiting for the federal government and the Minister of Finance. Let us set an example by leaving a professional management to manage daily life, but by giving it much clearer lines than they are today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u88	I would like to make a general comment with reference to Belfius. I believe that what was certainly learned during the black period 2008-2009 is that the division between private banks and public banks is not the right division in terms of conceptual thinking about what to do. I can give Dexia's example. It was a public bank that made huge mistakes. I plead to think carefully about the structures and the regularisations. In this regard, I am a little worried about everything that can happen in the United States when I hear that the Dodd-Frank Act is about to be revised, but in a minimalist way. This is a little disturbing for the international financial situation. I do not believe, Mr Gilkinet, that this is a question of private banks versus public banks. It is a well-thought out, well-installed and well-controlled issue of regulation. This is the key to banking health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u89	President Trump is everything but our model, regardless of the size (acceptance of people of foreign origin, environmental issues, banking issue). It is not the public or private nature that matters. It is the good management of the bank and the good direction that is taken. There are private institutions that have virtuous dynamics. I'm thinking of Triodos Bank or smaller banks. When you are lucky, as a state, to have the steering wheel, to have the orientation capacity of a bank, in this case public, you have to use it to make it a model. We must not do the same as for Dexia, that is to say let a management which has the madness of magnitudes and which takes unconsidered risks by closing its eyes and relying on dividends. You're lucky to have it in your hands – it's an image! – a bank. You must show that it can operate on different bases than other private or public banks. You need to give a clear direction. I quoted a German bank, KFW. I invite you to study it. It is really a model which, I believe, can be transposed here in Belgium, oriented towards SMEs, towards local authorities, which does not distribute dividends but reinvests its profits to strengthen its own capital and its activity in the service of the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u90	With the inflation we know, banks will also loom to convince their customers more than ever before to move their savings, to have a return at least equivalent to inflation. I think it would be interesting to have an exchange of views on inflation with the Minister of Finance. I wanted to put this item on the agenda next week because inflation is still becoming worrying. Not today, it's not on the agenda. I think it would be interesting to have an exchange of views on the evolution of the inflation rate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u91	Yesterday, a Council of Finance Ministers took place and I was able to read some excerpts from the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u92	Mr President, thank you for this introduction. Indeed, my question is relevant since I have been able to understand, following some newspaper articles, that Belgium could leave the group of countries that wish to move forward through enhanced cooperation. This is particularly worrying. This had already been a matter of concern a few weeks ago, because there were signs that there was something in Mr. Minister's attitude, a kind of retraction or prudence that could be assimilated to a slowdown in Belgium's commitment. You would have asked about the impact of such a tax on financial transactions, pension funds and the real economy. We have the impression that, through these requests for impact assessments, when we've been talking about them for decades, you're giving the feeling of stopping things, and we're worried about that. Do you confirm this information? Could you provide an update on the status of the case? Has an agreement been reached within the Kern setting out the mandate you have at the meetings of the European Union in which you are attending?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u93	Mr President, first of all I would like to answer your question about the term of office of the Kern. It is clear that it aligns with what is contained in the government agreement. This means that the impact on the real economy must be minimal, that the impact on public debt must also be minimal, and that pension funds and life insurances must be excluded. In the last Kern on this subject, we raised the point of the level playing field, which means that we must be aware that the Enhanced Corporation group is composed of 10 members, while the European Union is composed of 28 or 27 members. My mandate from Kern is therefore consistent with the terms of the government agreement. What happened yesterday? During the one-hour meeting, we did discuss two of the important elements for us but also for other countries, which asked for more details on the impact on the real economy of certain types of TTFs or other types and the effect of pension funds. We had a very open and revealing discussion. Two camps have emerged, with Belgium and other countries applying for an exemption for pension funds on the one hand, and countries which do not want this exemption on the other hand and which say that this will create false competition. If Belgian pension funds are exempted, pension funds in countries that do not benefit from them will be disadvantaged. But of course, vis-à-vis the 17 or 18 countries that are currently outside the FTT, it is so (...). If the FTT is applied in Belgium tomorrow, the Belgian pension funds will suffer a disadvantage compared to the Dutch or Luxembourg pension funds. We discussed this yesterday and decided that several avenues should be clarified regarding the impact on the real economy of certain proposals and the consequences of introducing an exemption proposal for pension funds. A final point of discussion, which was not introduced by me, was a question of principle. Is this the right time to work on this topic? He who put this point on the table takes into account the fact that there is a fairly high volatility, because of the Brexit and what is happening in the United States with the adjustment of the Dodd-Frank Act, which will have a significant impact. Some members of the Ten wonder if the environment is not too volatile at the moment to be able to decide in a well-coordinated and well-considered way. That is for the various points of yesterday's discussion!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u94	Mr Minister, since the idea of the tax on financial transactions has sprouted and it has been placed on the political agenda, there have been several arguments against it. We will recall the intervention of some law firms, which have produced notes to certain offices and lobbies. It took economists, civil society and even the European Commission time to deconstruct all these arguments. We could continue to find it infinity. The question is whether there is still a real political will to succeed in your leadership and that of the government. The effects on public debt are known. We know they're marginal. The consequences for pension funds and competitive disadvantage are now being invoked. However, if a pension fund does not engage in hundreds or even thousands of financial market transactions on a daily basis from the same underlying source, the cost will be marginal. In other words, if he engages in a cover operation, supporting it will not be a burdensome task. Similarly, if a pension fund makes an investment, a tax rate as low as 0.1% is also not likely to increase the burden. So I feel like we're trying to save time. Every time a study is commissioned, it takes a few months. Once she's home, something will happen again. Then we'll ask for another one. At some point, civil society is calling on you to tell you that you are trying to save time. I am really beginning to doubt your political will to succeed. This is damaging, because I remember reports that had been sent to the U.S. Senate by very high-level economists who had explained that, had there been a FTT (financial transaction tax), the subprime crisis could have been avoided in 2008. In other words, the question is whether it is better to have a small cost, now, on certain financial institutions or financial operators or to have a huge one, tomorrow, if we do not regulate international finance sufficiently. This is the calculation! It is not to say, "But here, the pension funds will pay a little more or there will be a small impact on the public debt." The question is to see that, as a result of the 2008 financial crisis, the debt from 83 per cent of GDP to 107 per cent of GDP has changed. We have still not come out of the unfortunate consequences of the 2008 crisis; not to mention the economic recession and the impact on our budget deficit, our tax revenues, etc. So today's low cost will help avoid large costs tomorrow. That's the calculation that needs to be made. You must be able to resist some lobbies who will always tell you that a euro paid is a euro too much. At some point, we must also think of the general interest and this requires a domestication of finance. It must be seen as an instrument of regulation. I think we're wasting too much time. We are not immune to a new financial crisis; we must never lose sight of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u95	Questions Nos 16733, 16734, 16856 and 16857 by Mr Van Biesen will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u96	Mr Minister, the FPS Finance unions are at the same time denouncing an obvious malaise. As a result of bad mood actions, you made promises a few months ago and, obviously, some remained unanswered, if not all. You had spoken of a larger recruitment, without any additional savings; you had committed yourself to respect, to the organization of objective mutations, to name but a few examples. Respecting and valuing public servants, who are more important when they play a role as important as collecting taxes, is essential to us. Your political formation, like Mr Vandeput, has so far shown us no great respect for public sector officials, especially those of the FPS Finances. When will you understand, Minister, that it is essential to act in the face of the malaise in your administration? What about the promises you made a few months ago? Could we not also hold hearings – we have never done so – of finance unions in this committee to hear fears and problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u97	The reorganization of the FPS Finance services as a whole had raised some concern among Finance staff, but this operation is now in the process of being completed and has proceeded well overall, taking into account the importance of this reform. There are still some difficulties, but the current situation in the Department of Finance can certainly not be described as "obvious malaise". In accordance with and respecting the trade union status, representative trade union organisations are very regularly invited to formal meetings to discuss all decisions relating to staff members. They shall also be kept informed, in informal meetings, of all proposed new developments in personnel management. In response to one of the examples cited, since May 2016, more than ten formal and informal meetings have already been held on the issue of change. A draft protocol on several subjects, including deployments and 1:1 replacement for control functions, was further discussed in the Finance Sector II Committee on 14 February, and its final version will be sent to the trade unions shortly. The desire to devote the time necessary to listen to the social partners, to analyse their arguments and to reach a consensus acceptable to each of the parties is therefore indisputable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u98	Mr Minister, there is obviously no problem, everything is fine. Trade union organisations explain in the press that there are problems, but obviously these problems do not exist. You will allow me to consider that there are difficulties from the moment when representative organisations refer to difficulties. I believe that, in order to be clear about this, it may be necessary to put on the agenda of our work the hearing of the representative organisations within the FPS Finance or, in any case, the organisations involved in the consultation within the FPS Finance. There is nothing to do, a persistent malaise within the FPS Finances can have an impact on the quality of work, on the service provided to users (so to citizens), but also, let us be pragmatic, on our tax revenues and on the fight against tax fraud in particular. I think we need to go into the matter. I understand, minister, that you are not directly involved in the consultation with the unions. Perhaps it would be useful if you were directly involved in meetings with organizations, not necessarily in detail, but in any case, you were listening to them. He seemed to me to understand that they were asking. I believe it is important that dialogue can exist with the minister, not just with senior officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u99	Minister, both yourself and the Chairman of the Prior Decision Service have confirmed the existence of unpublished rulings. It is clear that there are many more rulings than just the excess profit rotations, which are not published individually. Some 7% of the rulings delivered since the start of the Prior Decisions Service were not published individually. In the meantime, the new DVB president has stated that each ruling is published individually. That is, of course, excellent, but there is no clarity about the previous unpublished rulings. I think it would be a good idea for those too to be published individually. I take that view because we sometimes run into peculiar situations. I would like to refer to a discussion in the fiscal journal Succession Rights in 2013 of a ruling regarding a Dutch-Antillian foundation private fund. That meeting is from Rik Debluee's hand. However, that ruling was not published. It is strange that a ruling is not published, but is described extensively in the literature. I therefore urge that at least that ruling, but also the other rulings, be published individually. Minister, in the light of your positive comments in the past, I would have liked to ask you the following questions. Are you prepared to instruct the ruling committee to publish all unpublished rulings individually on Fisconet? How many rulings delivered by the Prior Decisions Service since its inception were not published? Now that it is practice to publish each ruling individually, do you agree that this practice should be regulated instead of being non-binding, as is the case now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u100	Mr Vanvelthoven, according to Article 24 of the Law of 24 December 2002, which established a system of prior decision, prior decisions must be published effectively. In accordance with Article 5 of the Royal Decree of 30 January 2003, that publication should take the form of an individual or collective summary. Consequently, the Prior Decisions Service has always complied with the legal requirements regarding the publication of the rulings. The DVB has never made it a secret that certain rulings were not published on an individual basis. The rulings were published either individually on Fisconet or collectively in the annual report, which is submitted to the Chamber each year and is also published on the website of the ruling service. Since 2015, all rulings have been published individually, which you rightly consider to be a positive development in the light of increased transparency. The ruling on a Dutch-Antillian foundation private fund concerns the prior decision No. 2012.049. It appears from internal documents that an anonymous version of that decision was prepared for publication on an individual basis. According to DVB, the non-publication is therefore a material error and was by no means intended not to publish that decision on an individual basis. The DVB has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that this decision is published.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that specific ruling will be published. I asked my question somewhat wider, namely whether you would also consider the same for other rulings of the past, which have not been published individually. Perhaps you could suggest the DVB to publish it after all. Since the current rulings are published individually, the question arises as to whether we would legally anchor them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u102	Mr Vanvelthoven, you are aware of the problems involved. If for certain companies very specific data are included in the ruling, there is also a confidentiality issue and one cannot simply throw that ruling out on the street, so to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u103	I fully understand that, and that should not be the intention. The new rulings are to be anonymised in such a way that possible business data and business secrets can no longer be traced. Perhaps we should consider whether we can do the same for the rulings of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u104	I am quite prepared to include that with the staff of the ruling service. I do not want to hide behind it, but you also realize that this will cause a lot of work if we want to make those rulings public.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u105	If you would like to look at this and discuss it with them, I would like to hear the result.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic606x.u106	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 16800 was postponed to the next meeting. The next meeting will take place on 8 March with questions to Ministers Wilmès and Jambon.
