ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u1	Madam President, at the outset, allow me to offer you my best wishes for 2017, as we are still in the phase where it is possible. I would also like to extend my best wishes to the Minister and to the staff of the House of Commons and Cabinet who have joined us. And hello to the student who comes to discover this Chamber and see the legislator from the inside. Minister, during the debate on your policy note, you referred to the Ombudsman of the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA), who deals with complaints from operators about the operation of this agency. I remember you mentioned the figure of 84 complaints. Minister, the policy note has not been able to complete the details, and that is why I am asking you a few questions. Do you confirm this number? Is this the number of complaints in 2016 or since January 1, 2016, since we were in December? Do you have a picture of the objects of these complaints? Does the Ombudsman intend to prepare an annual report and, if so, how soon it will be available and, if not, why not produce it? Does the Ombudsperson intend to draft recommendations on changes to the functioning of the AFSCA on the basis of the complaints received? Have you ever identified some of the operational problems of this federal agency and considered possible solutions? If so, could you tell us what problems and solutions are being considered to solve them? If not, when do you think you have this information to pass it on to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u2	Madam President, honourable Member, I would like to take this opportunity to express or reiterate my best wishes for you, your loved ones, your activities, your hopes and your enthusiasm. With regard to mediation within the AFSCA, and mediation in general, it seems to me that this mechanism is essential as an internal management approach to institutions such as the AFSCA. I will now answer you precisely and cross-sectionally, but I will also send you a document with figures on the complaints, their purpose and the channel through which they were recorded. The number of 84 complaints is indeed correct, Mr. de Lamotte, and concerns the year 2015. These are the latest data available. As soon as they are available for 2016, I will not fail to keep them at the disposal of the committee. This is the official number as transmitted to the complaints management network for the report "Indicators 2015" prepared by the AFSCA, which can be found on the fedweb site. So I'm sending you an excerpt from this file. As far as the subject matter of the complaints is concerned, the report indicates a very wide range of situations. Regardless of these, 20 of the 84 complaints were considered to have been substantiated, 11 of them related to the quality of products and services and 9 related to their processing. Secondly, on the basis of the analysis of complaints, of course when they are well founded, the mediator draws up several recommendations for the management of the AFSCA. On the basis of this 2015 report and given that the number of complaints based on the functioning of the AFSCA is relatively small (20 out of over 150 000 operators), I believe that the provision of AFSCA services is generally properly conducted and does not appear to be a major problem. Nevertheless, the points to be improved and the points mentioned in the Ombudsperson's annual report must be taken seriously, what is being done by the AFSCA and what I am also doing. There is also a need to ensure that operational adjustments are made as part of the continuous improvement of its service delivery. On the other hand, I know that between the formalisation of a complaint and, possibly, the feeling of certain difficulties by a partner or an interlocutor, there may still be a margin. A dissatisfaction or finding of difficulty by a partner does not necessarily constitute a complaint. In some cases, there may be a fear of making a complaint, even to an independent mediation service. I measure all this well, which is why I am very present with a number of operators, partners, contacts of the AFSCA to try to listen to their feelings. But I think I can say that things are being managed and moving in the right direction. I invite the members of the committee not to hesitate, especially after reading pages 169 to 171 of the AFSCA's "Complaint Management" report, to come back to me if you feel that further clarification is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will read carefully the document that you are going to forward to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u4	The committee will receive it and we will publish it on the committee's extranet site.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u5	Could we receive an alert when it becomes available? Minister, I will read this document carefully. I imagine that we will find the subject of the complaints, as you briefly stated in your answer. I would like to know, because you answered a little superficially on the subject, if the mediator makes an annual report. You invited me to read the AFSCA reports. Does the mediator prepare an annual report? Can we read it on the AFSCA website or elsewhere, for the information we need? I imagine that, in addition to the complaints, advertising and processing that have been made, the AFSCA has responded to these comments. If some of them are well-founded, I guess there was a reaction. It was the additional information, if you'd like to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u6	With your permission, Madam Chair: Yes, it is the mediator's report that is available, as set out in the ethical and operational rules of the mediation service. The Ombudsperson's report is available on the AFSCA website. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u7	Ms. Cassart-Mailleux announced that she would be a little late. Questions No 15015 by Mrs Van Hoof, No 15306 by Mr Friart, No 15424 by Mrs Fonck and No 15595 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions. We know that Mrs Dierick is absent and we have no news of Mrs Gantois and Mrs Lanjri. Minister, I suggest you ask my question. And then we will continue with the other questions depending on the people present at the end of our exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u8	Minister, my question is an extension of the exchange that we had, without prior preparation, in plenary on December 20, 2016. On Wednesday 21 December 2016, the European Commission presented its new report on the criteria for identifying endocrine disruptors to experts from the Member States. According to what I have read, the Commission has no guarantee that it will obtain a sufficient majority in favour of its proposals, so the Commission did not call for a vote at its meeting on 21 December 2016. It proposed to entrust the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) with working on guidelines for the implementation of these famous criteria. Results are expected by the end of May 2017. An ad hoc consultation group will be established to support the drafting of these criteria. The orientations are limited to four pathways of endocrine mode of action, only for vertebrates. Non-vertebrates will therefore not be affected by the analyses to be carried out. You said in plenary that Belgium had major objections to the "derogations" part of the European Commission's proposals. These are the exemptions for pesticides acting on the hormonal system of harmful plants and insects and the derogations for marketing authorisation with subsequent risk assessment rather than prior assessment. You also explained that in the "criteria" part of the European Commission's work, all the comments and criticisms made by Belgian experts had been taken into account and that, therefore, Belgian experts could accept the proposals, and that it would be important to check the texts to ensure that they were sufficiently concerned with the health effects, risks and exposures themselves and, above all, at low rates. On that occasion, you also informed us that you could provide us with more specific information about expert analysis at a later stage. Minister, can you give us more specific information about the European Commission's report? Can you tell us about Belgium's assessment of the criteria for the identification and classification of endocrine disruptors? What do you think from the point of view of the Belgian experts about the various elements of the European Commission's report? What is the real and precise nature of the work requested by the Commission from ECHA and EFSA? What are the positions of the different States? Ségolène Royal, like many scientists, calls for a classification of endocrine disruptors into three categories, proven, suspected, suspected, as is already the case for carcinogens. What is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u9	Madam President, as a follow-up to the discussion we had during the night of the budget debate, I am very happy to come back to this extremely important issue. First of all, I would like to point out how much we pay attention to the precautionary principle and to the principle of respect for health in the context of the attitude defined by Belgium in this dossier. Secondly, I would like to point out that we are leading this matter in consultation with my colleagues, the Ministers De Block, responsible for public health, and Marghem, responsible for the environment. As you pointed out, the European Commission has amended its regulatory proposals with regard to endocrine disruptors. It has now split its proposal into two parts. One text will deal with the criteria and another part will deal with the derogations. As a result, there should be two delegated acts for biocides and two delegated acts for plant protection products. In the latest version of the Commission, it appears that at the level of the "criteria" part, the European Commission has followed almost all the Belgian comments; you know that we have fought in this regard. For Belgium, the level of proof required for a classification was too high. Much too much evidence was required to be able to consider, to put it simply, that a product is dangerous or likely to be dangerous. It was important for us to make decisions on the basis of animal data, and not to have to wait for evidence in man, nor to have to prove causal links and relevance to him. In addition, a requirement for evidence rather than information is now required to demonstrate that a non-human adverse effect would escape the definition of human endocrine disruptor. The Commission has therefore amended its text. Our concern in this regard has been taken into account. We are satisfied with that. In addition, a new provision of the revised proposal created an exemption for substances that act as pests growth regulators through the endocrine system. This exemption included pesticides, which prevent some insects from breeding or growing, although these substances may also have endocrine effects on other non-target species, which is of great concern. We therefore proposed that this exemption be strictly limited to species belonging to the same branch lines, in biological terms, in order not to exempt products that would then have effects on a number of other non-target organisms. The Commission has also amended the text to this effect. Here too, we can consider that our concern has been taken into account. As regards the form of derogations, Belgium considers that the principles of derogation for substances identified as disruptors in the PPP Regulation are essential elements of the Regulation. This part of the derogations is crucial. We therefore consider that the Commission is exceeding its mandate by amending the procedure, in particular in terms of comitology. Belgium has therefore asked it to restrict itself in its proposals to the criteria alone. In other words, we consider that the Commission is not empowered to modify the formal mechanisms with regard to the management of derogations. On the substance, Belgium believes that endocrine disruptors cannot be treated like any other substance, given the excessive number of risks. It cannot be ruled out that a single quantitative threshold in terms of toxicity cannot be defined. In other words, it may be considered that several quantitative thresholds should be defined for the analysis of the effects of a substance. For this reason, Belgium has requested the Commission to automatically exclude from the approval criteria substances whose toxicity threshold cannot be defined in a unambiguous manner. These products, which are called "substances demonstrating dose effects with a non-monoton response". This is the translation of the precautionary principle in favour of which we plead. Indeed, we propose that substances whose threshold of toxicity cannot be defined in a single way should be excluded. In addition, the Commission's proposal sets out the criteria in broad terms. It's one thing. However, with regard to a very technical issue, precise guidance is needed. This joint drafting work is currently being carried out by EFSA and ECHA. The drafting of these documents will also be closely monitored by our administrations. As you pointed out, at the last meetings of the experts from the Member States on biocides and plant protection products, respectively, the Commission, arguing that there was no agreement on the texts, did not ask for a vote, except for intermediate or partial expressions. If I am not mistaken, in the written text of your oral question, you also referred to the French proposal. At this stage, it was not accepted by the European Commission in the discussions on this subject, given the Commission's knowledge of the position of the different Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u10	Minister, thank you for the clarification you have just made. Is the deadline for the end of May correct? [[Oui]] It is also the organisation of our work in committee on endocrine disruptors, since it may be worth waiting for this information before continuing the work on the texts submitted. I appreciate the fact that Belgium has opposed proposals contrary to the precautionary principle and the necessary caution. We will follow developments carefully. It is important not only to define sufficient criteria, but also to define clearly how to protect oneself when there is any suspicion, given the terrible effect of these products.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u11	Ms Dierick and Ms Gantois turn questions 15508 and 15511 into written questions. Mrs. Cassart hasn't arrived yet. Either she's coming, or we'll turn her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u12	Minister, during the discussion of your policy paper, you indicated your intention to continue to roll out the MediPrima project. Before you roll out that project and extend it to primary health care, whatever you intend, I would like to give you a number of bottlenecks for hospitals and OCMWFs. They were sent to me through civil society. Hospitals indicate that the system is often not workable. In the system, it is often unclear which decision was taken by the OMCW. Also, the decision is sometimes not workable because only one day's admission is granted. Moreover, hospitalisation costs are sometimes distinguished from outpatient costs. OMCWs also often hold doctors to account, which is a violation of their professional secrecy for doctors. I have asked you questions about this in the past. The caution of OCMWs can of course be explained in part by the fact that they have to bear the costs of care themselves if the Social Integration PPS finds in a check that social research is not adequate. The OCMW's also experience different problems with MediPrima. For example, they state that there can be no non-binding notification to the PPS Social Integration, which obliges them to take a decision in the short term, to which they are bound. They indicate that the suspensions from the PPS Social Integration cause a major nuisance, which requires them to review their decision each time. The separate care categories, e.g. outpatient care for hospitalization, in MediPrima ensure that OMCWs can take separate decisions on care categories and have to express their views on them. In this way, OCMWs express their opinion on the need for care, which is actually a doctor's responsibility. We have also agreed in the government agreement that it is up to a doctor to judge the urgent need for concern. So the system is experienced as quite complex. If, in a second phase, the system were extended to primary care, including doctors and general practitioners, it would become even more complex, as not all general practitioners use the electronic system eFact. My questions are as follows. These problems may have already been reported to you or your administration. What are you going to do about it or what have you done about it? When are you planning a thorough evaluation of the first phase with all the actors involved? Before the extension of MediPrima to the general practitioners in January, you indicated that an impact analysis was being carried out. Working groups were set up to prepare a need analysis. What are the results of the impact analysis? What came up? Has the need analysis been completed? If so, what does this need analysis contain? What are the next steps in this context? As I said earlier, the coalition agreement states that the notion of urgent nature must be clarified in consultation with the medical experts, without leading to a list of conditions that may or may not be considered to be borne by the federal state, i.e. the RIZIV. What is the state of play in defining the concept of "urgent character', as stated in the coalition agreement? Which medical experts did you consult with? What are the results? When does it come to an amendment of the definition? After all, I believe that this could solve a lot of problems in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u13	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, the evaluation of the MediPrima project is carried out on a continuous basis through the monitoring committee of the project, in which all the partners involved are represented. This committee meets every month and validates the desired changes to the project, as well as the necessary IT developments. In the meantime, therefore, there has been a lot of consultation and the elements you have mentioned are not strange to me. I, along with my administration, am fully engaged in the elaboration of a number of improvements. A special newsletter was also produced in this context in November. Among other things, the free comment fields, which OCMWs now use to mention all kinds of restrictions, will disappear and will be replaced by structured conditions. It will thus be more difficult for the OCMWFs to strictly limit their coverage over time. These adjustments will be carried out together with the introduction of the second phase for pilots of the development of and for general practitioners. A good practice document has already been circulated on this subject. Another adaptation planned in the next release is to link the two shutters, hospitalization and outpatient care, in the future. The OMCW will thus be obliged to make an outpatient concern hatch when opening a right in the hospitalization hatch, both of which must have at least the same duration and the same care providers must authorise. At the request of the sector, the template of the identification sheet was also adapted to its needs and the data flow provided that, when a person changes the national register or BIS number, the new number can be communicated to hospitals, as was already the case with the OCMW debt securities. As regards the state of progress regarding the extension to general practitioners, the impact analysis and the need analysis were completed together with the partners concerned. The technical documentation was delivered to the pilots so that they could start the necessary IT developments early this year. At the same time, all other software houses were also informed. The intention is to start production in June 2017 with the pilots to consult the electronic decisions and obtain the tarification of their performance and to start electronic billing for them in July 2017. For the other general practitioners and their software houses, a progressive roll-out will be provided, taking into account the timing of the third-party payment rules. Fourthly, I would like to clarify the concept of urgent medical assistance, which is also an important issue. I would like, among other things, to have a strengthened check on the tests of urgent medical assistance carried out by the medical counsellors of the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance. I intend to strengthen the monitoring of the certificates of urgent medical assistance in two areas. On the one hand, I wish to extend the control a priori so that it can be verified for each dossier that the required certificate is present and in conformity. In the absence of the required certificate, no payment will be made. On the other hand, I would like to make the monitoring of the substance more efficient a posteriori, in the sense that the medical advisers always have the necessary medical reports to carry out the substantive checks. A negative check will also result in recovery of the undue compensation. In order to carry out the checks, consultations are held on a regular basis between my administration, the PPS Social Integration and the HZIV to develop the corresponding regulatory framework. As soon as the drafts for the regulatory framework are ready, I will contact my colleague responsible for Health, Mrs De Block, to discuss the framework. I am convinced that the good and bad care practices identified in the HZIV checks, as well as the case law that will be developed from them, will provide a good basis for discussing, together with other medical experts, the uncertainties regarding the concept of urgent medical assistance and thus clarifying its definition. I will also discuss this with my colleague, Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u14	Thank you, Minister. I have a few elements of reply. You said that there is a continuous consultation forum for evaluation and that a number of improvements have been made. If the sector still wants to identify problems, where should this happen? Apparently, a number of problems aren't going to be solved after all. You also spoke about a newsletter and a document with good practice. Is it possible to deliver it to me? If I understand correctly, the second phase, i.e. the extension to the general practitioners, will be launched in June 2017. May I assume it's about pilot projects? Did you mean pilot projects or pilot communities? I assume that we will not do this immediately with all the general practitioners, but will work with a number of pilot projects. Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u15	They're the pilots of the project. It is not a pilot project, it is the pilots of the project with IT developments among others. The intention is to start in July 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u16	This year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u17	This year, with the general practitioners in a broad context. That's working with the pilots of the project, not with a pilot project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u18	You want to start with all the general practitioners at the same time? Wouldn't it be helpful to start with some doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u19	Step by step, first with a number of doctors and then step by step with a broader framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u20	So it will be progressive but structural?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u21	Ja, structural progress. Secondly, I agree to send a letter to the committee. What was your third question again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u22	I was talking about the document and the newsletter. Mr Minister, since there are problems now, I would really like to urge you to start this introduction with a limited number of general practitioners, projectally, and then to evaluate it and then extend it to the other general practitioners. If not, this is likely to fail, and I believe that no one will benefit from it, not you, not the clients, not the OCMWFs. I therefore think that a phased introduction would be better, with an evaluation and the identification of points for improvement. I hope you will take this comment with you. Finally, I would like to say that we have agreed in the coalition agreement to define the notion of "urgent character'. I understand that you want to work on the basis of what comes out of the checks and the justice system. I think that is very useful and sensible, but I also hope that this will be done in a reasonable time. Now people with the same disease in one municipality can be helped, I give the example of Ghent, with a refund by the PPS Social Integration, while in another municipality they are much stricter. That can't be the intention. It is also not intended that the OCMWFs themselves should play doctors and decide who or not to meet the definition of "urgent medical assistance'. It is not up to the OCMW's to decide this. This is a task for the doctors and, of course, a check may be carried out by inspection doctors. You haven't given me any timing yet. Do you have any idea of the timing? When will a design definition be ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u23	I am not going to express a timing because the government agreement also provides that we cannot define a list of diseases or pathologies or a list of medical situations. The definition of urgency is an extremely difficult exercise. That is why I want to build on the experience of the oversight bodies and the various institutions I have mentioned. In this regard, I would like to move forward because I see not only differences in appreciation and an upward trend in the budget. I therefore wish to be able to manage both elements, but I know that this issue is extremely difficult, like others; it has been very much discussed within the framework of the government agreement. If I really want to be able to define, in consultation with doctors, control bodies, the Social Integration PPS and the CPAS, this issue really needs to be properly addressed. Of course, I've heard your question, but I won't give you any timing. The timing is as early as possible. If there are specific problems, they can be sent to the PPS Social Integration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u24	I will then question you regularly in order to know the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u25	Madam President, Minister, I spoke a few months ago on the satisfaction survey put in place by the AFSCA. In particular, I asked you whether the results of previous surveys had led to major changes. In this regard, you indicated to me that, following the investigation, all staff members were invited to conduct an analysis of the causes and results and to make proposals for action. On the basis of the latter, the AFSCA Management Committee selected five areas of action: administrative simplification, internal communication, a pleasant workplace, career opportunities and consideration of people beyond the figures. These areas of action have been integrated into the Agency's operational objectives. Finally, in my previous question on the subject, you told me that these actions are currently being carried out. I would like to take stock with you on this matter. Minister, can you provide an update on this matter? Have some actions already been carried out? If so, which ones? In concrete terms, how does this happen on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u26	Madam Member, indeed, the AFSCA Steering Committee has selected five areas of action that have been integrated into the Agency's operational objectives. The first area concerns internal administrative simplification. In 2016, several actions were carried out. A note has been prepared on the application, notification and processing of waivers of service, missions of service and absences to be compensated. This note clearly sets out what is to be requested for both the duration and the costs. The training aspect is also integrated. This note clarifies and cancels all previous notes on the subject. In addition, the processing of requests for absence has been simplified through computer applications, reducing paper emissions and highlighting approvals made. In addition, all career interruption requests requiring completion of a ONEM form are now online. This has the effect of simplifying and speeding up the processing of employees. Throughout the coming months, intensive work will be carried out to prepare for the transition to PersoPoint, which is in line with the government's objectives for optimisation and simplification of the wage process. In 2017, the AFSCA will continue its efforts on administrative simplification. A review of several procedures is under way at the Director General level. Secondly, the next area concerns improving internal communication. Employees would like to be better informed, and more quickly, about staff information. Therefore, since 31 March 2016, the P&O service updates on an intranet basis a'start & move' section that includes staff news (arrivals, service changes, new designations, promotions, etc.).). The IT service also implemented a more efficient search engine at the end of March 2016. It is also planned in 2017 to completely review the structure through which information is presented on the Intranet, primarily for personnel-related matters. Third. The third objective is to ensure that each staff member has as pleasant and suitable a place of work as possible. In order to best meet the needs of officers, various interviews are planned with a view to defining an adequate layout of the workspaces, which takes into account the requirements of each of the functions performed, combining logistic solutions as well as IT tools (information, modern technology, etc.).). For example, provide for'silence' spaces, a refectory, more flexibility in the organisation of work, as well as tools to facilitate collaboration. Small pilot projects have emerged such as the development of a convivial space whose chromatic version has been adapted, the equipment of modern furniture, the purchase of seat balloons and other elements such as the implementation of integration days. The fourth point concerns career opportunities, and in particular the procedures for responding to staff members, who wish to be even more transparent. As a result, a new procedure for promotion is being finalized. Finally, the fifth area concerns the interpretation and follow-up to be given to the figures collected. Staff members are asking for more attention to quality and less to quantitative elements. It is mainly the employees of the territorial control units who ask for less attention to be paid to the encrypted elements. Benefit figures and indicators are not an instrument for assessing individual benefits and are not a goal in itself. It is therefore essential to be able, in dialogue with the staff members, to explain why this numerical monitoring is conducted, and how the management and exploitation of the figures are carried out. Training in this area has been added to the 2016-2017 leadership training course, organized by management.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u27	Minister, thank you for the follow-up and for the full answer you have given me. The five points selected are important points. A lot has already been done. We're going in the right direction. I will continue to follow this file and thank you for the information that I have received today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u28	Madam President, Minister, a few months ago I asked you about the safeguard clause triggered by France on cherries treated with dimethoate. France had decided to suspend until the end of 2016 the importation of dimethoate-treated cherries, an insecticide that protects the fruit against a kind of fly, the suzukii drosophile. However, in Belgium, our cherries producers use this product, whose conditions of use are much stricter at home than in France, with a minimum period of 28 days between the last spray and the harvest, whereas it is 14 days in France. In short, apples and pears were compared. Mr Minister, have the Belgian cherries producers suffered from this safeguard clause? What is the current situation? Have maximum residue limits of dimethoate been re-evaluated at European level? Is the authorization to use dimethoate still suspended in France? If so, how long? What alternatives are available to our cherries producers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u29	Madam Member, the suspension of the authorisation of the treatment of cherries by dimethoate in the spring of 2016 prevented the suspension of exports to France, which is a good thing in terms of public health but also for Belgian producers, many of whom are exporting to this country. As a reminder, this suspension decision was taken in consultation with the sector. Following this suspension and on the basis of the information transmitted to my administration by the Regions, the producers had to use another product in 2016. This insecticide was used at an earlier stage to control the cherry fly and during an additional treatment to control the drosophile. There are two species of insect pests that are important to cherries: cherry fly and drosophile. The damage to these two insects causes fruit to be downgraded. Currently, it appears that a truly effective product is missing to protect late-maturity cherries from the attacks of the Drosophiles. Currently available insecticides are less effective than dimethoate and do not guarantee lower pest pressure for the following year. From a regulatory point of view, the situation is as follows: at the end of March 2016, the French authorities made a notification requesting, on the one hand, a ban on the use of dimethoate in Europe and, on the other hand, a ban on the placing on the market of cherries from countries where dimethoate was allowed on cherry trees. In view of the absence of a decision by the European Commission on this matter, on 5 May 2016 the Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural Use suspended the use of dimethoate in Belgium in order, as I indicated, not to compromise the access of cherries produced in Belgium to the French market. This suspension was not limited in time. As regards the maximum residue limits (MRLs) for dimethoate, these are still under review and revision at European level. The maximum residue limit in cherries had been reduced to 0.2 mg/kg pending the MRL review process. It is therefore still at this stage of 0.2 mg/kg. If new elements emerge during the assessment of dimethoate at European level or during the revision of the maximum permitted residue limits, the situation may of course be reviewed and these MRLs may be lowered. As far as alternatives are concerned, unfortunately, at this stage there do not seem to be any other biological solution, in any case equally effective. Insect traps and insectproof nets are underperforming and, it must be said, sometimes very expensive. In the case of other conventional plant protection products, two active alternative substances are authorised in Belgium to control drosophile. But this too small number of products and the maximum degree of application do not allow the efficient production of orchards, which bring together varieties of trees of different precocity – which means that their flowering dates vary greatly. I will conclude by insisting, of course, on the public health imperative and the precautionary principle that must legitimately apply in this area, but also on the need for effective and safe products and/or alternative methods of pest control for our crops or our crops in general, so that they can continue. One of my priorities is the development of biopesticides – natural material derivatives, to summarize – and low-risk phytophamarceutic products. This is a case that I am very close to. The lower case fees for this type of product and a quick and adapted follow-up by my administration position our country as a European leader in the field of biopesticides and low-risk phytophamarceutic products. I also call on all the active forces in terms of agronomic research, which is a regional competence, to continue to develop innovative means of struggle and, of course, respectful of public health and the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u30	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer, which allowed me to learn a few new terms, I am not a specialist in these matters. What I am holding back is your hard work, the way in which you have taken this case with arms-on-body, carried out the consultation with the sector in order to find solutions to which everyone adheres. It's proof of a job well done. It is in this sense that we need to work, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u31	Minister, allow me a supplementary question. Is this a new species of Drosophilus? Is this the tiny insect that attacks the red fruits, which only appeared in our home a year or two ago? Or is it an "old" Drosophilus?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u32	I will not dare to assert here the duration of the presence of these Drosophiles in us. Based on my knowledge of the file, I do not feel that this is something new, but I will make sure that I can provide you with a 100% certified answer, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u33	This new insect that attacks the red fruits is a real disaster. It is so small that it crosses the protective nets and once it is in the fruit, nothing can be done. That said, I don't know what this new invasive species is called.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u34	So maybe it's a new peril.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-11-54-commissie-ic558x.u35	In my area, we have a lot of strawberry producers. They are now obliged to put two layers of very, very fine nets, to change clothes in the airlock constituted by these nets to be sure that there is not one of these insects that passes through. There is absolutely no product to combat them. They are species that come from the countries of the South and have returned home with global warming to invade our red fruit production. We can come back to the subject on another occasion.
