ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u1	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, good morning and, as far as I am concerned, welcome on a subject which has been on this committee for months. You're taking this file back, like the others. But it is particularly sensitive because we have had many unsuccessful exchanges with Mrs Sleurs on this issue, which is now of much more interest to Justice than to the political world. You've already reacted as a lawyer by saying that periodicity is not nice. We haven't taken any artwork from your office, I hope. This has already happened. You have already been able to unblock a drag: the imposed designation – we are in a rule of law, which some regret, but neither you nor I – of the members of the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat. It is never just the application of what is planned and the conventions that have been signed – pacta sunt servanda, as your party president often says. This is all the more positive given that the State was first sentenced by the Brussels Court of First Instance to make this designation. We were at 5,000 euros a day, which is not nothing! I hope that this designation is not just a lawyer's reflex – which remains, in itself, interesting – but that other elements motivate you. Because we are a few to plead for the return of dialogue. As this designation step has been completed, it is an opportunity to work in better conditions to find solutions, particularly with the private partner of the International Polar Foundation. We are here in a particular register which is the famous public-private partnership. There is a separate management service; the state does not intervene directly. The partner still owns a thousandth of the property. We're in a form of co-ownership. It is therefore an important step that has been taken, but we must go further. Ms.Sleurs had also refused to carry out an adversarial inventory of the material present at the base – this is one of those disputes with judicial officers who deployed on the spot – despite the fact that the Court of Appeal had imposed this contradictory inventory. This was one of the conditions for a so-called "peaceful" settlement of the dispute. What is your position on this subject? Beyond and on the basis of the law finally restored – which I am delighted to say again, because it was not obvious and I am glad that this took place – do you intend to become personally involved in order to reconnect the sons of a genuine dialogue between the stakeholders? I remind them: the state, the administration that is itself evolving – it is in the question that will follow on the future of BELSPO – and the partner that has been recognised by the texts that have been signed, namely the Polar Foundation, with respect for each other, dialogue that has sorely missed for three years. Finally, the Secretary of State, the Government Agreement states that the Polar Secretariat will adopt the structure of an international LBAS, which is called an LBAS, in which the States Parties maintain a majority interest in management. Can you tell us more about this, pending your general policy note, which I suppose we will be debating in some time, Mr President?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u2	April 18 in the morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u3	Beautiful! While waiting for this note, you understand my impatience. I am already trying to address the evolution of the future of this polar station, hoping for a calm discussion on a dossier polluted by legal connotations and conflicts of people, we must not hide it. In conclusion, Madam Secretary of State, this is an exceptional case. There's only one zero-emission polar station in Antarctica. It is the result of our country's combined efforts. Unfortunately, in recent years, it has become a bad soap opera, with scientists prevented from going to work on the spot, while – I emphasise it and I take my hat a little green – this is one of the issues with regard to studies on global warming. The Princess Elisabeth polar base is a high place for scientific research on these developments. I hope that you will, beyond your first decision, continue in the direction of dialogue and restore a slightly more serene future for this station than the whole world wants us to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, I welcome you since this is the first time we have met in this committee. We share the same desire to work on the subject of scientific research and I hope that we will achieve positive results for it. Princess Elisabeth Polar Station and Antarctic research are in danger. The 2016-2017 BELARE mission has been cancelled and there is a great risk that this failure will happen again in 2017-2018, which would endanger the future of the polar station. The polar station is entangled in a bag of knots, woven of disputes initiated by a private partner who defends his interests and errors of judgment on the part of your predecessor, Mrs. Sleurs. I also welcome your decision to appoint the members of the Polar Secretariat's Board of Directors, which we had called for on several occasions at that time. The State must rise above conflicts to resolve them and not feed them by blocking situations. Antarctic research has suffered enough and the only way to unlock the situation is to negotiate a new Memorandum of Understanding with the International Polar Foundation (IPF). There are only a few months left before the next polar season. The 2017-2018 season must be ready by the end of June. Given the time it takes to reach agreement on a revision of the structure of the Polar Secretariat, to set it up and to make it operational, negotiations with the Polar Foundation must begin as soon as possible, otherwise it will fail, as the previous one was the victim, should there be a cancellation. Worse still, the statutes of the revised structure could be drawn up in a rush and, in a few years, we will face the same governance problems as today. In addition, the next Antarctic Treaty meeting will take place in April / May. The management of the polar station will be the subject of many questions from partner countries. Ideally, a solution should be found by then to avoid ridicule. An intermediate solution, in addition to a long-term solution, should be considered. I wanted to be constructive and proposed to appoint a mediator to facilitate the negotiation of a new partnership between the IPF and the government, as well as to ensure the pace of these negotiations. This would be beneficial for you and for the IPF since and the State and IPF claim the bad will of the other party. A neutral and co-opted mediator would allow for more objectivity. Madam Secretary of State, will you negotiate a new Memorandum of Understanding with the Polar Foundation? How long do you have to wait to reach this agreement? Will you allow these negotiations to take place on the board of the Polar Secretariat? Will you appoint a mediator to facilitate the negotiation of this new partnership? Can the Polar Secretariat organize the 2017-2018 BELARE mission? Is this mission assured? Should an agreement with the IPF be reached beforehand? When will the Strategic Council allocate the funds available under the 2016 budget, i.e. €3 million? When are you going to close the Polar Secretariat accounts? Will you present the detailed budget of the Polar Secretariat to Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. In the case of the Polar Station Princess Elisabeth, in addition to the publication of the new composition of the Strategic Council, now chaired by a member of my cabinet, I have given priority to the preparatory work for a new collaboration with the IPF. It is the interest of scientific research that prevails here. I want to get on the road to the future and look for collaborations that will help to avoid the problems that have been encountered in the past. Precisely as far as this future is concerned, I hope you will understand that we need time for the ongoing negotiation with the IPF. I wish to take advantage of any opportunity to reach a lasting solution far from the legal battlefield. I repeat that I will come to committee as soon as I have an agreement with all those involved. I would like to stress once again that I think it is important to leave the legal jousting behind us. I have already said in plenary that it has cost enough court fees. In the context of scientific research, I also believe that it is important that we continue to do so and that we conclude an agreement where everyone feels good. I'm working on that. I haven't been Secretary of State for long. As soon as I have reached an agreement, I will refer it to the committee. Continuing to address the inventory issue is also in line with this perspective. On the other hand, I will wait for the Strategic Council to be convened shortly and I assume that the establishment of a new BELARE campaign will be included in the agenda. Indeed, it is up to the Polar Secretariat to organise the next BELARE campaign 2017-2018 and its Strategic Council to vote for the allocation of funds available. About the payments and accounts of the Pool Secretariat, I can give you the following. The latter has already received 65% of the amount of the appropriation as voted in Parliament, but it could benefit, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 20 May 2009, from the balance of the allocation after the Strategic Board of Implementing Accounts has adopted its decision 2017. This item will be discussed at the next Council meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u6	I thank the Secretary of State, because the tone used is a little different. Each one's personality. This seems to me more likely to conform to our desire to regain the sense of dialogue and negotiation. From this point of view, I understand caution and am not upset that I have no answer. I prefer that to a negative answer. I can only urge the Secretary of State to continue in this direction. I believe that it is only through this dialogue and through the capacity within the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat, where the interlocutors are located, that we will achieve this. I don't know if they should be suggested to withdraw to Val Duchesse or find another place on the spot. With a little humour, I can only note that this would allow members to come out only with an agreement. Or we'll let you spend a year there. I'm not going to table a motion, Mr. Chairman. I can reassure the N-VA member who's waiting. I will therefore, Madam Secretary of State, share your ambition to reach an agreement, but of course also to monitor, day after day, the progress of this dialogue finally found.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u7	We note that you do not table a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u8	Mr President, the exception confirms the rule! Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Your comments reveal a genuine desire for change in tone and in contact with your interlocutors. I heard you need a little time. I'll leave some for you, but I'll keep an eye on you in this regard. It is also my role as a parliamentarian. You didn't answer me about the mediator, but I guess you'll do that. I'll ask you again about that. For the three million, you say you paid two thirds. I'd like you to give us the schedule for the balance. We would also be interested in the accounts of the Polar Secretariat. I am prepared to read it, either through an answer to a written question or by specific mail. In the meantime, continue your work and come back to us quickly with an agreement and contributing to as constructive a dialogue as possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u9	I thank both colleagues. With regard to the organisation of work, I have taken note, Madam Secretary of State, of your wish to continue the dialogue with our committee, when you have reached a more precise agreement on the matter here. I find it interesting to change the tone from the previous period. With regard to your guidance note, which we will discuss on the morning of April 18, you told us in an informal discussion that you wanted to send it to us quickly. If possible, could you do it a week before, during the Easter period? When you get this type of note 24 or 48 hours before, it's very frustrating for MPs. You must agree, since you have also sometimes complained about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u11	So you have the opportunity to set an example. A week in advance, that would be very correct! Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u12	Mr President, the note will be delivered to the committee members at least a week in advance so that everyone can have a good look at it. It may have taken a little time. Maybe it could've been a little early, but I should've worked my way in. Anyone who wants to accentuate needs time to talk to everyone involved. That's why it took a while. Besides, the Easter holidays are coming up. However, the committee will certainly get the memo in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u13	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I interviewed your predecessor over two years ago on this issue. It's about the language states that govern the Federal Scientific Institutions. We have been following this issue for decades and, unfortunately, we are still finding that the Flemings in these institutions are seriously lacking in terms of the distribution of jobs. As you know, the language frameworks that exist in the meantime are, in fact, already institutionalized discrimination against the Flemings. It is based on the fifty-fifty principle, while the Flemings account for 60% of the population. However, the language frameworks do exist, and that is not your responsibility. However, it is your responsibility that the language frameworks are respected. We note that not even half of the jobs in the Federal Scientific Institutions are allocated to Flemings. I had hoped that your predecessor would change that, but, unfortunately, after studying the figures, it turned out to be vain hope. In her reply to my interplay two years ago, your predecessor said that for all the Federal Scientific Institutions, 48.1% of the relations were filled out by Flemings and 51.9 percent by French speakers. If I look at the data from the federal web site pdata and recreate the calculation for all these federal institutions on the basis of the latest available figures until 30 June 2016, I come up with a ratio of 48 % Dutch speakers compared to 52 % French speakers. So there is no improvement at all. No progress has been made in a year and a half. On the contrary, there is even a slight deterioration. As regards the individual institutions, from a comparison of the most recent figures with the figures from two years earlier, i.e. from mid-2014 to mid-2016, there is progress in six institutions, while unfortunately, in eight institutions, there is a further decline in the number of Fleming jobs. It also shows that eleven of the fourteen Federal Scientific Institutions are currently failing to achieve the proportions laid down by the language frameworks for the Flemings. This is the case in two institutions. One institution does not even have language frameworks and there too the number of jobs for the Flemings is below 50%. It is, of course, particularly unfortunate that there is a further decline to be noted. The Observatory is the worst institution in this respect, where only 41.1 % Flemings are employed, a decline of 1.3 % in two years. In the Royal Belgian Institute for Space Aeronomy, 41.3 % Flame is also a decline of 1.8 % compared to two years earlier. Same for the National Archives, where 46.8 % Flemings are still employed, also a decline compared to two years before. Madam Secretary of State, I can only conclude that your predecessor has not pursued a policy to correct that situation to the detriment of the Flemings, otherwise there would be no further deterioration. On the contrary, the number of jobs for the Flemings would have improved. I would ask you, of course, to comply with these legal language frameworks and to change your predecessor's policy by effectively doing something about them. Madam Secretary of State, do you have any ambition in that regard to do better than your predecessor? I do not think it is particularly difficult to have more ambition in this area than Mrs Sleurs. What is your ambition in relation to these language states? Secondly, are you prepared to break the French-speaking resistance to respect for language frameworks? What will you do about it? Within what time limit should at least the existing language frameworks be respected for you? What are the prospects and how long are you working towards them? Finally, in the hope that you have more ambition than simply applying the existing language frameworks, I would also ask you whether you are considering reviewing the language frameworks yourself. Today, with a 50/50 distribution, they are discriminatory against the Flemings. Can we expect anything from you in that regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Pas, it is self-evident that I attach importance to compliance with legislation, including language legislation. For this reason, I will urge the Federal Scientific Institutions to take maximum account of the binding language frameworks in their personnel policies. I have now had the opportunity to visit a number of institutions. I haven't been able to visit them all yet, but the use of terms such as sabotage and resistance is not correct. There is indeed the will to comply with language legislation. The information I have been given is that the figures are what they are, because the causes are different. I'll name two. That is, firstly, the supply on the labour market. This is mainly about staff at the lower levels. Secondly, the need for highly specialised profiles, especially for the scientific framework. I will work to comply correctly with language legislation. However, it is difficult at the moment to establish a specific objective on a time frame or by a certain date. It wouldn't be wise to do that. The establishment of language frameworks is based on Article 43 (3) of the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters. It states that the language frameworks must be based on the essential importance that the Dutch and French language areas represent respectively for each department. It also provides that the planned distribution of relations between the different language frameworks is subject in advance to the opinion of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. The methodology for drawing up language frameworks that you are questioning and which you claim to be poor is a methodology validated by the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. In this committee there are only members proposed by the Länder. It is therefore not within my competence to change these regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u15	I thank the Secretary of State for her answer. Allow me to doubt that good will to do something about it. After all, I can only say that it has been limping for more than ten years and that it is only deteriorating. If there is a will to really do something about it, it is very strange that the figures prove the opposite. It is a pity that you do not dare to stick to a date when these language frameworks must be respected. It concerns the application of existing legislation. It's also a pity you don't have more ambition. I am concerned with the principle of language relations. That 50/50 distribution is simply detrimental to the Flemings. This applies to most scientific institutions. You could certainly insist on a fair 60/40 ratio. I am a little disappointed that there is no more ambition in this area. I am convinced of your good will. I shall certainly follow this up in the hope that the next time I question you about this, the figures will finally go in the opposite direction. Mr President, in order to help the Secretary of State in her good will to do something about this, I have a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u16	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, and Science Policy, responsible for Large Cities, added to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, - having regard to the language law in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966 (SWT), - whereas the SWT provides that the language frameworks for the division of relations between the language groups in the central administration must be "with due regard, on all the steps of the hierarchy, to the essential importance of representing the Dutch and French linguistic areas respectively for each service"; - whereas the Flemings account for about 60% of the population of that country; - having regard to the language frameworks of the various Federal Scientific Institutions; - whereas these language frameworks often do not reflect "the essential importance that the Dutch and French language regions constitute and are severely at the disadvantage of the Flemings"; - whereas on the date of 30 June 2016, according to the Federal Website pdata 52% of the relations in the Federal Scientific Institutions are occupied by French speakers and only 48% by Flemings; - whereas this means that the real language relations in the Federal Scientific Institutions are still well below the language relations already unfavourable to the Flemings as they were established in language frameworks; - whereas these distortions have existed for decades and there is hardly any improvement to be seen; - having regard to the fact that no progress has been made in the Federal Scientific Institutions in their globalisation over the last two years to correct these distortions; - having regard to the fact that, in the last two years in eight institutions, there has been an even greater disadvantage for the Flemings and only a very slight improvement in six institutions; - whereas at least 11 of these 14 institutions do not respect language framework relations to the detriment of the Flemings; - whereas this prevents many promising young Flemish graduates from moving to a scientific career; Asks the Secretary of State for Science Policy to take all necessary measures in the very short term to ensure that the real language relations in all the Federal Scientific Institutions, as far as the Flemish are concerned, comply at least with the language relationships as laid down in the language frameworks." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, in charge of the Big Cities, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Home Affairs, - having regard to the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966 (LLC); - Whereas the LLCs stipulate that jobs between the language groups of the central government services must be distributed "taking into account, to all degrees of the hierarchy, the importance of the French-language region and the Dutch-language region for each service, respectively"; - Whereas almost 60 % of the population of the country are Dutch-speaking; - having regard to the linguistic frameworks of the various federal scientific institutions; - Whereas these linguistic frameworks are rarely in line with "the importance of the French-speaking region and the Dutch-speaking region respectively" and seriously affect the Dutch-speaking population; - Considering that, according to the federal website pdata, 52% of the jobs in federal scientific institutions were occupied by Francophones on 30 June 2016 and only 48% by Dutch speakers; - Whereas this distribution further accentuates the linguistic distribution already unfavourable to Dutch-speaking people as established under the language frameworks of federal scientific institutions; - Whereas this imbalance has persisted for decades and the progress made has been meagre; - Whereas in the last two years no progress has been made in correcting this imbalance within the federal scientific institutions as a whole; - Whereas in each of these establishments there has been an even greater imbalance over the last two years at the expense of Dutch speakers in 8 establishments and a very slight improvement in only 6 establishments; - Whereas in at least 11 of these 14 institutions the proportion of the language framework is not respected to the detriment of Dutch speakers; - Whereas, as a result, many talented young Flemish graduates do not have the opportunity to move towards a scientific career; Calls on the Secretary of State for Science Policy to take all necessary measures in the very near future to ensure that the linguistic distribution in all federal scientific institutions is at least in full compliance with the distribution provided for by the linguistic frameworks for Dutch speakers." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u17	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in her statement of general policy, Mrs Sleurs, your predecessor, told us from the beginning of the legislature that she wished to move forward in the reform of scientific policy. By "reform" means "disintegration"; I think we can use that word. In her statement, Ms. Sleurs stated: "In the same spirit of rationalization as for federal scientific institutions, the Science Policy PPS is removed. It is integrated elsewhere as a Directorate-General." At the beginning of the legislature, it was also necessary to create a Space Agency and to make federal scientific institutions autonomous. I will not mention what Mrs Sleurs said in this committee. It's well known to everyone. The aim was to empower the various institutions, to see whether collaborations with private actors or other authorities could possibly be established. There were rationalization considerations. And it was a question of these institutions developing shared services to make economies of scale. As far as the Space Agency is concerned, we were told in the agreement that: "All the staff resources and financial resources that the federal departments devote to space activities will be grouped into an Interfederal Office for Space, with legal personality, involving the Regions." To date, we are waiting to learn more about this issue. It is therefore clear that staff and financial resources came from BELSPO and should be part of the transfer to this Interfederal Space Agency. That's what I'm getting at. There is the question of relevance, from my point of view, and from the point of view of the opposition, which is very questionable. We have already discussed it. It can be seen that the various elements of the announced reform are mixed. Indeed, there is no Space Agency without BELSPO staff or decentralized support for federal scientific institutions, if the department were to disappear before its parts or before the implementation of the proposed reforms. In this regard, discussions would take place with the SPF Economy about full integration and in the state of BELSPO. In addition to the interest that this immediate integration might have before the various elements of the reform have been achieved, my question will be simple: are these discussions with the SPF Economy and your colleague Peeters actually taking place? If so, what is the timing of this transfer from BELSPO to the Economy FPS? BELSPO being a larger entity than the Economy FPS, a smaller entity would absorb a larger entity. Do you consider it reasonable to proceed with this integration before splitting the different parts of BELSPO and making them autonomous, such as the Space Agency and scientific institutions? I note that this strategy is contrary to what is contained in the government agreement. We were told that we would first create the Space Agency before transferring and not integrate BELSPO into a FPS before carrying out the so-called decentralization operations. This is therefore contrary to the government agreement where the removal of BELSPO appeared to be that of the remainder of its activities: anything that would not have been transferred to the Space Agency or scientific institutions would be integrated into a SPF or SPP. Finally, I wonder what connection there might be between this curious strategy of anticipation and the fear that you may feel that the appeals brought by the former President of BELSPO will not succeed. Your real intention would then, in reality, only be to prevent his return by suppressing, in haste, the department he had previously headed. This is the first question I wanted to ask you at the beginning of your term of office, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, I have before me a request concerning Mr Cheron's joint questions 17445 and 17446 on the same subject. Is this a problem for you if we bring them together in the answer? The content seems to me to be the same. Since you're the one who put the questions together, I wanted to save time. But, Mr. President, I confiscate your prerogatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u19	As you said, it is the government that decides the clustering of issues. That is not the choice of the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u20	Mr. Cheron is being questioned because he is the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u21	In any case, my first question about BELSPO is almost the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u22	Mr. President, they can follow each other. I'd rather we deal with this right after. That's what I thought I was doing. That way, we stay in the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u23	You have your hand, Madam Secretary of State. Answer Mr. Delizée's question!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Délizée, within the government, it has been agreed that the integration of the Science Policy PPS into another structure is a different matter from that of the empowerment of federal scientific institutions and the creation of an Interfederal Space Agency. In practice, the integration of the Science Policy PPS will be faster because, by definition, a PPS is an interim structure. The administrative path leading to its abolition is easier and faster than the creation of new management bodies and the empowerment of existing public services, which are much more complex subjects. For the time being, discussions are under way with the SPF Economy to make the transition to a Science Policy Branch possible. Let me remind you that the Science Policy PPS was founded within the Economy FPS. The dossier concerning the previous Science Policy PPS does not play any role in this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u25	Mr President, I thank the Secretary-General for her answer, which does not answer the question on timing. In my opinion, and I indicated it, the files are mixed. They were very clear through Mrs Sleurs' statements in committee since the beginning of the legislature. What we are witnessing is a change in the sequence, that is to say, according to the guidance note and the statements made by Ms. Sleurs in committee, it was, as a first step, to form the Space Agency, on the one hand, and to make the federal scientific institutions autonomous, on the other hand, the remainder being destined to join the FPS Economy. You reverse the sequence and, in my view, there is a clear link to the procedures here in progress; I suppose you won't tell us. However, what is the timetable for this integration? You're telling me it'll be easier and faster. It will also be easier because the Space Agency is taking time to see and we haven't seen anything yet! It is rather because of the waste of time on this file that you may make other arrangements but, in any case, you do not answer the question of the timetable. Can you tell us more about the timing of this integration? In the end, you will take all of BELSPO, integrate it into the SPF by saying that BELSPO is a more important entity today than the SPF is. So that is not exactly what is announced in the government agreement and that is not exactly what your predecessor explained to us here. You intend to reverse the order of things. But when will this integration take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u26	That is a second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u27	I asked it in my initial question, but I did not receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u28	I'm not gonna pin myself on timing right now. That wouldn't be wise. I will present my policy paper as soon as possible. We are working on it, but to say now that we would be landing next month, for example... I do not think it is wise to do politics in this way. The result is more important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u29	I am not asking you to give me a precise date, but a timetable in broad terms. We will have the opportunity to come back to this issue on 18 April when you present your guidance note. I hope that you will then be able to give us more information on the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u30	I thank Mr de Lamotte for the interim that he has done very well. As agreed, I propose that we move to item 10 to stay on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, I'm going to pretend I didn't hear your answer in order to rest the same question. I don't have much experience with this committee. But I have the impression, if I may, without being very scientific, that if the questions were better grouped, it might be a bit more coherent. My question is exactly the same. But I'm going to rest it differently, in my Walloon Brabant style. So it will be a little different.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u32	This is the role of the Minister or Secretary of State. It is not the Presidency that manages clustering.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u33	It depends on the commissions. But I'm not gonna get involved. I am not a candidate for the chairmanship of a committee. It's too dangerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u34	We shall do so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u35	Whatever! We're not here to talk about weirdness. This country is surreal, as we know. This is not a question. Madam Secretary of State, what is going to happen with BELSPO? That's the real question. To put it more simply, reform was envisaged at the beginning of the legislature. In particular, we have learned that what should remain of BELSPO, after a supposed reform, would be attached to a general directorate of the SPF Economy, which is subordinate to Minister Kris Peeters – this is a detail. Logically, we should have a centralized control that would be integrated into a FPS Economy Directorate-General. One can wonder about the value of such a policy. Ms. Sleurs' responses included promoting economies of scale and strengthening federal science institutions through empowerment. One wonders if this is a good reform, because what has been done from a collective point of view, with economies of scale, will have to be distributed among the FSEs, who themselves will have to set up services that they did not have and which they had with BELSPO. One wonders if, in total, there will be any real economies of scale, because the BELSPO structure provided this logistical support to federal scientific institutions. From this point of view, one wonders whether this is really a good reform from the point of view of the goed bestuur. We'll get back to it. Indeed, the clusters will probably have to recreate within them the services currently provided by BELSPO – I will come back to that in my second question. As a result, the human, material and financial resources that they will mobilize to do so will be mechanically deducted from those they now devote to their core missions, even though the savings imposed by the government have already led the FSEs to separate by 9% of their staff. Will each cluster be able to develop its own personnel, accounting, legal and translation services? Will the overall cost of these missions not be higher than that of BELSPO? In short, are these really economies of scale? Finally, given the integration of BELSPO's remaining balance into the SPF Economy, which minister will exercise control over it? How will skills be distributed? Mr President, I come to my second question. Ms. Secretary of State, shortly before she left, Ms. Sleurs was still in discussion with the federal scientific institutions (FSIs) to define their new operating structure. Spring was announced – and it's obviously there! - as the key moment for the renewal of the structures and the men who led them, whose mandate expires at the end of April – in other words, we are very close to it. The decision has already been taken. This change will have a significant impact on the approximately 4,000 people working in the ten federal science institutions. At the beginning of February, there were four clusters – no longer two or three – bringing together the FSEs by theme with a board of directors and management bodies. This structure seemed to be better received by the actors in the file than that of the two "super clusters" initially envisaged. I will not trace its history, even though I am a trained historian. We are not going to dwell on the subject. In concrete terms, an "art" cluster would bring together the Royal Museums of Fine Arts and two federal institutions located in the Cinquantenaire: the Royal Museum of Art and History (MRAH) and the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage (IRPA) – an excellent institute, moreover. A "universe" cluster – a very ambitious one – would bring together the three institutions on the Uccle plateau: the Observatory, the Meteorological Institute and the Institute of Space Aeronomy. A third memory cluster would link the Royal Library (Albertine) to the State Archives. Finally, a fourth, called "nature and society", would be composed of the Museum of Natural Sciences and the Museum of Central Africa of Tervuren, which is being renovated. I hope, Mr. Chairman, that we will be invited to the inauguration of this place with a magnificent federal heritage. Finally, each cluster would have its own staffing, equivalent to what all of the FSEs that make up it received. The revenue that an institution would derive from its activities would no longer come directly from it and would feed into the pool of the cluster to which it belongs. In addition, at a meeting with the Directors-General of the FSEs, they suggested that the future legal status of each entity, together with its Director-General and Council, might differ according to the various constraints of the institutions, which are also diverse. Madam Secretary of State, where is this recast, the spring having arrived? Is the four-entity formula the one that will be used? Is the principle of reallocation of revenue within a cluster endorsed? Will the legal structure be fixed or will some flexibility be appropriate, as requested by the FSOs themselves? Finally, what will the composition of the CAs be?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u36	Mr President, there are two questions for which I will give a single answer. Under the mandate of Elke Sleurs, a series of directions have been taken on the empowerment of federal science institutions. As part of the empowerment of federal science institutions (FSIs), the government agreement states that federal science institutions must develop common services in order to achieve economies of scale. From this perspective, it is more than desirable to integrate these common services into these respective autonomous units, each of which consists of several ESFs. After a study and at the express request of the FSEs themselves, four such units or groupings were proposed, which the government also approved. For the moment, we are working on the scenario and, I would like to stress, in the greatest cooperation with the institutions concerned. The financial and legal aspects are not forgotten in this discussion. In this context, we intend to pay particular attention to the identity of each entity. I think it's important. With regard to the budgetary flows within the unborn entities, the efficiency gains and the start-up costs or the final legal form that these entities will adopt, I am not yet in a position to tell you more. Finally, we are still in the middle of preparatory work. As a result, it is still far too early to discuss the composition of the board. After all, these are an important incentive to work efficiently. The principle of a correct return is also part of the ongoing exercise. Finally, I would like to reassure you about the supervision of the ESFs and the Directorate-General for Scientific Policy. Whether it is the autonomous ESF, the new Interfederal Space Agency or the Directorate General of Scientific Policy within the SPF Economy, everything will remain under the supervision of the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy. I compare here with the Social Security FPS, within which I am also responsible for the supervision of the Disability DG.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u37	Mr President, you will notice that I have not received a response on BELSPO. But I had already received it before and we will therefore consider that I have received it. It's okay, I understand! I understand what the Secretary of State has said about the FSEs. You seem to clearly confirm the four-scenario rather than two-cluster scenario. I heard what you said about maintaining identity. We'll see! On the other hand, I understand that the debate on budgetary flows and legal status is still ongoing. One element seems a bit complex to me: the notion of "just return". Is it linked to the specificities of identity issues, i.e. the fact that one institution is not the other in terms of "just return"? Is it in that sense that we need to understand it? I will come back to that with other questions, since in principle no question is asked. Nevertheless, you know that I will come back to that. I have already heard the use of the notion of "just return" but in relation to more complex files. I assume that this is related to the fact that an institution collects special revenues from, among other things, a larger public, such as the Institute of Natural Sciences, which works very well in these terms. As far as guardianship is concerned, I do not know if I can say that I am reassured but I am in any case enlightened, it is the Secretary of State who will continue to have guardianship, despite the transfer of the remainder of BELSPO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u38	As far as the organization of our work is concerned, Mr Senesael requests the postponement of his questions Nos 16807 and 17140. Mrs. Cassart told me she'd be a little late. I'm told she's coming in about 15 minutes. Mrs Jadin, you have questions with Mr Janssen. Are we waiting for Mrs. Cassart? It's up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u40	Mrs. Cassart-Mailleux is on her way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u41	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, a number of research funding programmes are currently being reformed. There is, of course, a need for a funding mechanism for research in the federal government, also outside the scientific institutions. For example, in the areas of public health, criminalism and geography, public services are active with meritorious research and innovation projects. In the Federal Scientific Institutions, however, there are historically grown differences in the dotations. The assignment and the context in which they work have sometimes changed. In the 2016 policy paper of your predecessor, in addition to the independence of the institutions, there was also a review of the distribution of resources between the institutions. I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the state of play in the reform of research funding programmes? Will you ensure that this innovation remains possible in the government, even outside the scientific institutions? Secondly, are you considering reviewing the distribution of financial resources? If so, on the basis of which criteria and priorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u42	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, thank you for your interesting question concerning the renewal of the scientific programme. There are two major innovations in the federal research programme. In the next seven years, the FED-tWIN programme will award no less than 125 research functions aimed at creating sustainable cooperation between the universities and the Federal Scientific Institutions under my jurisdiction. In particular, these are postdoc-level functions, which are linked to federal research themes. These are mainly areas in the humanities and natural sciences. After the first three years, in which 75 posts are appointed, an interim evaluation is also foreseen. It is important to evaluate in-between. This is an innovation inspired by the review by consultant Technopolis Amsterdam of the two largest FWIS, the KMMA Tervuren and the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences. This review pointed out that structural cooperation with universities was a special opportunity and that the necessary critical mass of research could be formed in specific areas. Moreover, cooperation between such institutions and universities is an evolution which we also see in other European countries. This new injection will give young researchers the opportunity to develop challenging careers between the FWI and universities, which should bring both scientific added value and added value to the societal relevance of the FWI. The legal basis for this programme was already approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading. It also received a favourable opinion from the Council of State. In parallel with political decision-making, working groups have also been set up in which the universities and the FWI agree common principles on the selection and follow-up of FED-tWIN researchers. I hope that I will be able to come to Parliament very soon with this renewal, that proposals can be made and that we can approve this before the summer recess. The start-up of the 125 research functions constitutes a substantial and unique innovation for public institutions. More and new federal research themes can be completed in a sustainable way thanks to cooperation with universities, which will lead to an increase in expertise and research output, which is important for society and society. The second programme is the BRAIN programme, which is coming to an end. That is why my cabinet has instructed the administration to renew this programme. This renewal will aim at both continuity and substantive renewal with a view to the policy requirements at federal level. My fellow Members will be given the opportunity to make proposals on such federal policy requirements. The selection process of final project applications will be further supplemented by a discussion of peer reviewer evaluation reports in the evaluation panels. As a result of the savings, the annual budget of the future BRAIN programme will be more than 20% lower than in the past. However, several themes that up to now could only be financed through temporary BRAIN projects will in future be filled in in a sustainable way by the FED-tWIN functions that I explained before. We must make a clear distinction between the resources of research programmes allocated on the basis of the scientific quality of the proposals through the peer review process, on the one hand, and the amounts allocated to the institutions, on the other. The distribution of these amounts has grown organically in the past, without taking into account the overall performance of the institutions. The process of independence which the FWI itself is now willing to implement within this renewed context opens up opportunities for implementing its own policy plans per institution and per cluster, with internal quality management being an important element. It will then be to a large extent the independent entities themselves who determine the use of the funds and thus allow for any budgetary shifts where they themselves consider it desirable. As Secretary of State, it is now my first job to guide the process of self-determination, which I will do to the best of my ability.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I note that a clear timetable has been set for the research programmes so that progress can be made by the summer and the first proposals can be submitted. What surprises me on the second point is that you are waiting for self-determination and only then to go on to clarify, re-calibrate the resources. I think it is important that a number of criteria are put forward to try to correct the historical differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, we all know that digitisation is necessary. It offers many advantages in terms of easy consultation and study of the various works. This is, of course, an important element for the protection of light-sensitive and old works. Our ambition is to accelerate that process as much as possible. To this end, the Policy Paper "Digital Agenda 2017" proposed the establishment of an interdepartmental platform for digital archiving. What is the state of play of the digitisation of the collections of the Royal Library of Belgium? How many pieces will be digitized in 2017? What is the estimated cost and delivery time for the platform as proposed in the policy paper? Which public service or institution will manage this platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u45	Mr Van Peteghem, on your first question on how many pieces will be digitised, I can give you the state of play in writing until the end of 2016. That's how I get to your next questions. Within the framework of the DIGIT-03 programme, for the digitisation of the scientific and cultural heritage of the Federal Scientific Institutions and the Royal Belgian Film Archive, a long-term preservation platform for the digitised heritage was installed, the LTP platform. This platform is fully complementary to the archiving initiatives planned under the digital agenda of Minister De Croo. The LTP platform is the best and most effective guarantee for the Federal Scientific Institutions and the Royal Belgian Film Archive to keep the digitized files in a safe place, not insignificant, and to maintain the integrity of these files sustainably. The total cost of installing and using infrastructure over five years is currently estimated at EUR 5.35 million. After the start-up phase, the LTP platform has been operational since 1 January 2017. The implementation and exploitation of this platform are coordinated by the administration of the Federal Science Policy. The installation and operation of this platform are provided by service providers. The infrastructure is hosted in two federal data centers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u46	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply and for the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u47	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this question is about collection management. Collection management is of course wider than just collecting and decollecting. It is important to take account of all kinds of requirements, climate and building technology. This will enable efficiency gains to be made. In your predecessor's policy paper there was a very important paragraph on the decolonisation policy. Our position on this is very clear: we do not want to de-collect for purely budgetary reasons. However, if there are dozens of doubles in a collection, a rational balance must be made that takes account of the annual cost. I have the following questions. Are there opportunities for more common organisation of the preservation of collections? Can economies of scale be created here? What is the estimate of the value in euro of the collections of the different institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u48	Mr Van Peteghem, thank you for this question. In the area of joint preservation of federal collections, initiatives have already been taken in the past, for example, by opening up storage spaces to other federal scientific institutions. The Péronnes-lez-Binche warehouse will host tertiary collections of three FWI managed separately. It mainly concerns doubles of the legal deposit from the Royal Library. Due to the technical and material diversity of these collections, as well as the different material storage conditions and infrastructure, it is not evident to organise common storage spaces and capacity. It should also be borne in mind that some FWI are affected by late and essential renovation works which should optimise storage conditions in the coming years. In addition to these circumstances, the additional expenses for removal operations and the expertise required for the selection of collections should also be borne in mind. In the short term, economies of scale do not seem feasible. The first scale advantage starts with a rational acquisition and valorisation policy in the institutions. Nine out of ten Federal Scientific Institutions have made estimates in the past to give financial value to the preserved artistic, historical and scientific collections and heritage, including archives and libraries. Because not always comparable methods and definitions of valuation were used and, for example, subsets as unique databases were not included in the valuations, nine out of ten Federal Scientific Institutions came to a total but cautious estimate of around EUR 2.8331 billion. For the ten FWI, the value of the heritage is therefore more than EUR 3 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u49	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply and for the estimate. As far as the preservation of collections is concerned, I can understand your view that it is difficult to put everything together in a large depot, but I believe that there may be some efficiency gains there. I believe that there are so many requirements for the preservation, collection and preservation of documents that collecting and bringing together knowledge can be an added value for the collection and there are certainly efficiency gains possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u50	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the Belgian Museum of Natural Sciences recently announced the setting up of a crowdfunding campaign to obtain funding of the order of 25,000 euros as part of a project to exhibit the skeleton of a plateosaur. I had already had the opportunity to tell your predecessor, Secretary of State Elke Sleurs, that it is interesting to maximize all possible sources of funding, including the appeal to the general public in a spirit of participation in culture for all. As the museum's communication manager rightly stated, "crowdfundinq has been a real marketing choice. With a dinosaur, there's a pride of the public, an identification. We wanted to involve people in the project and we believe a lot." If you will allow me, I too believe in it and I very clearly welcome this initiative. The use of this type of mechanism is now a practice increasingly used by federal museums. However, it seems to me appropriate that a specific strategy can be defined and implemented to facilitate this type of alternative financing, which, it should be stressed, should not be a substitute for the budgetary efforts of the public authorities. Madam Secretary of State, what is your position on practice? Are you convinced of its usefulness and strengths in providing alternative funding for specific projects in federal museums? Are you in favour of defining and implementing a common strategy for all the museum poles involved in crowdfunding? If so, what steps do you intend to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u51	Mr President, I think crowdfunding is an important tool for carrying out certain projects. Fund-raising is not the only advantage, but the participative side that this type of action involves is also an essential aspect. Donors commit themselves both mentally and financially and this increases their personal involvement in the ultimate goal. In the case of the only plateosaur of the Museum of Natural Sciences, for example, 25,000 euros are needed to install the skeleton on a tailor-made frame, to mount the podium and to create educational material. For this reason, the concept of the Plateoteam was imagined. The "plateo-friends" receive in exchange for their participation a private guided tour behind the screens of the paleontological laboratory, a VIP invitation or, for children, a "dino-day". However, the possibility of implementing this kind of action, which goes well in the media, does not arise every week. It is up to federal scientific institutions to estimate the situation on a case-by-case basis. This has already happened on several occasions, for example for the purchase of tablets as part of the exhibition dedicated to Japanese prints at the Royal Museums of Art and History and for the restoration of a painting by Gauguin at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium. Moreover, the target audience of the respective institutions is different. It is therefore up to their managements to determine the actions for which they will put in place crowdfunding and the most appropriate method to reach the desired audience. I intend to keep this system. It goes without saying that, in addition to public funding, we will have to continue to exploit the traditional forms of sponsorship and sponsorship.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. As you said, crowdfunding should not, of course, be limited to fund-raising, even if this is not negligible. Indeed, its participative dimension, which enables the general public to take ownership of culture, should be emphasized. I can only encourage you to continue on this path, because this method of financing can be in addition to government intervention and sponsorship.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u53	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's arrival is always announced! Patience, Madame Jadin!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u54	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, your predecessor has set up an inspection mission to Antarctica. The mission had two objectives. First, conduct an airstrip inspection mission to Romnoes "Blue Eyes" (60 km from the polar station) and conduct a more in-depth study of the activities already carried out and the current status of the airstrip issue. Secondly, make a visit to Princess Elisabeth station in order to inspect the station, its equipment and its activities, in compliance with the Antarctic Treaty, with particular attention to the permits issued by Belgium and compliance with environmental commitments. It was therefore a matter of visually inspecting the building to see if it was in order. The proposed budget for BELSPO's mission was estimated at €230,000. This estimate was based on the actual cost of transportation to Antarctica via Cape Town, as well as on certain variable costs, such as communication costs in Antarctica. This mission was Ms. Sleurs' last act in her capacity as Secretary of State and took place as your predecessor relinquished her mandate and you were preparing to resume it. While the objectives, if they justified an expenditure of several hundred thousand euros, were already in question, the mission also seems not to have been glorious. Norway, initially involved, withdrew. Some inspectors reportedly stayed in Cape Town. The group would have been caught in bad weather and would have taken extra, costly and disruptive flights for the international logistics organization in Antarctica. The team wouldn't have gone to Romnoes. It would seem, however, that this mission has cost much more than your predecessor, Mrs Sleurs, probably in the 300 000 to 350 000 euros. Madam Secretary of State, what was the actual and total cost of the mission, including the preparation costs, salaries and miscellaneous costs of the inspectors concerned? How was this mission funded? On which budgets were the Mission's expenditures recorded? What was the value of a visual inspection of the station? What fears or suspicions did they justify such an expenditure? Do you believe that the objectives of this mission justified this expenditure? Do you think this mission has fulfilled its objectives and been a success? What are the results and findings of this study? Did the mission go to the airstrip in Romnoes? How long did she stay at Princess Elisabeth base?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u55	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, because of the nature of your question relating to figures and because of the very short period of time, I can only refrain from replying. The administration of the Scientific Policy is collecting all the required figures. As soon as I have received them - I think it will be today or tomorrow - I will send them to you in writing, if you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, I can understand that this requires some preparation. Maybe the delay was a little tight. Answer me in writing as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u57	With transmission to the secretariat, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u58	So that everyone can enjoy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u59	As far as the inspection report is concerned, I am waiting for it. As soon as I receive it, I will answer your question, perhaps on April 18, when I present my policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u60	So I'm waiting for your mail for the first answer and you're waiting for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u61	You're too fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u62	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the oceanographic ship of the Belgian Scientific Policy, 33 years old, has been docked for a year due to several problems. The Council of Ministers recently released a budget of EUR 54.5 million to replace it by 2020. That's the information your predecessor had given us. In the meantime, the vessel remains at dockside and maintenance costs continue to run. Similarly, it is no longer possible for the Belgica to carry out its meteorological monitoring missions for international organizations or to carry out the current contracts with certain universities. Madam Secretary of State, is there any plans to rehabilitate, even partially, the vessel? If so, within what time frame? Is it also envisaged that the ship will be upgraded for a possible sale? How many people do they work on Belgica? What will happen to their contract in 2020? What is the cost of the ship at dockside? What is the loss for Belgium because it has not been able to carry out its tasks for a year? What are the returns of international organizations and sponsors on this situation? What were the contracts under way? How many contracts have been lost?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u63	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I've been following this case for some time. It had been decided to organize urgent maintenance work to keep the vessel afloat for three to four years. However, for the past year, the Belgica has been docked, following several technical damage. This is a problem. On the one hand, Belgium has meteorological monitoring obligations vis-à-vis certain international organisations and, on the other hand, the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences has ongoing contracts with certain sponsors, such as universities or research centres. For example, students from the University of Ghent have been waiting for several months to board the Belgica as part of their training. You will agree that this situation is somewhat boring or even unfortunate. The new vessel should take over the tasks of the current Belgica, namely research, training and education, monitoring and disaster support. Thanks to the additional navigation time, this vessel will be able to accommodate new users of the marine industry. Your predecessor, Ms Sleurs, had indicated in committee that after consultation, the companies indicated that they wished to rent the new research vessel on a commercial basis. In this way, the Belgian State could recover part of the operating costs. Madam Secretary of State, what is the technical damage to Belgica? Why is Damen Shiprepair Dunkirk in charge of maintenance not doing what is necessary to remedy this problem? Is it fulfilling the commitments made? What measures are you planning to take so that damage can be repaired as soon as possible? Is the current situation compatible with Belgium's obligations vis-à-vis international organisations? What about the contracts under way between the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences and sponsors, including research centres and universities? With regard to the 2017 missions, can we hope for a change in the situation and the continuation of certain missions? Do you think that the image currently returned by Belgium will encourage companies to rent the new research vessel? Is this not a hindrance to a future partnership?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u64	Madam Secretary of State, the Belgica has been deployed for more than 30 years for missions and missions of international organisations. For some time now, the ship is no longer seaworthy. It is no longer possible to launch, which means that current orders cannot be executed. New orders are also excluded, given the uncertainty about the ship's restart. The Federal Council of Ministers has in the past provided a budget for the replacement of the ship. Madam Secretary of State, is the ship's replacement the most cost-effective solution? At what time do you intend to submit a specifications to the Council of Ministers? In this case, at what time can we expect a replacement of the Belgica?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u65	Mr President, my answer will be a little more extensive because it concerns three pertinent questions. Thank you for your questions. A major maintenance of the oceanographic research vessel RV Belgica took place between the end of March 2016 and the end of August 2016 in order to solve the problems of obsolescence following the advanced age of the vessel. The RV Belgica should have been operational by the end of August. However, the company responsible for maintenance fails to resolve a technical problem that prevents the operation of the vessel. It has recently carried out new tests and evaluated RV Belgica to determine the exact causes of these difficulties. The results are expected by the beginning of next month. As regards the future of RV Belgica beyond 2020, i.e. after the entry into service of the new building, nothing has yet been decided. Several avenues were proposed during the 2009 Feasibility Study and the 2014 Funding Study. The ship's crew, financed by the KBIN, consists of sixteen persons from the Ministry of Defence. More than 300 researchers each year call on the RV Belgica for research and monitoring activities. In addition, more than a thousand researchers depend indirectly on the RV Belgica, because they use the samples or results taken by other researchers. No direct contract of employment is linked to the research vessel Belgica itself, so there is no impact on staff until 2020. The operating costs of RV Belgica are divided into four items: staff, maintenance, energy supply and costs related to scientific campaigns. The annual operating budget is approximately €2.8 million. Although the ship is at dockside, the economy can only be achieved on campaign costs and partly on energy supply. Most operating costs are fixed costs. Moreover, the unavailability of the Belgica VR has a budgetary impact. In order to meet international obligations, other vessels had to be chartered at a current cost of 85,000 euros for the period 2016-2017. In addition, there is still a loss of revenue of around 90 000 euros because a fishing campaign in Europe could not be carried out and, as far as offshore monitoring is concerned, this is a loss of about 12,500 euros. In the period 2016-2017, 111 days at sea were to be deleted, covering some 40 research and monitoring programmes. For some monitoring missions, other ships had to be chartered, which resulted in additional costs. Most missions depend on the availability of the RV Belgica. Given the current situation, little or no scientific data could be collected that is essential for the implementation of the different directives and conventions. For the performance of certain monitoring tasks, the IRSNB enters into a contract with other research centres or universities. This subcontracting activity is also part of the future of RV Belgica. At the moment, I have not had any negative reactions from the companies interested in renting the new ship following the problems with the RV Belgica. On the other hand, the researchers and users of the current RV Belgica informed me of their concerns about the technical problems and the impact of the ship's unavailability on their research and monitoring activities. The unavailability of the RV Belgica and its consequences show more than ever how necessary an operational research vessel is for Belgium. So there is very much looking forward to the new ship that will replace the RV Belgica. The current research vessel Belgica is now 32 years old. It's highly outdated. That's gonna cost a lot of maintenance. By the way, it hasn't sailed for almost a year. It should have been replaced after 25 years of service. So the writing-out of the cutlery should have been done ten years ago. I'm finding that didn't happen. After all, many things cannot take place as a result. This is a pity with regard to scientific research, all the more so because we and the previous government knew that the ship should have been replaced after 25 years of service. Mr Janssen, the file is complete. I've taken the time over the last few weeks to make the cutlery, too. It's all round. It's prepared. I will submit the dossier to the next Council of Ministers or the subsequent Council of Ministers. Previous analyses have shown that the most cost-effective solution in the long term is the replacement of the current ship. If the public contract can be awarded this year, the delivery of the new vessel can take place in 2020. It is important that a decision is taken quickly by the Council of Ministers. All the elements are on the table to accept our responsibility as government. At least the research community is counting on us. It should have happened sooner, but the file is now ready. It will therefore be presented to the Council of Ministers in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u66	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the various clarifications you have given us. I think the file is moving forward. As you said, this one is important. Research is one of the important pillars of our economy for me. I realize that we are reaching the ends of the case. You say that the specifications can be drawn up again this year. I think we have to put the double bites, but I'm counting on you for that. This means that the ship would be delivered in 2020. There's a postponement, but I understand it takes time. I know the public thing takes time. But I think that the sector is worth it and that we really need to put the double bites in this dossier which has been squeaking for some time, let us dare say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u67	Madam Secretary of State, it is a pity to note that certain dossiers should have been dealt with by now. This issue too should have been resolved by previous governments. I am glad that you take the bull by the horns and that there is an agreement to submit it to the Council of Ministers. We can only hope that the Council of Ministers will accept the proposals you are making. There is a certain period of time between an award and a delivery. The year 2020 will not be fast enough for some. In any case, a decision has to be made. She will be taken and there will be a new ship. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, Frank Pattyn, glaciologist at the ULB, explained in Science Mag of 17 January 2017 that the Belgian government had expressly prohibited any Belgian scientist from going to the station. This was confirmed during the reading of a letter from Mr Delcourt addressed to Alain Hubert dated 1 December 2016 by your predecessor, Mrs Elke Sleurs. I quote from this: "The projects and scientific experiments under way at Princess Elisabeth station, funded by BELSPO as part of its research programme, are suspended". We also know, by the scientists concerned, that BELSPO expressly ordered Belgian scientists involved in research projects at the station to refuse contact with anyone at the station. This has led to situations where researchers have had to refuse the International Polar Foundation to transmit to them the data collected during the year by the instruments installed at the station. This ban on scientists from going to the station, from maintaining contacts and from receiving research data runs counter to the advancement of science. Your administration has in this, under the supervision of your predecessor, done the opposite of its mission. It's awful. However, your arrival and your initial remarks on the polar station gave us hope. You said and emphasized in plenary session on 16 March 2017 that you put scientific research first. You reiterated that "the role of the State is, in the first place, to facilitate scientific research in Antarctica". These comments are taken from a press article. To date, however, there are data without scientists and scientists without data. You can, by your will, make up for this. Madam Secretary of State, will you lift the suspension of ongoing projects and experiments at the Polar Station? Will you allow researchers to accept the data collected throughout the year by the instruments installed at the station? Will you encourage this data transfer for the benefit of science? Could you send us a copy of the letters sent by BELSPO to the scientists concerning the suspension of the programmes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u69	Mr de Lamotte, the letter, which I can provide you with a copy of, was intended solely to safeguard the financial interests of the Belgian State. I believe that it is in the common interest that current scientific projects resume as soon as possible and that new projects appear at the polar station. We will do our utmost to ensure that this is the case. In this context, I ask all those involved in this matter to go in this direction alone. It will also be one of the discussion points of the next Strategic Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u70	Madam Secretary of State, I requested that scientists receive data for consultation. I understand that your proposal is in that direction. Also, thank you for this change of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u71	Since Mr Miller was suffering, his question No 16868 was transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u72	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I have asked your predecessor about the cooperation agreement between China and Belgium on the use of satellite images. Ms Sleurs had replied at the time that the memorandum of understanding, concluded in June 2015 between BELSPO and CNSA, provided for the establishment of a Joint Committee between the two parties in order to promote and coordinate the activities undertaken within the framework of this memorandum. This Joint Committee is of particular importance in the preparation of agreements for the support and implementation of several projects of high importance to both partners. It will therefore be possible to speed up contacts. Madam Secretary of State, has the Joint Committee already been set up? If so, what is the composition? If not, do you already have a specific timetable for its implementation? If so, is the implementation of this committee already bearing fruit? Have any contracts been concluded with our Chinese partners? What are the possible obstacles facing the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u73	Mr President, dear colleague, on the Belgian side, it was agreed that the Joint Committee would be composed of representatives of BELSPO. However, China has not yet defined its representation. The Joint Committee has therefore not yet met, strictly speaking. In order to advance the Vegetation project, the Joint Working Group consisting of representatives of BELSPO and CNSA has been set up. Two videoconferences have already taken place on 8 July and 17 November 2016 as part of this Joint Working Group. The first project planned in cooperation with China would cover the continuation of Vegetation activities. Mission scenarios have been studied within the framework of the European Space Agency. This has made it possible to define, since 2016, the specifications of an instrument Vegetation to take away on a Chinese platform. A programme proposal was discussed within ESA. However, the discussion did not conclude on issues of technology export restrictions in China. At the last meeting of the Joint Working Group held on 17 November 2016, this impossibility was communicated to the Chinese and an alternative scenario was proposed by Belgium, namely a new proposal based on the Belgian involvement only in the processing of the data of a possible Chinese mission. To date, we are still waiting for the Chinese to respond to this new proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u74	Madam Secretary of State, it seems that work is changing. I will return to this case in due course. I guess you'll be hearing from the Chinese soon. If that's not the case, maybe you could reinvigorate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u75	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I have already asked your predecessor, Mrs Sleurs, in the past about the cooperation agreement between China and Belgium on the use of satellite images. From this scientific collaboration, combined with the Belgian industrial expertise acquired in the meantime in the field of Earth observation by satellite, the idea was born to set up a Belgian-Chinese mission in this field. Both industry and end-users hoped that this mission would lead to the succession of the operational Belgian mini-satellite PROBA-VEGETATION. Unfortunately, as the composition of the Joint Committee was delayed and the life of the PROBA-V satellite was limited, it was urgent and necessary to take concrete steps to ensure the future of this monitoring programme. It was agreed that ESA would make a proposal in this regard following the Ministerial Conference in December 2016. Madam Secretary of State, following this conference, can you tell me what proposal has been made to ensure the future of the PROBA-V programme? Is cooperation with China in this area possible? What is the deadline for PROBA-V?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u76	In preparation for the December 2016 ESA Ministerial Conference in Lucerne, the Belgian Council of Ministers endorsed a €48.81 million support for the development of a VEGETATION suite. BELSPO asked ESA to study different mission scenarios and related costs and deadlines: on the one hand, the specifications of a VEGETATION instrument related to user needs and, on the other hand, the specifications of a mission that would combine several instruments. This information will be available in the middle of the year. They will enable us to define an appropriate programme according to the means available. Since the results have not been conclusive, we will again have discussions on a Belgian-Chinese mission including an instrument developed in Belgium. We are currently considering a mainly Belgian mission within a European framework. On the other hand, the option remains with regard to Belgium's strong involvement in the processing of data for a possible Chinese mission. Meanwhile, the current PROBA-V mission has been officially extended by one year, until the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u77	Madam Secretary of State, I simply thank you for your clarification. I know that you have just arrived and that these are very specific and very technical files. The fact that PROBA-V has been extended will allow you to continue to look after this case. You have taken other directions in relation to Europe and I will come back to you when you have been able to take stock of this complex issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u78	Madam Secretary of State, this is an important issue. As a reminder, the objective is to increase the internal conservation capacity of the General Archives of the Kingdom and the State Archives in the provinces, to make security copies and to acquire a new management system for the long-term preservation of archival collections. Initially, this file was to be closed by March 2016 in order to publish the circular and the ministerial decree. A year later, in March 2017, I want to take stock with you and see this file close as soon as possible. Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of this case? Is it closed? If not, wouldn't it be time to move things forward? When will the circular and ministerial order be published? Of course, you have just taken up your duties and these files have been designed for some time. I don't want to put pressure on you, but I find it interesting to take stock with you in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u79	Mr President, the ministerial decree of 12 December 2016 partially implementing Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 18 August 2010 implementing Articles 5 and 6 of the Law of 24 June 1955 on archives was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 21 December 2016. The circular concerning the ministerial decree was issued on the same day. For the State Archives, the publication of this Ministerial Order marks a further important step towards a clear regulatory framework aimed at stimulating public services to pursue a rational archival policy aimed at ensuring the sustainable preservation of relevant societal information. Additional information can be found on the State Archives website.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u80	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic629x.u81	We have thus exhausted the agenda. Thank you, Secretary of State, for this first question-and-answer exercise with colleagues. I wish you all a good day. The meeting is adjourned.
