ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 March 2017, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the proposal to amend the Commission's establishment plan for the protection of privacy, No. 2384/1; - the draft law reforming the financing of social security, Nos 2229/1 to 10. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 March 2017, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the proposal to amend the Organic Framework of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, No. 2384/1; - the draft law on the reform of the financing of social security, Nos. 2229/1 to 10. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u3	Colleagues, I received an e-mail from Mr Hedebouw at 1.40 p.m. I quote: "Here is a motion that we would like to put forward to change the agenda. I will give an oral justification at the beginning of the session."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u4	Mr Hedebouw, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u5	Mr President, thank you. This morning's press reports that there is still no agreement to review Members' pensions. However, the agreement-in-principle and debate took place in July 2015. Since July 2015, there has been a certain political will to finally revise Members' pensions. As a reminder, this is the same period during which right-wing parliamentarians voted the decision to work up to 67 years. Workers in Belgium must work up to 67 years but there is no reform for Members. It was believed that an agreement would be reached quickly. That's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen, rather than maintaining the debate only at the level of the meeting of group leaders where, technically speaking, we are not present, we propose today to hold a calm debate in this plenary session. It's important. We table a motion and put to the vote the amendment of the agenda, so as to add a discussion, given the urgency – a year and a half late – to review the pension age of Members who, I would remind you, are still expected to be 55 years old. That's a problem, 55 years against 67 years. There is a certain problem in our country. Mr President, I am therefore tabling a motion to amend the agenda so that we can have a debate on this. I'm not gonna bring up the case's fond. It is above all a motion to discuss it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u6	Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u7	Mr. Speaker, it would be appropriate for the Speaker to respond, but I suppose you will. First of all, I've been interested in the file for a few months, and I think we're making good progress. Second, the House also has the right to know that, sometimes, inaccurate things are said. Mr Hedebouw, since 2014, the retirement age is not 55 but 62 years. In case you miss it, write it down for your next misinformation! As far as developments are concerned, I would remind you that it is not our assembly that must decide but our Pension Fund at its next general meeting. There was an agreement from the Conference of Presidents yesterday to bring this item, for decision, before the parliamentary holidays in July. There have been a number of exchanges between the assemblies because we, as members of the House, wanted to align the pension status of all parliamentarians in the country. This is not easy because the situations are different depending on the parliaments. It has been said clearly and unanimously that we are going to align the retirement age with 65, or even 66 or 67, even though – as I recall – my group has not approved and still does not approve of this reduction in retirement age to 67. We respect the democratic vote and will therefore support the passage from 36th to 45th. I think some people want to take the lead in the renovation, but as a reminder, in 2014, we've already gone from 20th in 36th and 55th to 62th. We are therefore only in the evolution and adaptation to the situation of our fellow citizens. This is what all parties in this assembly want, and so it will be before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u8	Mr Hedebouw, I do not have much to add to Mr Frédéric's remarks. Consequently, I can only suggest to the House that you do not accept your proposal. However, you will have a brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u9	I will provide a few small technical answers. I hear we're talking about 62 years; in fact, that's not true! This applies to the new elected officials, you know. For current elected officials, acquired rights are maintained. I simply propose that we open the debate. I am not yet asking for a substantive debate. Since the Pension Fund has to decide, it can still be discussed in plenary session! It's simple, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u10	We have taken note of your proposal. I just have to add that what you're saying is wrong. It's factually incorrect. However, I propose to the Chamber that anyone who supports Mr Hedebouw's proposal... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u11	Mr Van Hees, the proposal has been sufficiently explained. There is a proposal to amend the work. The question is who supports the proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u12	That's pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u13	(...) I'd love to. Are we really going to move the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u14	Mr President, Mr André Frédéric has explained extremely well the situation which emerges from our discussions in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u15	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u16	At the Conference of Presidents, all agreed to a pension reform. We cannot punish our fellow citizens, as the present government does, without sanctioning ourselves. It's obvious! The Conference of Presidents is unanimous on this point. The Conference of Presidents also expressed its willingness to achieve a result by July at the latest. So it's very clear and there's no need for the PTB to do a scramble! The Ecolo-Groen Group, which participates in the Conference of Presidents and shares our position, has asked for the floor. For democratic reasons, before voting, the floor must be given to this group. I plead in their favour that the debate should be informed by their position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u17	It's what you want. I have to tell you, if you open this door, you know where you start, but not where you end up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u18	Mr President, I would like the abstention of...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the floor. Mr Dewael, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u21	Mr President, I would like to ask for the floor in order of order. There has been a question of changing the agenda. Mr Frédéric has intervened. You then asked for a vote and stand up. This one took place. One of the essential rules is that one cannot abstain in a vote and stand up and, therefore, one cannot justify that abstention either. In other words, we must now move on to the order of business, and that is Question Time. Otherwise the Rules of Procedure and the procedure will be abused, just like last week. Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Frédéric has indeed clearly stated the position of the majority in this Chamber. There was a vote on a question to change Mr Hedebouw's agenda and a vote against by Mr Frédéric. You asked the Chamber to speak. The Chamber has spoken out, so that debate is over. I am now pressing for Question Time to begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u22	Meanwhile, he's been talking for a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u23	Mr Hedebouw's motion was rejected. We shall begin Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was prepared to wait a few more minutes, but since you are asking me to ask my question, I am happy to do so. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation of the workers of the Clabecq Forges following the real cry of distress – there is no other word – which was launched this week by the trustees of bankruptcy. The bankruptcy was pronounced twenty years ago, almost day by day. Even today, more than 2,000 workers are awaiting payment of the balance of the allowances due to them. Some of them no longer expect anything: they have died. It is now their heirs who await compensation for the damage suffered. These families do not understand that the State has multiplied the procedures to the point of constantly delaying the settlement of these allowances. They also do not understand that your firm appears to have objected to a categorical non-receipt of the requests made by the curators. This non-receipt, if confirmed, is all the more shocking given that in this case the responsibility of the State is engaged. At the time, however, the State failed to notify the State aid, which in the end was partly the cause of the bankruptcy. Prime Minister, I am not asking you here to take stock of the legal proceedings. Nor do I ask you to waive the State's claim. I ask you, quite simply, to give up putting this claim of the State before that of the workers; to give up making the interests of the State take precedence over those of the workers, who are at least as legitimate. I ask you, Prime Minister, to show humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u25	My colleague, of course, we share the very legitimate concern that you expressed, 20 years after the bankruptcy was declared. This situation is extremely complex from a legal point of view and goes back 30 years. The starting point of the case we are talking about today is thirty years back, when loans were made with the State guarantee. A few years later, the European Commission found that this State guarantee should be regarded as illegal aid. Secondly, I note with you that this case has been the subject of legal disputes for almost fifteen years. Until recently, in all proceedings, the trustees have not consistently been successful in the many procedures that have been introduced. We were, at the start of my cabinet and the Ministry of Finance, questioned by the curators about this situation and the billion 300 million former francs that it originally represented thirty years ago. The current dispute, on the basis of the data provided to me, still relates, in the case of the State, to a debt of 15 million euros. A trial will start again in the court of Nivelles, with an introductory hearing after the summer, in November. My wish is to continue intense contacts with the Ministry of Finance and with the curators and I am committed to them. We will try to find a path, but the rule of law, respect for procedures and the fear that this represents a precedent in other types of similar situations must guide us in the case in question. I confirm to you all the empathy and openness we want to show in this case, but at the same time, principles of law will have to apply and the Nivelles court will still have to rule on this issue in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u26	Prime Minister, you fear a precedent. Actually, there's already one. This case is the longest procedure for the reimbursement of workers from a bankrupt company in Belgium. Objectively, for workers, it is difficult to conceive. You give some legal information and I thank you for that. But beyond legal considerations, even assuming that the Belgian State's position is legally founded, which is contested and questionable, it is, from a social and ethical point of view, untenable. You're opening a door and saying you're looking for a way. I hope that this word will not remain unanswered. I call on you to put an end to this longest procedure to the detriment of workers, and I urge you to refrain from depriving workers of their social rights. If this were not the case, if the path were not found, the families concerned could be led to consider it better for them that Clabecq had been in the north of the country, for example, in the province of Antwerp. Had that been the case, the situation might have been different. I ask you to weigh your weight in the balance so that, beyond legal considerations, social and ethical considerations can also be taken into account. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, that is what has been done: Mrs May officially notified yesterday, Wednesday, 29 March, of her wish to leave the European Union. It is not a surprise, but a new element of concern, a further political fog that is taking place in northern Europe. I must confess that it is still a bit curious, worrying and strange to see Britain weaken this part of Europe, when we are already facing problems on the east side with Mr Putin, when we are experiencing difficulties with Mr Erdogan on the south-east flank and when Mr Trump is also threatening us in the west. Thus, the circle of fears and weakening of the European Union is closing. But we can also see it as an opportunity, Prime Minister. In order to consolidate the European project and fulfil the wish of the Fathers of Europe, who wanted, by means of the Treaty of Rome, an ever closer union of the peoples of Europe, two pitfalls must be avoided. On the one hand, the negotiations must be firm and clear. They cannot take place at the expense of the peoples of Europe. It should not be that through this divorce, which we hope amicably, Britain and, behind it, Mrs May have the butter, the butter money and the rest. On the other hand, once the divorce has been pronounced, it would be wrong to believe that the work has been done. The most important task is that contained in the Rome programme that you supported, in which you participated and which was concluded on 25 March. This text promises and proposes to Europeans a strong and ambitious programme of which we can be proud. My questions are simple, Prime Minister. What are the red lines you intend not to overcome in amicable divorce with Britain? What is the work schedule for this European programme that we wish to see?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday, in a way, it was a black day, since, as my colleague said, the triggering of Article 50 of the Treaty was initiated. This is a very strong contrast, I remember, with the early 1970s, when the then Conservative Prime Minister Edward Heath, on the contrary, put forward the United Kingdom's candidacy. After this withdrawal from the United Kingdom from the European Union, as there will be one later, excellent bilateral relations will have to continue, particularly between Belgium and the United Kingdom. Despite the challenges ahead, it is a message that we must send to our British friends. However, close ties do not prevent responsibility and it is clear, as Georges Dallemagne has said, that Mrs May must be told that it is not possible to have "the butter and the money from selling the butter". Prime Minister, we have a fruitful economic relationship with the United Kingdom which we absolutely must maintain and, if possible, develop. From this perspective, what are the essential elements that you would like to see included in the marble of the free trade agreement that will be negotiated? Furthermore, it is to be welcomed that the British financial institution, Lloyd's, is moving to Brussels. This is a first signal that highlights the assets of our capital, an asset that I hope could appeal to other financial institutions, law firms or the European Medicines Agency. What factors do you think led to this choice? And, above all, how can we proactively attract other decision-making centres to Brussels, based on this first success? Prime Minister, how can we further strengthen the position of Brussels as the financial centre of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I entered the Chamber in 1985, there were 10 members of the European Community. Two members were added, Spain and Portugal. Not as long as they were dictatorships before. Don't let us forget that. The number of members today has grown to 28. Yesterday we heard that a Member State started the procedure to leave the European Union. The United Kingdom is once again opting for a position of splendid isolation today. The British Prime Minister says that she wants a solution that will make things better economically with her country and allow them to trade. It also wants a solution to allow free access to our markets, to play a significant role throughout the world and to protect our common security. Prime Minister, I would like to reply to the British Prime Minister that this solution consists in membership of the European Union. That's the irony of the whole story. Sometimes one only realizes the value of something when one has lost it. Irony, irony. Yesterday's decision is regrettable, but we must respect the ruling of the British people. There are also opportunities, I refer to banks that are considering moving from London to Brussels. Open Vld wants a solution that puts our citizens and our economy at the centre. The British have made their decision, but we have a responsibility to defend the interests of the economy as well. Let's do that. The negotiations are now formally under way. Which red lines do we draw exactly? Can there be a free movement of goods and services without the free movement of people? How do you feel about that? What is our position on the British's outstanding account? What else do they have to pay? Will the United Kingdom be able to start parallel negotiations on free trade agreements? Will we allow them to start negotiations on this subject during the transitional period? Prime Minister, I look forward to your answers with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, 29 March will always be recorded in our history books as Brexit Day, the day when Prime Minister May decided to call in Article 50 and thus launch the UK's farewell from the European Union. Prime Minister May did that on the basis of a letter. I read that letter. In particular, we note in that letter that it hopes that there will still be an in-depth and special partnership between the United Kingdom, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other hand, with a very clear emphasis on economic and security. We can conclude from that that it is looking for a new, ambitious trade agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union. Before we get there, there is still a lot of work to be done. We must avoid uncertainty in this period, between the moment of withdrawal from the European Union and the moment of the new trade agreement. Today we hear many people plead for a hard Brexit, while others argue for a soft Brexit. In my view, we should, above all, seek a pragmatic Brexit, a pragmatic Brexit in which we try to safeguard our economic interests in all possible ways, taking into account, of course, the four freedoms and the fact that we will not overstep the internal market. If the negotiations are started from this pragmatic point of view, we are actually saying that we also agree on the transitional period during the negotiations on the withdrawal agreements. After all, we absolutely must avoid uncertainty or ambiguity for our companies during that transitional period, because uncertainty will have a negative impact on our economy. Prime Minister, what preparations has the government already made for these negotiations? What position will the Belgian Government take in determining the European negotiating mandate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an important moment for our future. Within the framework of the European project, there are two important, delicate, complex and crucial challenges for us. First, a new impetus for a strong European project. That was the intention of the statement in Rome a few days ago. I regard that statement as a positive signal, an optimistic signal for the future. It shows that it is still possible to agree with 27 countries on the fundamental values of the European project. This Rome Declaration is an important step: it is the recognition of our ability to work together at 27 as soon as possible to enable those who wish to do so to move forward, even if an agreement of 27 has not been reached. It is a Belgian and Benelux diplomatic victory. For quite a while, we have pleaded for this recognition in order to emerge from a immobilism, potentially deadly for the European project, in the circumstances highlighted by some parliamentarians in this forum: the election of Donald Trump in Great Britain, the choice of Brexit, the situation in southern Europe and the difficult discussion with Russia. We are actively working on a new impetus for the European project, particularly within the Benelux framework. A large number of meetings will be held in this context in order to make progress in this area. Second important point, the Brexit. It was indeed another historic day yesterday, with the notification by Theresa May of the British electorate's choice. What are the important points in our view? First, there must be a distinction between two aspects in the negotiations. The first concerns the modalities of divorce. These are, as Mr Dewael mentioned, financial issues, all the conditions under which the separation decided in the referendum will take place. The second relates to the future of relations between Britain and the European Union. On these subjects, we will have to work with method, being well prepared. We have made important decisions in Belgium over the last few months, the federal government, together with the Länder, to engage in more consultation with a view to the negotiation process. Together with the Flemish Minister of Economy, we have taken an important initiative to gather many technical and substantive arguments with the High Level Group, led by Mr Buysse, for efficient negotiations. So we have a fairly clear view of the potential economic impacts of this Brexit. We consider it important to maintain a strong and high-quality economic relationship with Britain. It's our interest. We are one of the most potentially affected countries. Safety is also a very important issue. Experience over recent months has shown that it is crucial to maintain strong bilateral cooperation with the United Kingdom, but also more generally at multilateral level in cooperation with the European Union. These are two themes on which we will continue to move forward. Finally, about the preparation, to give some ingredients, in a few weeks, nearly twenty preparatory meetings were held with the federated entities. We will, at the inter-ministerial conference, with the federated entities, on the Consultation Committee when necessary, step after step, follow up on the negotiation. Then what's the red line? What are the main principles? Those are important questions. I cannot give a definitive answer to this today, because there is still an important European summit at the end of April, where the red line will be defined together with the 27 countries. I can confirm today that the four freedoms are very important principles of the European Union. This link, which has always been recognised, between access to the internal market and the four freedoms is obviously one of the most important points. It's a challenge, but it's also an opportunity! Every challenge has an opportunity. I am delighted that the contacts we had with Lloyd's – I met them in Davos – allowed us to make a decision. We are also candidates to host the European Medicines Agency. It's a challenge, it's a challenge, but it's also an opportunity. That is how we will approach these Brexit negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u32	Mr Prime Minister, you are right, this negotiation must be done in the best possible terms, amicably, even if we did not want this divorce, and almost half of the British either! Nevertheless, we will have to be vigilant. Some rather worrying statements have been made by the British Government, particularly with regard to cooperation in the fight against terrorism. In negotiations, concessions will have to be made. But they cannot be done on the backs of Europeans because we would give a particularly worrying signal to the far right and the far left in France, Germany and Belgium, to all those who want to break the European project, to all those who want to weaken it. The timing and terms of the negotiations will be particularly worrying in relation to this electoral agenda in Europe. On the second point, you are right. With regard to the Rome declaration and programme, I am proud of that. I'm proud of the words in this program. We'll have to implement it and I'm counting on you to keep the agenda tight. Citizens expect Europe to relaunch its project of protection and shared prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u33	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It is clear that the United Kingdom outside the Union cannot be better off than within it. Otherwise, it would be a signal to other countries. We have free trade relations with other countries, for example Norway. Even Norway pays over EUR 500 million a year to gain access to the European market. Prime Minister, I know that you will also pay attention to the legal situation of Belgians living in Great Britain and the British in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I'd say every disadvantage has its advantage. It is not up to us to assess the reasons why the British have taken the decision they have taken. We must respect them. I can only say that in recent weeks and months the British have never been more interested in what we are doing. I note that there is an enormous interest in the activities of the European Union and in the security of our country. Let us also take this opportunity to give Parliament an important role. Throughout the Brexit negotiations procedure, which are complex and will last for weeks and months, the European Parliament will obviously have to play its role to finally approve it. Mr President, I am in favour of this Chamber being kept closely informed by the government of the evolution of these negotiations. We must be able to debate this issue regularly in the plenary session of the Advisory Committee on European Affairs. We owe this to our citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u35	What you ask, Mr Dewael, will also happen!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Several speakers have already mentioned that the United Kingdom is one of our most important trading partners. Whatever happens, we're gonna be neighbors. Both in the short and long term, we will continue to trade with each other. In this Brexit period, we must avoid ambiguity for our companies because this may have a negative impact on our economy. If we are to avoid any ambiguity, we must also ensure that there is transparency in the negotiation process. I am talking about transparency to this Parliament, but also to our companies, because they need to be able to prepare, they need to know how everything is going to work, they need to know what prospects they can continue to trade. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u37	Prime Minister, an ambitious public investment pact is essential for sustainable investment in key sectors of our society and in key sectors of our economy. This is essential in order to support and develop fundamental themes for the future of our children, such as energy transition, mobility or the digital revolution. It is also essential in order to show our fellow citizens that politicians are able, together, to carry out long-term mobilising projects, beyond the next election and for the benefit of future generations. As you know, ecologists have been applying since the beginning of such a project and are partners in this important and broad-scale mobilization of public resources. We have already started the work by launching the BE Invest initiative, which consists of a series of symposia, meetings with the economic and trade union players, to feed into the discussions and to have conclusions and recommendations that we will not fail to bring to the debate. You announced last September that you would have a first draft of this investment pact by the end of March 2017. Here we go. This morning, you did sketch out the contours of such a first jet in the press. That's why I'm asking you a few questions. In addition to the themes I mentioned, you are talking about two additional axes. Could you specify and give examples, if any, of potential projects that could be included in the investment pact? Then, at the level of funding, how do you intend to move forward and what mechanism do you intend to use? Finally, at the level of consultation, which is of course fundamental, between the federal level and the regions, can you clarify how this coordination will be coordinated and what will be the role of bodies composed of experts from the economic world?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u38	Colleague, like you, the government is fully convinced that it is important to deploy a strategic vision on investments, to implement a number of projects, looking at the short, medium and long term. This is the sense of an approach that could start now to develop by 2030, with the desire to identify a number of priority axes. I mentioned three of them regularly in front of you. You know them: mobility, the digital agenda and the energy transition. The discussion continued and, most certainly, the intention would be to extend it to two additional topics. The government will have to decide tomorrow in the Council of Ministers on this matter. That's a first point. [[The second point relates to the issue of governance.]] Indeed, we hope that, alongside the role played by the federal government, the governments of the federated entities and the parliaments - I will come back to that - there will be mobilization within the framework of a governance through which the federative character of the project can be consolidated. Our intention is therefore to seek support, the involvement of economic, academic and social actors, so that they are our partners in the deployment of a strategic vision, in which we rely on the widest possible support, in order to give sustainability and sustainability to this ambition in terms of investment. The third point concerns funding. We have worked a lot and we will have to continue to work to see how, in some cases, through public, sometimes private, sometimes public and private investments, we can give substance to these projects, translate them into reality by strengthening the attractiveness of the country, modernising our infrastructure or supporting the stimulation of a strategy for growth and employment. The fourth point relates to the European debate. We have worked actively with the various ministers concerned to try to move the lines on the ground of the European Commission and the European High Administration, in this case in the context of the recognition of this investment strategy and in the perspective of budgets. In other words, I kept my word. I said that, for the first quarter, the government would take a step forward, to give impetus, to give impetus. We will certainly have the opportunity to come back to this issue. As I have already said, I hope that we can see, perhaps after Easter, in the Conference of Presidents, how Parliament can also be fully mobilised behind a project that I hope to unite for the whole country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u39	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. The federative aspect is indeed fundamental. As I said in my question, today we have the opportunity to show that politicians can, beyond the majority/opposition divides, mobilize around such projects with the actors of society. As far as funding is concerned, I asked you the question in a special way because we, environmentalists, already have some proposals on the subject. For example, we think it would be interesting to mobilise public savings so that citizens can directly invest in this infrastructure. We have a proposal to issue BE Invest bonds or bonds. Citizens could directly invest in the public infrastructure of the future. This seems to us a very interesting lead, which we will have the pleasure of detailing during the debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u40	Mr. Minister, I will start with a quote: "It happened in conjunction with the federal prosecutor's office and "The message is aligned with the federal prosecutor's office'. These are the statements you made in front of the camera in response to the communication in Antwerp by the mayor and the local police after last week's incidents. That is strange, because that is something different from what your colleague, Minister Geens, replied yesterday to questions about this in committee in the Chamber. What did Minister Geen's answer then? I'm moving a few elements forward, which are very important. First of all, the federal prosecutor specifically asked the local police not to communicate, several times. Secondly, the federal prosecutor has emphasised that this is a ban on communication. So that is not just a question, but a ban on the police. Thirdly, the mayor was not advised to communicate and certainly not release any elements about the investigation. Fourthly, on the tenor of the press conference, neither the local nor the federal prosecutor has given his prior agreement on communication. In human terms, the mayor of Antwerp and the local police have simply ignored a ban on the federal prosecutor's office, thereby endangering the security of citizens. After all, Minister, rapid communication in such matters where terrorism is possible is not only irresponsible, but also very dangerous. What is being done at that time? You know that much better than anyone. That's when everything turns out. They're investigating pistes, they're organizing searches, they're looking for possible accomplices. At that point, communicating about what one has is very dangerous. My problem today is that there are two truths: the truth-Noness yesterday and the truth-Jambon for the cameras. That is, of course, a problem, because there can only be one truth and those two truths cannot be reconciled. Minister, in view of the clear position of the federal prosecutor, which has imposed a ban on communication, do you still agree that communication has been made? Do you think that's justified? Secondly, what is your reaction when police officers ignore a federal prosecutor's order and, contrary to the federal prosecutor's order, continue to communicate? What's your attitude towards these police forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u41	Minister, few hours after the so-called Meir incident, the mayor of Antwerp and his chief of police decided to hold a press conference. It was announced at the notice of the cabinet via a Belga alert that talked about a possible foiled attack. At that time, however, the federal prosecutor had already brought the matter to his attention, which resulted in an absolute ban on the Antwerp police to communicate. That's not just a failure diverse. The federal prosecutor underlines that in this way potentially potentially crucial data or information could be shared with the potential accomplices of terrorists. Over the last few days, we were able to read in the press that both the minister's cabinet and the Antwerp Chief of Staff and you thought that the content of the press conference had been fully communicated with the federal prosecutor and that it would have been given permission to communicate. In the meantime, thanks to Minister Geens, we know that the federal prosecutor had imposed a ban on communicating with the Antwerp police and had also advised against communicating administratively. Today, you explicitly state in the press that you do not disagree with Minister Geens. That's why I have the following questions. Firstly, do you acknowledge, as Minister Geens said yesterday to my colleague Monica De Coninck, that at the time of the press conference, the federal court had already taken the matter into consideration, which meant that there was a ban on the Antwerp police and, in fact, also on the administrative authorities, the mayor, as head of the police? Secondly, do you think that at the press conference there would be only administrative communication? Suppose it was a terrorist incident, wouldn't that press conference have given too much information to potential terrorist accomplices?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u42	Minister, I will not repeat what my fellow Members have already said. A week later, we are all lucky that nothing went wrong on the Meir that day and that the terrorist in question or whatever he may be is clever. I must tell you that I was also very surprised and that many mayors here in the Chamber will undoubtedly share my feeling. A few hours after something had happened, what had happened will still have to be seen. A national press conference was already held on the facts. As mayor, I am now looking at the other mayors present here, and we always have to deal with such matters very carefully. That is what we have learned. In addition, a very clear letter from the College of Attorneys General from 1999 states how to deal with the information given as mayor or chief of police at such a time. I come to my specific question, Minister. Why wasn't the letter sent in this case respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this case I think we need to distinguish between two elements. On the one hand, there is the role of the mayor, on the other hand, the role of the chief of police. Those are two different issues. About the mayor, the day before yesterday, in the Committee on the Interior and Minister Geens, I provided clarity in the Committee on Justice. There's been contact between the mayor's services and the parquet. The public prosecutor has indeed stated that they would rather not have had communication about this. But there is the separation of powers. The mayor may decide whether he considers it appropriate or not, in the context of public policy. It's about driving at a fairly high speed, and the military reported a speed between 80 and 100 km/h over the Meir with the intention of knocking down some pedestrians, and then being picked up at the quays. Everyone saw that. That was already the subject of conversation on the social media and the websites. So questions were already asked to the mayor about that. That the mayor also answers those questions, I personally do not see any bones in that. The other element is the role of the Chief Constable. That's where we have a well-known non-discussion. The chief of police says there's been contact with the local parquet and federal parquet and they'd rather not have been communicated about it. The federal prosecutor says it has given a formal ban on communicating. That's two different things. It is clear to me that, if there is a formal ban on the public prosecutor's office, there will be a written trail. That's gotta come up. Then we will conduct the investigation accordingly. In the other case, it's also the Chief Constable, who can judge. Let's take a look at this world-wide issue. What was said at the press conference? I have the written record of what was said at that press conference. Now you have to tell me where they have come anywhere near the judicial investigation. They say, "Around 11:00 a.m., a vehicle was stopped. The DOD's colleagues have notified the police. The vehicle has been intercepted on Saint Michael's Island. The suspect, a man of North African origin, has been arrested. The investigation has been taken over by the federal prosecutor. At the moment, we have increased vigilance in Antwerp. We will confine ourselves to this information for the time being. I can't give you any further explanations, since the judicial investigation is still ongoing. Last week, in the Chamber, I gave the press release, the Belgian announcement of the federal prosecutor's office. There was three times more information in there than in here. So what's the problem? What the hell is the problem? In any case, I would advise you, ladies and gentlemen, to take this matter forward for days and weeks in particular, but please excuse me, because I am going to deal with the management of TERRO level three. I think that's a little more important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u44	Minister, we are learning a lot. Now the issue is reduced to a wells-nothing game with the announcement that if the federal prosecutor had actually issued a ban, it would have done so in writing. Well, one gets a phone at 13.50 p.m. that one would give a press conference and what would one do? Would one then put themselves to his typewriter and send a note to Mr Mayor and the Chief Constable that the press conference should not take place? We are in the 21st century and in such situations there is a call, that is what happened. This is also apparent from the chronological overview. It's easy for you to kill yourself. Minister, I remember very well, after the attacks, when searches and actions were being carried out in Brussels, the police and the police have called on citizens to pay attention to what they are putting on mobile phones and social media, not to show photos and not to say where an action was taking place. Do you know what the citizens have done? They have shown civilism, shown common sense and put a cat on the social media! That signal was given at the time. I can only conclude that this coolness was not there in Antwerp. For his moment in the gloire, the mayor has put the research and the safety of the Antwerpers at risk, so much is clear. [[Objection]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Top has the floor. [[Rumor]] (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u46	He's not here, he's probably giving a press conference. Minister, I hear you conclude that the parquet is apparently amateurs in your eyes. Minister, security is far too important to play political games. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u47	I give the floor here and Mr Top is the only one who has the floor. Mr Top, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u48	In this way, there is a risk that the political profiling of a mayor will provide crucial information to potential accomplices of terrorists. That is unacceptable to us. This does not serve safety. It is true that a mayor must communicate correctly and at the right time. However, communication must be at the service of the citizens, not the mayor's, not his profiling. He can only communicate if he has certainty. That is not the point, Minister, about political games.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u49	Minister, a distinction must indeed be made between the mayor and the chief of police. Actually, it's not a well-being game anymore. I understand that there was indeed a ban, but that this was imposed orally and therefore cannot be traced. If an attorney reports that orally at such a time, it has sufficient value. That's obvious. I think there is a problem. It sets a precedent for other corps and chiefs of police who may be confronted with such a situation. I hope that will not happen and that they will be very careful. As for the mayor, I think you are right, Minister: every mayor determines that for himself, because there are no rules on this matter. The mayor of Antwerp has estimated that, as he had to estimate. However, we must not forget that we are still below threat level 3, and I personally believe that communication at that time is less important than security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the Minister for the Interior is responsible for language legislation. I know that you are not responsible for all aspects of enforcement, but you are responsible for language legislation. We note that the city council of the Flemish municipality of Linkebeek again speaks French. Isn't that the municipality of your coalition partner MR, where Mr Thiéry is in charge? Is there no Community standstill there? Don't you have the impression that the MR is playing with your feet a little bit? The latter is a rhetorical question, just to be clear. As far as I am concerned, Linkebeek's situation is very clear, as the Council of State decided in 2001. The Council of State says that local services should use Dutch in their internal services. I quote from the judgment in the municipality of Linkebeek that, when decisions are taken within the city council, only Dutch may be used. Why is French spoken there now? After the last non-appointment of Mr Thiéry, I saw a tweet pass by Wouter Beke who said: "I have always been confident that the sixth state reform would have shut down the farce of the mayor's carousel. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why speak French now in the city council of Linkebeek? You know that very well, Mr Verherstraeten. It is French because the case will not now be brought before the Dutch-speaking Chamber of the Council of State, but at the General Assembly. As the general meeting has once been devastating for the circular Peeters, I would not be surprised that this general assembly will now allow French to be spoken in certain cases in the city council of a Flemish municipality. It is therefore very important that you, as Minister for the Interior, responsible for language legislation, give a correct interpretation of Article 23 of the Language Administration Act. Do you think the municipality of Linkebeek is a local service within the meaning of Article 23? In other words: should only Dutch be spoken in the city council of Linkebeek? I believe that these are very specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u51	Mr President, Mr Vuye, first of all, I believe that enough statements have already been made about your specific question in the past, by all possible bodies, and that it should also be done to speak Dutch in the city council of a Flemish municipality. Secondly, it is true that it is a federal power to interpret it and that a legislative initiative should be taken for that purpose. That legislative initiative is not in the coalition agreement, the coalition agreement that you negotiated with at the time, and which you were very enthusiastic about. For the rest, today this power is exercised by the Länder. I do not see why we should bring this power to the federal level. You may be of a different opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u52	Minister, as usual when it comes to legal matters, it is approximate miraculous. A law should not be interpreted by law, but by circular letter. I can see that you have very little courage to say about that. In fact, it is very bad that you simply have to scoff and mock, in the sense that I negotiated that coalition agreement, while we both know very well that there is nothing about it. It must be very bad, Mr Jambon, to be in this government. Compare what you said before. In 2005, on the starting cocoquium of a party that is not yours now, you called for this country simply to be cut into two. You took a lot of applause with that at the time. What are you doing? What are you doing now? You must let it happen that Flanders is cut into two and that on the one hand there are municipalities where French is spoken in the city council and on the other normal Flemish municipalities where Dutch is spoken. You can say anything about that, and you can mock it, but you are an accessory to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u53	Mr President, Minister, a major issue recently came to light in Limburg about benefit fraud. I think we were all shocked by that, but not surprised. It would be EUR 18 million a year, and it is now even saying that this has been going on for 15 years. I therefore fear that this is just the tip of the iceberg. What really bothers me most, including in the coverage of that case, is that some roles have been neglected. I am referring in particular to the role of the health insurance fund concerned and the doctors involved. Madam Secretary, I will begin with my questions about the doctors. What is going to happen to the doctors who have apparently issued false certificates, who have been employed throughout that carousel of people who have not even been to our country, in order to further undermine our social security? What's gonna happen to them? How will you avoid this happening more often in the future? I've spoken to you about this before in committee. You once replied to me that in 2014 and 2015 zero doctors had been investigated by the federal control bodies when it came to manifest improper writing, while we all know which doctors too often lend themselves to it in our own region. Madam Minister, as far as sickness funds are concerned, I would like to know which health insurance fund was involved in this matter. How the hell is it that this hasn't surfaced in 15 years? They still have a controlling role today. I don't think they're fulfilling it today. As you know, I have a proposal to remove the counsellors and to place the control function at the RIZIV. However, they have that role today, but they have not fulfilled it. So I would very much like to hear from you what the consequences are for that health insurance fund of the fact that they have allowed that benefit fraud to last for so long? Finally, what will you do about the parameters which, as has once again been proven, are not responsible for the sickness funds as regards the fact that they receive more money per beneficiary they have under them? I'm afraid this has played here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u54	Mr President, Mrs van Peel, thank you for your question. Last week it was indeed announced that the Labour Auditorate discovered a large-scale case of benefit fraud. The D.A.'s in charge of the investigation. This has not yet been completed and we cannot anticipate what measures will have to be taken with whom. My services have, of course, offered to the Public Prosecutor's Office to cooperate fully in the investigation, because this fraud case is very serious and undermines the basis of social security, solidarity and the need to protect only weaker people. The necessary steps must be taken to get to the bottom of this matter. Next Wednesday, consultations are scheduled between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the people of the RIZIV. This would involve three types of fraud, namely residence fraud, fictitious part-time employment and, indeed, false certificates from treating doctors. What the role of some health insurance funds would be in this is still being explored. Until details are known, I strongly believe that the possibility of organising some cases of this fraud is already conflicting with measures taken by me in this government, with the help of the partners. I am thinking of the longer period for getting the reference wage, not only on the last day; a longer waiting period, from six to twelve months, which has already been implemented; the introduction of a medical re-evaluation by RIZIV doctors, which somewhat meets your demand; and the rehabilitation of the treating doctors. We are currently working on a project to call on the misfits and to make them accountable and, if necessary, to sanction the prescription behaviour in the event of long-term illness. I also refer to the work of Mr De Backer, Secretary of State for Combating Fraud. He has also put in place a real reinforcement of his team of social inspectors. There will now be closer cooperation between the social fraud investigation services, the RIZIV and the RVA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u55	Madam Minister, I do know that some steps have been taken, but I doubt that will be enough. I continue to call for the second step to be taken as the first step, namely the withdrawal of controls by the RIZIV and the sickness fund. In addition, I did not hear you reply to the question of what happens to doctors who are manifestally opposed to improper writing. I'm sorry about inappropriate writing. It is about perhaps one or two percent of the doctors' corps, but these doctors not only tarnish their colleagues, they also cost health care a handful of money and they avoid using this money for those who really need it in the future. As far as the sickness fund is concerned, I have learned from a number of sources about which sickness fund it would be. That may not in itself matter, but I hope that an appeal will be made to the responsibility of that sickness fund. We need to think about how we can respond to that health insurance fund. If we cannot do that, then perhaps we should simply remove the control function at the sickness fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u56	Madam Minister, the principle of the fastest adequate aid requires that the nearest MUG be withdrawn. On and around the language border this very often causes confusing and sometimes dangerous conditions. At the end of last year there was a serious incident in Halle, about which I asked you a question. I haven't received an answer yet. Recently, another incident was reported to me in which both paramedics again didn't speak a word of Dutch and the victim didn't speak a word of French. Madam Secretary, language problems can be a question of life or death in such a case. Surely it is totally unacceptable that a good or bad outcome for the victim depends on the interpretation qualities of casual bystanders? It is an old problem which you are well-known and which is also included in the coalition agreement. Last year, following other similar incidents, you mentioned that you do not wish to deal with language problems in a fractioned way, but that you are working together with Minister Jambon on a comprehensive approach to urgent medical care. What's the timing for that plan of action? What policy measures have you already developed? Is there a specific measure requiring bilingualism for the MUG or ambulance services in Brussels and near the language border?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u57	Mrs Pas, you know that the relationship between a health practitioner and the patient is regarded as private in nature. The 1966 Law on the use of languages in administrative matters does not apply. An opinion from the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control stated that the hospital functions recognized by the government in the context of urgent medical care carried out an assignment which exceeded the private relationship with the patient and that, in bilingual areas, staff should therefore be bilingual. However, it is the Länder which are responsible for the standards of recognition and supervision of these hospital functions. In addition, the provincial emergency medical services committees are competent to investigate complaints. A complaint concerning language can therefore always be lodged with them. You say there are numerous complaints. We have checked this for the last five years. There are about five a year in Flemish Brabant, two in Liège and no other in the other provinces. I would also point out that it is not always about Dutch-French, but sometimes also about French-German and vice versa. Nevertheless, it is very important that the treatment can be done in the context of urgent medical care in its own language. However, it is also the case that consideration must be given to sending the right help to the patient very quickly. Therefore, the nearest available means, regardless of the language area from which this means comes, will always be sent by the relief centre on the spot. The plan of action is indeed an in-depth plan for the whole organization of urgent medical assistance. The speed of intervention is important, as is the price for the patient, but also the language spoken must be the language of the people, even if it is a national language. I think you share that view. The plan is at the final stage. We are having the last conversations with the Cabinet and the people on the premises such as the ambulance services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand that urgent medical care covers more than just language issues. I am pleased to hear that your plan of action is at a final stage, but an arrangement in which in foreign-language MUG services at least one person should know the other language does not have to wait so long? You minimize the number of complaints but there is not always a complaint. You didn't mention any complaints from West Flanders. The reason for the questions last year was just incidents in West Flanders. Those are people who are lucky enough to file another complaint. It could be a matter of life or death. So it is vitally important in all the meanings of the word to be met. You have not confirmed whether there will be a language regime with compulsory bilingualism for the emergency services at the language border and in Brussels. I can only urge you to speed up such language arrangements in the emergency services. It is vital that the aid workers and the victims can at least understand each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u59	Mr.Minister, at the end of 2016, you said that we will end the system of career units, that men and women working over 45 years of age will be able to value their pensions. These words were beautiful, but they were just an announcement effect. Indeed, you choose methods of calculation that discriminate the weakest, especially those who started working before 20 years, those who have experienced periods of illness or unemployment. The testimony of each other attests to this. Several thousand workers would lose more than 100 euros a month, which is huge compared to a small pension. Are these figures correct? You have asked to be able to make proposals concerning the problems of the social partners, in particular, on career units, a multi-faceted theme. Apparently, you didn't integrate their request. Do you confirm that the new rules will penalise some pensioners? Why do you act without waiting for the proposals of the Group of Ten? Would it be for budgetary reasons? What is your estimate of impact? Do you intend to delay or pass in force, given the reactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u60	Mr Minister, this is obviously the project that you are going to defend tomorrow in the Council of Ministers. According to the FGTB, this project will involve a reduction in the amount of the pension per 20,000 workers, for people over 45 years of age or over 14,000 days of career. So far, the State considered the best 45 years for calculating the pension. If we follow your project, it is the first 45 years that will be taken into consideration. It would be – you may confirm this – a budget target of EUR 100 million in savings. Excuse my astonishment, Minister! On the one hand, you say you have to work more, on the other, you penalise those who have full careers or exceed them. The loss is between 65 and 113 euros per month, according to FGTB projections. From EUR 1,000 the loss is EUR 65; above EUR 1,250 it is EUR 93; above EUR 1,450 it is EUR 104; but above all, from EUR 833 to EUR 1,041, the lowest pensions, the loss is EUR 113. I see, therefore, that the government's policy encourages us to work longer, harder – thanks to Minister Peeters's unfeasible work project – all of this, to finally get an even lower pension. This is not the first project that reduces the amount of the pension. These include the Pension Bonus, similar periods, study grants, all of which contribute to a reduction in the amount of the pension. Is it true, as the unions claim, that you have refused an impact assessment of this provision? If so, why? Otherwise, how many people are involved, what will be the losses, what budget amounts are we talking about? Our pensions are 48% lower than those paid in France. With this measure, how much will this gap increase? On the show Villa Politica, M. De Croo suggested that you might need to review your measurements. Do you confirm that there is a divergence within the government on this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u61	Mr President, Minister, what was not my surprise when I discovered in the press this morning articles announcing a loss of EUR 113 per month on the pension of 20,000 workers. I still took the trouble to go through the article to the end and to find out a little bit. And I realized that this was a measure that you were only developing. Its objective is to make the career as a whole more coherent with the worker's pension – contrary to what is currently in force. At present, an equivalent period at the end of a career allows for the creation of additional pension rights, thus beyond the full career. Minister, when I read these articles, I make two observations. First of all, this is a measure under development, which is in line with a broader logic, but which is an essential part of the overall pension reform that you are working on. Secondly, this provision fully implements the government agreement. In addition, it reflects a recommendation made in the report of the Committee on Pension Reforms 2020-2040, headed by Mr Vandenbroucke, which stated: "A stronger link is needed between actual work benefit and the amount of the pension". If I understand correctly, you are implementing this recommendation, and I welcome it, because it is about the survival of our system. Moreover, if I am not mistaken, this is a step forward in relation to the point pension that we are also talking about. Finally, FGTB's Flemish counterpart reacted positively to this measure. This confirms, once again, that you are not preparing this reform alone in your area, since you are approaching it with the social partners. Minister, my question will be simple: can you supplement the information given by the press this morning?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u62	Mr President, Minister, we are familiar with you, but this morning I really choked on my coffee. You were the minister who would solve our ageing costs. You were the minister who would encourage people to work longer. All you do is pay people less and less pensions over and over again. Each time, you take measures to reduce people's pensions. You shake your head in denial. I will list three of your measures. First of all, you and your government have abolished the pension bonus that will make people who work longer less. Less than a month ago, I was here to question you about the runways. Those runways were created to encourage people to work longer, but you have taken measures to reduce the pensions of people working on runways. Now you take a measure whereby one in five people who retire in the future will receive an average of EUR 100 less pension. Mr. Secretary, I really don't understand it anymore. What do you and your government really have against pensioners? Any action taken by this government is to the detriment of pensioners. We have had an index jump, but the compensation for pensioners has not been paid. We have had a tax shift, with different compensatory measures for the general population, but they have not been applied to pensioners. The electricity bill was increased, and that is certainly to the detriment of pensioners, because pensioners stay home longer. Minister, I have two questions for you. If you want people to work longer, why not re-enter the pension bonus? After all, the pension bonus was an incentive to make people work longer. As Minister for Pensions, it seems that every time you are in charge of getting the budget in order. Will the measure you announced today also raise 120 million in 2022, as mentioned in the newspapers? Mr President, allow me to address Mrs de Coster for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u63	I'll give you five seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u64	Mrs de Coster, if you quote from the report, you must do the right thing. The measure announced by the Minister abolishes the periods treated as such. The report states as one of the starting points that the periods treated must be maintained. Read the report in full, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u65	Mr President, Minister, my question is also about the future regulation on the unity of career. Many people have already asked for this arrangement. They say that if they work longer than 45 years, they will not be rewarded for it. In this sense, it was said to go to a new scheme where people working for more than 45 years can also be effectively included in their pensions. You provided that this arrangement would start on 1 January next year. However, Minister, there are concerns when we look at the concrete effects this system could have. I take as an example someone who starts working at 18 years and works until he is 65, that is 47 years old, and who has been ill in the last two years. Today it takes into account those two years in which he is ill and looks at his best years to grant his pension. If we take the same person, but if he becomes 63 after 1 January 2018, he will have a lower pension, despite the fact that he has actually worked in the same way as he did today. That is because you have not counted in the new scheme for the last two years and those first two years, in which he earned less, well, while in the past just the best years, the most profitable years of those 45 years were taken. This means that the same person will receive less pension in the future, because they will receive that substitution. I want to take another example. In the same career one had 15 years of illness, but before he was 63, before he had his full career, and the other person was ill for two years at the end of his career. Then the one who has been ill for 15 years will receive a higher pension than the other. However, neither can do about it. That is why we are concerned about the consequences. Those consequences are going to be those people who start working early, want to expand their careers to their 65s, want to have a longer career, who listen to the government who says that longer working is important, but who would be the victims of this system. They themselves and widows or widowers of those same persons, who are ill at the end of their career and die, are faced with a survivor's pension that will be lower in the future than it is today. Minister, do you confirm the disadvantages raised in this system? Is this right? How many people are we talking about? Are you willing to find a solution to this anomaly, where tomorrow people will have less for the same career as today, especially for those who would be affected by their legitimate expectations on 1 January 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questions raised refer to a measure forming part of the government agreement, the modalities of which were defined in the October 2016 budget conclave. It concerns the abolition from 1 January 2018 of the restriction to the unit of career for all workers who continue their professional activity after the reference career. It is therefore a very positive measure which aims to encourage the continuation of professional activity beyond the 14,040 days or 45 years of career necessary to have a full career. All pre-retirement workdays will now be included in the pension calculation. For example, the person who has worked 47 years will be entitled to a pension calculated on the basis of 47/45th and not on the basis of 45/45th, as is the case today. The pension will therefore be increased. This can represent a very significant pension gain of up to €706 per additional year over and above the reference career. I can tell you that a number of unions have even openly welcomed this positive measure. On the other hand, the days for which the worker is covered by a social security benefit no longer allow him to build up additional pension rights, since he already has a full career. In that case, he is usually entitled to take up his pension. One might wonder why additional entitlements would be granted on the basis of social security allowances which do not give rise to the payment of social contributions, even when the person is of age to take up his pension. It should also be pointed out that even when people choose to remain dependent on social security after 45 years of career, this does not mean that, automatically, they will benefit from a lower pension, far from it. Indeed, persons who qualify for a minimum pension after a full career will retain this right to the minimum pension in full, since they will have 45 years of career. We will also upgrade the minimum pension for people with a full career. Finally, it should be stressed that, at the same time as this measure, pensions will be increased for workers who have exercised a heavy occupation. This is in line with the government's desire to strengthen the insurability of our pension system. We want to strengthen the link between work and the amount of pension. As foreseen by the Pension Reform Commission, effective work needs to be made more valuable. Mrs. de Coster said so. All those who work longer will indeed be entitled to a higher pension. That's why we're going to upgrade these pensions. On the other hand, I do not think there is any reason to grant automatically and generally additional rights to those who decide, not to be ill or to be unemployed, to remain in charge of social security, even though they already have a full career which allows them to take up their pension. That is the philosophy of reform. Of course, it is not yet definitively adopted. There is still a possible field of negotiation. But the general principle is that who works more is entitled to a higher pension. That is an essential principle of the reform that we are undertaking within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u67	Minister, your answers are always the same. No one can count, but you don't give figures to the questions asked. This reform of the career unit could indeed be interesting if it increased the purchasing power of future pensioners. But you see it in a budgetary logic and with contempt for the social partners who ask you to stop all these sausage reforms and take a little step backwards, to delay in order to have a global view of the effect on the citizens. And the effects are heavy on citizens who always have to pay more and their purchasing power is always reduced, whether they are citizens, future pensioners or current pensioners. Minister, I thought there was still room for negotiation. That means that tomorrow you will put your reforms and projects on the agenda. I consider that to be a commitment on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u68	Minister, you finally confirmed two things. You confirmed that the FGTB's information was true: there are people who are going to lose pension because of your measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u69	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u70	Yes, you did! Secondly, you deny the negative impact on these people, denounced by the trade unions. You didn't specify the negative impact these 20,000 people were going to have. You didn't give it. No impact. Here, you take a measure against pensioners, and you don't even want to calculate the impact for people who are going to go through these measures. I find it really intolerable, or you have things to hide. Minister, I finally wonder what the pensioners did to you? Isn't there a right in your society project to be old? Should an old man necessarily fall below the poverty line? Is this your conception of society? I feel that way. You and your N-VA friends are detriguing social security on the basis of a lie that pensions will no longer be payable in the future and that we must reduce them. But that's not true, minister. According to a 2015 European Commission report, pensions now account for 11.3% of GDP; by 2060 they will account for 11.2% of GDP. The share of GDP in pensions therefore does not increase. They are completely payable. The real stake of pensions in Belgium, Minister, is to increase them. Pensions are already so much lower than in neighbouring countries. In terms of competitiveness, we are looking at what is happening in neighbouring countries; but in terms of pensions, when we are lower than everyone else, we are not looking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u71	Minister, I don't hear the same thing as Mr. Van Hees. On the contrary, you reassure me in more than one way. What I'm hearing is that you're going to revalue the pensions, and especially the minimum pensions. You're valuing the link between the actual career time and the amount of the pension. That seems quite normal to me. If I understand correctly, you have confirmed that no one will lose their pension rights over a full career, but that the figures mentioned this morning concerned a possible loss of earnings compared to an optimal situation, in which up to 706 additional annual euros could be earned per year of additional work. This is not at all the same as a loss of earnings or a reduction in pension. I also understand that the situation can evolve according to the decisions of the various bodies responsible for carrying out this reform. Minister, I would still like to draw your attention. I would like you to remain careful and careful so that the system remains fair and equitable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u72	Do you have any doubts, ma'am?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u73	Let Mrs. De Coster speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u74	I have no doubt. I'm warning the minister. I think we need to be careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u75	Minister, I am very sorry to say that your pension reform actually consists of three words: less, less, and even less.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. But people do not know in advance whether they will be ill or not. I am actually counting on you, Minister, to ensure that those who want to stay on for longer can do so effectively without losing it compared to today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our economy is gradually improving, and we are all delighted with that. The catering industry also climbs out of the valley. This has to do with the measures taken by this and the previous government in this area, such as the VAT reduction, the RSZ discount, the extra overtime gross and net and student work in hours rather than in days. That is positive and the result is there. The number of fixed jobs in the catering industry is increasing and the number of catering establishments is increasing, especially as regards the restaurants. We also see that with the flexi jobs there are many more people at work, that people can earn extra money from the catering industry. That is a good thing. Mr Minister, an agreement has also been made with the catering industry to whitewash the undeclared work and that through the system of white checkouts. However, I deeply regret the following problem. We see that in Flanders 97% of the catering stores have installed a white cash register. That is, as the good Fleming is known, a lot. In the other parts of the country this is not the case and there is a kind of red checkout. In Wallonia, only 70% of catering is in order, in Brussels only 60%. My group and I do not think that is acceptable. The laws must be the same for all Belgians in this country, especially when it comes to catering. Think of a catering business which is located in Flemish Brabant or West Flanders at the language border and which must compete against the unfair competition of the things that do not have a white cash register. My questions are very simple. Firstly, how do you explain the differences between the regions? Secondly, what are you doing to create a level playing field with this system? Thirdly, will there be a level playing field?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u78	Mr Van Quickenborne, at the moment there are 18 000 operations in our country that have the famous white register, the registered cash register system. Since July 2016, checks have been carried out throughout the territory. Those controls are targeted. I mean that they are based on a preliminary analysis of the figures. For example, we have the 2014-2015 VAT return. Of course, we also take into account the threshold of EUR 25 000. On the basis of these analyses it appears that roughly 21 000 operations in our country should have the white cash register, the GKS system. So there's a difference. So far we have carried out 3 490 checks. Within the framework and the context that has just been outlined, I can once again take very precise account of the new checks carried out in the coming weeks, taking into account, of course, the same previous selection criteria, which have just been briefly explained. Following the checks carried out, a total of 2 445 infringements were detected. We can divide them regionally: 1 098 in Wallonia, 753 in Flanders and 594 in Brussels. The controls thus appear to be effective at 70%, which, given the new character of the whole, is not so bad. The controls, I believe, are necessary to achieve the balance, the level playing field, and the other things you rightly referred to, but they are also important with regard to the important accompanying measures, in particular flexi-jobs and cheaper overtime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u79	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for carrying out effective targeted controls and for not organising a witch hunt, but for carrying out checks on those matters that need to be checked. It is also important that you focus those measures and controls on areas where there are significantly less white checkouts in the coming months. That is a question of justice. I am also pleased to note that the controls that have been carried out have ensured that there is much more white mass in the catering industry than in the past, in particular more than EUR 109 million extra. This shows that the measures which the current government has dared to take have an effect with a good balance between flexibility and respect for legislation. That is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u80	Before I ask my question, Minister, I wish you, on behalf of the whole group, a heartfelt congratulations on your 50th birthday. [[Applause]] Mr President, Minister, the military have been a familiar image in our streets for two years. Last week they assisted the Antwerp police in signaling a mad driver on the Meir. Yet apparently not everyone is convinced of more greenery on the street. This week, the Christian union was very keen on the use of the military in the streets and the corresponding personnel policy. According to the ACV, our soldiers are increasingly burdened by the security mission and there is still little balance between their work and leisure time. According to them, the remuneration policy is outdated, there are far too few young soldiers and they have absolutely no room for any social life with their friends and family. In addition, some of them seem to regard the security mission as monotonous, especially when compared to missions abroad. The union was very keen in that they said that discontent is increasing so that a number of soldiers are so tired that they want to resign. Some would have already resigned from you, but you would have refused because they have not been employed long enough or have not yet completed their three-year so-called return period. You are accused by the ACV of forced labour and exploitation. I'm not making up these words, they were literally in their newsletter. These are very bold statements by a trade union, especially when we know that we are still living with terrorist level 3 today and that we are calling for additional efforts from all our security services. Minister, what is your response to the accusations of the ACV? How do you evaluate the security mission in our streets and the corresponding personnel policy? What measures have you taken to better frame the military? What measures are still in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u81	Mr President, Mrs Hufkens, first of all thank you for your congratulations on 30 March 2017. We have been in this country for a long time with terror level 3. This means that an attack remains perfectly possible. We all know that Mr Jambon has already taken a lot of measures to increase police capacity. However, this is not for tomorrow because a number of people need to be trained so that they can be used effectively. As long as it takes, Defense will provide support to the police. I have indeed taken note of an attack by the ACV this week. I've been going over their allegations. Internally, we constantly try to keep our finger on the pulse for the satisfaction and involvement of our soldiers deployed on the streets. People who are not feeling well are not going to make a good contribution in the end either. As far as the stakes are concerned, we have taken a great deal of action. Together with the other security services, we have reduced the deployment of our military to 60% of the original deployment, while we can continue to guarantee 100 % quality. This means that fewer people must be employed or that we can divide the burden among many more people. This special task for Defense requires a lot of our people. I do not deny that we are currently asking someone from the land component, which is operational, for 140 days a year to be deployed as part of the Vigilant Guardian operation in support of the police. In addition, we also want to keep our military up-to-date for a possible deployment abroad. This also takes another 22 days. This is, of course, the case, as laid down by law in the military statute. They are being reimbursed, and I think that compensation is justified. In addition, we have worked on relaxation and reception facilities, and on the quality of the food they receive. We have also changed the content of their tasks so that there will be more variety in their assignments. In short, if we can make our planning fully up-to-date, I believe that we can continue with this. I can also assure you that, in addition to the complainants, a large majority of the people in the defence sector are proud of what they can do for their own country. They show today that they have an effective added value for our security in our own country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. As you pointed out, according to the security services' analysis, there is still a level three terrorist threat. So we can certainly still use the support of the National Defence Service to our police forces. Moreover, the support of the military is seen as positive by the population: 72% of Belgians feel safer now that the soldiers are on the streets. That's not unimportant. As you pointed out and contrary to what the ACV reported, there are many boys and girls on the street who consider this operation to be effective and necessary. We certainly cannot thank the military enough. As you said, we are asking for an extra effort from those military forces, and it is the job of the union to point out the sighs, but it would be a credit to the union to point out the positive aspects once in a while and not just to take part in the blackmailing of all the soldiers who throw their lives into battle every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u83	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow will be a very sad anniversary. Two years ago, Minister Galant announced the temporary suspension of the Thalys Wallon. It had identified technical problems and the duration of their repair. Two years have passed, technical problems should be solved. Wallonia should once again benefit from this service, which enables its economic, cultural development, and which is also an ecological response to the problem of congestion in our big cities. However, no solution is proposed. I called the SNCB in relation to the transport plan: not a line on the Thalys Wallon while it is provided for in the management contract. Since the Flemish Thalys Ostend-Brussels, called the ghost train, had to be abolished in compensation, the Thalys Wallon was abolished. The Charleroi/Namur/Mons direct connection to Paris has been stopped. Liège is still connected to Paris, with the Paris-Liège-Dortmund line. Today, three hours are needed to reach Paris de Charleroi by train, while it takes much less to travel Antwerp-Paris. Wallonia deserves a fast train. The government committed itself to this two years ago through Mrs. Galant. Minister, do you maintain that this suspension is temporary or do you announce today that there will be no more Thalys Wallon? Are you proposing an ecological alternative to the links that must unite Wallonia very strongly in Paris?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u84	Mr President, first of all I would like to reassure the Liegeians that the TGV always passes through Liège many times every day. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that since the beginning of this year, you and one of your colleagues have asked me several times on the same subject. I therefore ask you to pay particular attention to my answer this time. The suspension of the Thalys Wallon was decided for security reasons. As I read in the press, the company THI would apparently have explained it to you with technical arguments. A TGV service to Namur is no longer technically possible since December 2016 since the TGV hardware tricurrent network is not equipped with the ETCS system deployed by Infrabel on the line. I recall once again that Thalys has become, since 1 April 2016, a private railway company that decides its own offer. The SNCB does not have a high-speed train. Renting an adequate system would now cost the federal state and taxpayers roughly €7 million a year. With its 2017 transportation plan, SNCB is increasing its supply by 5% compared to the previous federal transportation plan. This is proof that the savings requested at the beginning of the legislature did not penalise the development of supply. In the future, if the Walloon government wants to make Thalys Wallon its top priority, I see no problem. But choices must be made and this will certainly have an impact on domestic service supply in the Walloon Region. However, I would like to point out that it is not because the Walloon Region makes requests that they respond to a need as important as it thinks it is. I would also like to reiterate that my priority is to find solutions for mobility, in consultation with the representative committees of users. I refer you to their opinion on the inner network of Thalys Wallon. Finally, concerned about the links between our country, therefore Wallonia, and the neighbouring countries, listening to the citizens who are asking for a railway solution to connect Paris from Namur, Charleroi and the other cities, I asked SNCB to study various options of serving from the Walloon cities to Paris, namely Namur-Charleroi-Erquelinnes-Maubuge-Paris and Namur-Charleroi-Mons-Quévy-Aulnois-Paris. I look forward to the analyses with the technical possibilities and the costs that these links could represent. I refer you to the Committee on Infrastructure, where you can question me as soon as the technical report has arrived.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u85	Mr Minister, you are right about one thing: with my colleague Eric Thiébaut, we are following the Thalys Walloon with great interest and we are calling on you. You're telling us Thalys is a private company. Who are the shareholders? SNCF and SNCB! You are directly concerned! Don't say, "It's them, it's not us!" It's you! We learn that from April 29th to May 1st, the TGV will run on the Walloon dorsal. Due to the work at the Nord-Midi junction, they will return to the route. But you're telling us that it's impossible. I learn that from April 29th to May 1st, it will be done! Finally, you say that the federal government is now paying the losses for the train from Brussels to Antwerp, from Antwerp to Rotterdam and from Rotterdam to Amsterdam. What we pay for Flanders, we also have to pay for Wallonia!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u86	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u88	Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that the draft law before us amends the law of 10 April 2014 on a register of legal experts and translators. In particular, the aim was to improve the quality of both experts and translators, both in recruitment and in the performance of their duties through control. That is why an acceptance committee was included in the draft and that the criteria of deontology and training were put forward strongly. In addition, anomalies were corrected and a provisional register was introduced. The text was discussed at first reading on 31 January and 22 February 2017, after which, as is currently customary in committee, a second reading, which has its value, was followed. I thank the services for the legislative note. Indeed, such notes are always very educational for us and tend to give rise to a number of changes. This has happened again and amendments were made at second reading on 14 March 2017. The discussion took place with the active participation of members of all political groups, especially Mrs Özen, whom I do not see at the moment, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mr Brotcorne, Mrs Lambrecht, Mrs Van Cauter and myself. It dealt with the same theme: quality, acceptance committee, the royal decrees and the amounts to be requested. The discussion was animated, but mostly involved, for which I thank everyone. If I may, on behalf of my group, I would like to express a few reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u89	That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u90	Minister, the previous Minister of Justice has waited a long time to publish the original bill, which has become law. You didn't do that. You took care of the publication immediately. You have even taken the leap forward, by announcing that you will start a provisional register in order to register the experts and translators/interpreters for the sake of good quality and, as we all consider important, for the sake of neutrality and independence, criteria to be met by both experts and translators. I would like to stress that the register must also be a very evolutionary instrument, which will be constantly updated and in which the famous acceptance committee will play an important role. We are all particularly curious about the concrete implementing decisions, and I suspect that my fellow Members will certainly come back to that. You admitted during the discussion that the register may not be entirely perfect, but that we are at least taking steps forward. That is what we are convinced of. There is one more point, Minister. There is some concern in the sector about the contribution to the register. It is feared that this will create a further threshold for registration. We hope that if such a contribution is requested, it will not be too high and can be compensated by direct and rapid payment of experts and translators. Then they will probably have less problems with that too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u91	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we in the committee have abstained from this draft law and will do so today. There are undoubtedly some positive points in the draft. First of all, we note that the draft makes a clear commitment to the maximum quality of the legal experts and translators and interpreters through a number of quality conditions, quality control and continuous training. There is, of course, a price for this, Minister. Correct and timely payment is really necessary, as my predecessor said, if we want to have high-quality experts, translators and interpreters in court cases. Allow me, Minister, to point out that there have been many problems in the past in terms of the speed with which payments were made. We hope that these problems will disappear in the future. Secondly, when I make a cross-section of the written opinions submitted and of the discussions in the Committee on Justice, how else can it be otherwise that the need for independence of the experts emerge? The design hopes to guarantee this by working out a deontological code by the King. That code will have to include at least the principles of independence and impartiality. Thirdly, reference is also made to the recently amended Article 972 of the Civil Code, according to which incompatibility or non-independence on the part of an expert must be reported by that person himself, so that the judge can appoint another expert in that case. He doesn't have to appoint it, and we regret that. Allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to express some reservations about the workability of the provision and the associated code of deontology. The question is whether this method will effectively put an end to the problems of the independence of insurance companies' experts when assessing physical damage, problems that are pointed out to us from different angles. In our opinion, there is and remains a risk of conflict of interest when a judicial expert can also represent an insurance company. We are not convinced that what is now before us will solve this problem. Fourthly, I would also like to argue that the costs should not be increased, Minister. The previous speaker also expressed this concern. We must ensure that justice remains accessible and affordable, including for those who are indirectly involved. Justice must not entail more and more costs. We will keep your promise, Minister, to give us a good evaluation of what is ahead in one to two years' time. We hope that we will have more certainty than we do at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the reporter has already said, we have discussed this draft very thoroughly in committee and as usual in our committee, even at second reading. Another habit is that we listen to expertise and advice. We also received some 35 opinions from various quarters, which were very interesting in the discussion. I am not going to repeat everything that was said in committee. You can read that in the report. However, I would like to begin with a testimony from a victim. Why is this law so important? Why does this bother some people? Many people have had a nasty experience after being the victim of an accident, an accident at work, a road accident or whatever. They have the impression that they were treated unfairly when an expert was appointed. They have the impression that the cost of damage, the scale-up of their disability, is on the low side. A few years ago there was some commotion about this following a broadcast by Panorama, with poignant examples. One of these examples was Agnes, a widow, mother of a son, who worked for 20 years as a receptionist in several hotels. Five years ago on the way home, the bus was hit by a passenger car. She fell on a steel pole in the bus, thundered on the ground, felt how someone landed on her. She was taken to the emergency room. It turned out her elbow was broken, but her clavicle and hip were also wrong. There were some vertebrae severely damaged, some cracked. She had to undergo three procedures. Work was no longer possible. Because certain nerves were severed, she also had paralysis symptoms on arms and legs and can no longer write properly. Her employer had the same insurer, because it was, of course, an accident at work, as De Lijn. The insurance doctor proposed to grant 0 % permanent invalidity. The court expert came to 5 %. She still can't work today. She says that it is almost always the same doctors who laugh away medical problems, and then write a report in favour of the insurance companies. This impression lives on people who were victims of an accident with permanent injuries: they feel that their file is not being treated correctly. They must continue for another twenty or thirty years in their lives, but they are no longer able to work. They did not receive any proper remuneration for this. Minister, that is the challenge of this law. We've had the law of 2014. Changes were made by potpourri IV and also now. These are steps forward, but I think, as I said in committee, that we still need to take steps forward. After all, several problems remain. For example, I mention the five-year transitional period, during which experts on the lists today can still work. It is not always clear which parties the experts have ever worked for. We have argued in favour of increasing transparency in this area by including in the register the insurance company for which the expert works or has worked. We have discussed this for a long time. We have tabled amendments in this respect, but the majority did not follow us and we find that very regrettable. However, we do believe that it is a necessary step to achieve much better transparency. We must be assured that the appointed experts can work in all objectivity and neutrality. Many things also need to be settled in a royal decree. We have received many advice and many useful suggestions to make the system even better. I hope that several of these opinions will be followed in writing those royal decisions and certainly in writing the deontological code. This deontological code will be adopted by royal decree, but at present we have no idea. Then there is the important role of the acceptance committee. The acceptance committee plays an important role in accepting or not accepting an expert, so that he is included in the list or in the register. In addition, the acceptance committee also has a task if there are complaints, for example by formulating a proposal for deletion or suspension, so that experts who do not comply with the deontological code, which does not work correctly, can be removed from the register. In committee, I have already called for it to be absolutely essential for the acceptance committee to function properly and be sufficiently manned. Anyone who lodges a complaint must also feel that his or her complaint is being taken seriously. People must feel that they can go to the acceptance committee, that their complaint is being examined with word and reply. That reply is not quite there yet. We have also discussed this. There is no opportunity to reply to the complainant. You are referring to the non-existent Greek calendar. You say that everything related to deontology and disciplinary procedures needs to be revised. The complainant does not play an active role in this, nor is he actively informed. We could've taken care of it by now. Maybe we could have inspired ourselves on that for other texts about discipline. Of course, we could have done the same. Now we have to wait until that big text arrives. The acceptance committee plays an essential role. We also discussed the composition. We have to be careful that there are not too many experts in it because it gives the impression that the experts know each other and have to judge whether or not they will work and whether they don't know each other too well and cover each other. As a counter-amendment to an amendment I tabled myself, you suggested that the law should clearly state that the experts should never be in the majority in that acceptance committee. These are a lot of elements that can make it a success, but there are also a lot of questions that can ensure that it does not. Minister, I hope that we will do everything we can to ensure that you, from the government and from Parliament, take further steps and make them a success story and that people such as Agnes and many others who feel they have been treated unjustly have to live with it and nowhere to go with their complaint. After all, that's the feeling that's alive. Finally, I would like to make a comment on this compensation, which I welcome, and which my fellow Members are now joining. You have even said more than 10 times that it will not be more than EUR 100. I made you a proposal, but I'm afraid you didn't agree to it. If we can ensure that all invoices from experts and translators are paid within two to three months at the latest, then I think they will all be willing to pay just under EUR 100. However, if they themselves have to wait months or years to pay the invoices for the services they have provided in the public interest, to assist the judges and to help them find the right to seek and find the truth, they will not be prepared to do so. We must respect them and ensure that they are paid properly and correctly, but also in good time. As long as that is not the case, it is slightly less than 100 euros very acidic. I regret that these amendments have not been accepted. Mrs Becq, you could have supported them. You didn't, but I seem to have been able to convince you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u93	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u94	You shouldn't listen to your minister too much. You sometimes have to take your own initiatives and not let your Minister take you on your own. Maybe he'll listen to you more than I do, so maybe we missed a chance. In any case, Minister, I hope that you will make this commitment. It is very important for the experts that they are treated and paid correctly. We need them. Above all, we need good experts on the ground. We must avoid the good experts dropping out and that only those who do not have a job and who only do expertise because they are no longer working will still work for the Justice Department. We need good experts, for the sake of justice. Those were the most important comments I would like to make. Our general judgment is that it is a step forward, but we are not yet there. That is why we will abstain, as in committee. However, we will continue to follow the dossier very closely. It is certainly also very important that we regularly evaluate the law, the CABs, the implementing decisions, the deontological code and so on, because we will have to take further steps in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u95	Minister, the organisation of a national register of experts, interpreters, translators and translators is a very interesting step forward. Those who have had the opportunity to attend courthouses have realized that on too many occasions, when it comes to appointing an expert, the magistrate uses his personal knowledge of particular situations or even the habits of a court, but this sometimes misses the opportunity to designate the right person for the right subject to be dealt with. In this, centralizing registrations is an interesting operation. Unfortunately, Minister, the hearings that our committee used have shown that we may have missed a slightly more ambitious objective. I heard Mrs Becq say that this was a first step and that things should probably be fine-tuned. I hear Mr. Van Hecke's talking about an evaluation of the law in the long run. I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to three issues. The latter will ensure that, even if the original intention was laudable, the cdH group will abstain at the time of the vote. The first element is that important, and sometimes very sophisticated, training courses are taken into account, which experts are called upon to follow. When I speak of experts, I am thinking of all the categories covered by the text that is under consideration this afternoon. But to want to be too sharp and too demanding in terms of diplomas, one forgets somewhat that experience sometimes also acquires on the ground and that these experiences are sometimes as convincing, if not more so, than recognized diplomas or trainings. In the text proposed to us, this element is not sufficiently taken into account. My second point concerns potential conflicts of interest, and indeed the urgent and indispensable need to ensure impartiality. Even in court, minister, you know that the appearance of impartiality matters. I think we have failed in committee, despite the heated debate, to force the experts who register to indicate the insurance companies for which they work. It makes sense for the appointing magistrate and the parties to be subject to their expertise to know everything about the CV and the organizations for which the designated experts work. It is not only to prevent a designated expert from working for an insurance company that may be involved in a trial in question. This can go further. For example, for a record relating to the assessment of permanent incapacity injury as a result of an accident at work or a traffic accident, an expert may be appointed who is not the expert of one of the insurance companies in the cause, but it will nevertheless remain that the designated expert will be used to working with the insurance companies. However, we may need experts not to be linked to any insurance company in order to assess situations in an innovative way and to change jurisprudence. Unfortunately, this is not guaranteed in your text. Finally, this text contains many references to a royal decree. We are therefore not fully aware of the parameters and practical application of this text, particularly with regard to the composition and functioning of the approval committees. It's not nothing! We have no information on this. We are also told that codes of ethics will be drafted, but we do not know anything about their content. Irrespective of the cost of registering experts, these are three elements, Minister, for which there are still areas of shadow. If we appreciate your willingness to create this register of experts, we will therefore not be able to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u96	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know – in any case those who attend courts and tribunals, the courts – that the relations between experts and the world of justice, between experts and those who must be in court, are sometimes particularly delicate and difficult. Experts ask to be included in the list of experts in courts and tribunals. They are appointed by the courts of first instance, trade or labour and, as they do not earn enough money, it is entirely logical for some to continue to work for insurance companies, the most frequent case, or for public or para-public bodies, such as INAMI or mutual societies. This simply creates a problem of independence. The recriminations that go back to the actors of the justice system (magistrates, lawyers) but above all to the people who have to pass into the hands of the experts, concern the independence that can be achieved at the level of the experts and, moreover, the exorbitant cost at times that expertise can represent. Especially since we are not very specialist and when it comes to the problem of merula in a building or problems of accidents which have physical consequences, we also like to be surrounded by our own expert. Why? Because the independence of the expert is relatively frequently called into question. He's a fundamental player in justice. He's an independent actor of justice. Of course, as the magistrate is widely regarded, impartiality must therefore take precedence. It could have been said, Mr Minister, that when this directive was transposed, we were going to try to solve as many problems as possible, so that we were going to move towards a professional system, a kind of expert certification. Unfortunately, I have the impression that this is a missed opportunity. However, I do not doubt for a second that you have tried to do well and that you have wanted to move forward - I recognize this - in certain matters. I recall that I attended some of the benches of this Parliament between 2003 and 2007 that we were already talking about at the time of certification as an expert. Between 2003 and 2007, the Minister of Justice was not the same, but you were the opposite. It was Mrs. Onkelinx. In fact, I had tabled a bill on the matter at the time and work had begun. It might have been possible, by doing some excavations and going to the archives of parliament, to try to find some documents that had already been produced at the time, as well as many of the opinions of the various bodies bringing together the experts and which almost all requested that a certification system be put in place. It is true that, in the course of the discussion of this draft, we have received a number of opinions, some of which are certainly quite late. However, I would like to point out that the ABEX, which is still the Belgian Association of Experts, only confirms what it had already said between 2003 and 2007, namely that it wishes to have lists of experts, although they include those certified by professional associations of experts recognised by the King. Why? Because certification provides a guarantee of quality at the level of the required qualifications and merits as well as at the level of the trainings put in place. I believe that you wanted to bring control over the quality of experts and interpreters, better prevention of conflicts of interest. Unfortunately, in our view, this objective is not fully achieved, because the real procedures for controlling these risks have not been put in place. No one can ignore the problems concerning the independence of experts. I spoke earlier about the health care oversight bodies. The most obvious is at the level of experts and insurance companies. How many times does an expert recognized by the courts and tribunals, called by the courts in the context of the assessment of damage to a road accident, work at the same time for the same insurance company as the one called to intervene in compensation for damage? This was also pointed out by the Supreme Council of Justice, when it had examined the problem through the audit carried out on the subject. Everyone knows that this kind of situation cannot happen. As a result of the existence of a register of experts to carry out judicial missions, it would not have been difficult, if one did not want to fall into the certification situation, to provide for a process of inclusion of information to detect the risks of bias. In fact, beyond the people who will pass into the expert's hands, the magistrate must also be aware. You know that as I do, all this can change. An expert, once placed on the lists, may subsequently be approached by an insurance company or mutual fund and become an expert. It is therefore important that the magistrate be informed before making such a designation. You say that this will represent too large and too complex a workload, while the experts themselves have proposed to develop these disclosures. An X expert often works with such an insurance company. You preferred to leave this recommendation unanswered. This was probably one of the simplest solutions to be put in place since these lists of experts already exist. That would have made it possible, in any case, for you to give me the expression, to move the Schmilblick forward. Similarly, where is the declaration of commitment to respect the code of ethics, which does not yet exist, since it will then have to be clarified? What will it contain? Will it be sufficient to guarantee the independence of those concerned? In my view, there must be a relationship of trust between the victim, real or presumed, and justice. It cannot be established whether the procedure for appointing the expert does not identify a risk of bias. However, we must note that the present project has few mechanisms to monitor the independence of judicial experts. Another aspect of the project is highlighted. This is the contribution of interpreters and experts. Opinions have been given to you, in particular those of the sworn translators and interpreters. We know, from the beginning of the legislature, or even a little before, that this is a burning problem, and even a shouting one. I don't know, minister, if your services systematically pull the alarm bell and if you inform yourself. But I know you're paying attention to this kind of problem. Do you know that police officers are themselves responsible for translating procedural documents when they receive people who come to file complaints? Or they ask them to be accompanied by a relative, such as a family member, to ensure the translation of their statement. This, of course, may pose difficulties in terms of conflict of interest, ethics and professional secrecy – even though I know it will be undermined. If there are sworn translators-interpreters, you have to go through them. It is not the role of a police officer to ask a complainant to be accompanied by his or her husband, wife or other family member. The interpreters find this situation indecent. In addition, given the meagre fees paid to them, they qualify this contribution, which will be applied for tomorrow as purely and simply indecent. In my view, we could have put, if not all, at least a large part of these state costs. With justice to be done, it seemed to me quite appropriate and indispensable for the State to find a solution in that regard. Mr. Minister of Justice, I recognize that some elements are progress. That is why we will not vote against your bill. But this is a missed opportunity. Things are still imperfect. We think you haven't volunteered enough. That is why our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft has been the subject of a wide-ranging debate in committee and has become the tradition of two readings. We have done a good job in this area. It is a draft which was indeed proposed at the time by Mr Becq and which is being implemented today. Colleagues, I know that the payments of our court fees, especially of the interpreters and the court experts, are still not going well, but they are far better than they were when I took office. I believe that the professions recognize this as well. In that sense, I hope that the contribution they are asked to make will be bearable. As far as their independence is concerned, Mrs Lambrecht, we have adopted a provision in potpourri IV which obliges the court to examine the ad hoc independence of the legal experts. This can be concluded within eight days. The legal expert there also has a deontological duty which can lead to sanctions by the acceptance committee if it is not respected. I know that some of you, Mr Van Hecke, would have preferred to see the list of legal experts immediately included in a special column a printout of those insurance companies for which they have acted or acted in the past or present. For the time being, that did not seem to me to be the case. I have argued this in detail in committee because it places a heavy responsibility on the acceptance committee and on the government as to the accuracy of that information. However, we still have a transitional period and we need to evaluate what we will see approved by Parliament today, if necessary, once that is at cruising speed. I have told you that, after evaluation, I am open to further refinement of this legislation. I heard we're in the presence of a missed or missed opportunity. However, some progress has been made, even by Mr Massin. I am glad that we can now proceed to the vote on this much-awaited project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u98	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u99	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2221/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2221/7) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Court Code and the Law of 10 April 2014 amending several provisions with a view to establishing a national register of legal experts and establishing a national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators'. The title has been amended by the commission in draft law amending the Code of Criminal Investigation, the Judicial Code and the Act of 10 April 2014 amending various provisions with a view to establishing a national register of judicial experts and establishing a national register of juror translators, interpreters and interpreters". The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u101	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Georges Dallemagne, Véronique Caprasse, Francis Delperée, Wouter De Vriendt, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Olivier Maingain, Dirk Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u102	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1427/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1427/6) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Stéphane Crusnière, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u103	Mr President, I just wanted to say that the N-VA supported the resolution, which was led by Mr Dallemagne. This resolution was drawn up following an IPU meeting with a parliamentary delegation from Tunisia. They asked the international community, the European Union but also Belgium in particular to support them. It is about supporting their efforts to consolidate democracy in the country and guarantee security, not only for the citizens but also for the tourists in Tunisia. As you all know, Tunisia has been the field of action of IS/Daesh on several occasions, with attacks in an attempt to fail the democratic transition that the country has been through since the Arab Spring and to destabilise Tunisian society, both politically and economically. That is why we want to support this resolution and extend our cooperation with Tunisia in various areas. There is a demand for, among other things, structural cooperation between armed forces, exchange of information between intelligence services but also support for development policy at the level that is possible, for example through BIO. We are very grateful to them for Tunisia's efforts in difficult economic times and in a period of image damage to the country. They're really trying to make progress. In January 2014, the country adopted a new constitution. This constitution refers explicitly to a number of concepts that we are very fond of: freedom of conscience, freedom of expression and gender equality. A new electoral law was also passed in May 2014. This led to the first free parliamentary elections in October and presidential elections in November and December 2014. It is also necessary, however, that we name things and indicate where improvements may be possible. Several reports, including the International Crisis Group report, show that institutional reforms are also needed, including in the security sector. With this resolution, we also wish to continue to support Tunisia from N-VA. It is also in line with our government initiatives to promote cooperation with this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country has been in friendship with Tunisia for a long time, almost as long as the existence of our two countries. Indeed, the first cooperation treaty dates back to 1839. Since the Arab Spring, Tunisia has been at a major turning point in its history. During his visit to this nation last December, our Prime Minister, Charles Michel, noted that it is in a democratic transition. We want to support this country's efforts. In addition to the long history of our bilateral relations, we must show solidarity with the atrocities committed by the "Naz Islamists" in this country. The MR Group has joined the unanimous vote in committee, following the taking into account of some recent developments and the achievements of our relations with Tunis. In this connection, I am pleased that the general policy note by Foreign Minister Didier Reynders mentions that, for this government, the success of Tunisia's transition will be a specific focus, to be accompanied by the revitalization of our bilateral relations. This point in our Minister's general policy note has been implemented by the government as a whole. The successive visits of the Minister of Economy, our Prime Minister and, recently, our Minister of Foreign Affairs, in less than six months, attest to this revitalization. We can only welcome these steps and encourage you to work in this direction. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we are pleased that you did not wait for a resolution from Parliament to act. The text we are about to vote on will give more support and meaning to your efforts. However, four points seem important to me. First, the Department of Foreign Affairs recently changed the travel notice for Tunisia. This change was possible thanks to the security measures taken by the Tunisian government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear at the committee meeting that this undeniable progress has fed into the evaluation of our services and is at the basis of the accuracy of the travel notice made by my department. We must be careful: a risk assessment must be permanent and the individual responsibility of Belgian citizens wishing to travel to Tunisia must be recalled. This is certainly one of the best examples of cooperation and support from our country, not only to improve the country's police or security services, but also to revitalize a vital economic sector for Tunis. Although this change of opinion may appear to be at first glance annoyance, it must be stressed that it has an important symbolic aspect. We give a positive and strong signal to other European countries that can be encouraged to follow the example of the steps we are taking. This will enable the Tunisian tourism sector to regain its dynamism. Secondly, the security situation in Tunisia is directly affected by the Libyan and Algerian political situation. The country's economic prospects are dependent on the political situation in its two neighbours. That is why Tunisia needs the support of the international community. Belgium actively supports security sector reform through the provision of expertise that makes Tunisia the second largest security sector partner in Africa. Thirdly, Belgium is keen to achieve a partial conversion of Tunisian debt. The Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke of a 10% discount with the search for projects that will be funded as a result. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the preparation of the local and regional elections in Tunisia at the end of the year underlines that the achievements of the Tunisian political transition remain fragile. We need to be careful about that. Mr President, two points still need to be clarified in our view. On the one hand, Tunisian cooperation on readmission is lacking. This aspect must be quickly resolved. On the other hand, the basic text of the resolution called for Tunisia to be once again among the partner countries of the Cooperation. While Tunisia has been part of our development cooperation partner countries, today it no longer meets the criteria for selecting those partner countries. We have other channels such as those already used to help Tunisia in concrete terms to build its democracy and its model of society. It is therefore more appropriate for us to encourage our Government to continue and expand efforts in various sectors rather than to disperse the means of our development cooperation, which would run counter to the principle of concentration applied to it. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to repeat the words spoken by the Tunisian President, Beji Caid el Sebsi, at his meeting with our Prime Minister. "Democracy," he said, "does not decree, it is practiced". To that end, Tunisia needs, more than ever, the support of our country and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the unanimous vote on this resolution will make it possible to stress, through our mandate as a representative, that it is more than a government that supports Tunisia, this friendly country. It is all Belgian citizens who are encouraging our government to help the Tunisian people develop a better future. It is logical that the MR Group supports this text and hopes that this resolution can again be adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Arab Spring started in Tunisia in 2011. Since then, the country has undergone a true transformation. Presidential elections took place in December 2014. A new government was elected in 2015. A government of national unity was even elected. The Constitution was also rewritten. However, it still contains some back doors. It is important that there are also points that can be eliminated in the future. Tunisia must, of course, continue this transformation, certainly in two areas. Firstly, in the socio-economic domain. There is a high level of youth unemployment in the country. The radicalism is increasing. Belgium can help to tackle these issues, but this must be done in a sustainable way. Not only through humanitarian aid, but also through investment, such as through BIO, the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries, can resources be made available in a targeted way to tackle unemployment and to permanently emancipate the population. Secondly, there are still steps to be taken in the area of security and defence. The resolution also calls for a strengthening of cooperation in this respect. We specifically advocate support for the police, intelligence and defence. Geographically, the country is in a real key position. Tunisia is a country that strengthens its rule of law, in a region characterised by failing states. Tunisia is a democracy on the border with the European Union. We must reach out to Tunisia as a partner to tackle the challenge we all face together. Tunisia is a country that needs stronger attention. Our group therefore welcomes this resolution and will give it its full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u106	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Dallemagne on his initiative to draft this resolution, which I hope will be approved unanimously. It is important that our assembly as a whole be able to approve a text that supports both Tunisian Democrats and the Tunisian economy. We know that democracy and the economy are intimately linked. To offer hope for economic development to this population is also a way to strengthen a democracy that is unfortunately still in progress and very often threatened. We will support the resolution, co-signed for the Ecolo-Groen Group! by my colleague Wouter De Vriendt. Several points seem to me to have to be clarified in this debate. First, a Senate resolution was passed in July 2011 and its content should not remain a dead letter. As regards debt, during a joint mission of the Belgian, Dutch and Luxembourg Prime Ministers on 5 December 2016, 11.5 % of the debt vis-à-vis Belgium was converted into investments. The Senate resolution I have just mentioned called for a moratorium on debt repayment. So there is an evolution. We are moving from debt relief in 2011 to a conversion to investment. It is a poisoned gift for Tunisians because the choice of Belgian investments in Tunisia will be made under the economic opportunities for Belgian companies and not economic opportunities for Tunisians. We must therefore pay great attention to the fact that this debt conversion takes place first and foremost in the interest of Tunisians. Let us not forget that the debt contracted by Tunisia was under Ben Ali and that it has all the shortcomings of a heinous debt. Secondly, on the occasion of a question I asked the Minister of Finance on 1 February 2017, I learned that debt conversion was a "donor-donor" with a possible readmission agreement for persons of Tunisian origin denied asylum in Belgium. This "giving-giving" is particularly unpleasant. If the Tunisian debt is to be converted or cancelled, it is not in exchange for a readmission agreement for migrants of Tunisian origin. Why do I say that? Because the situation in Tunisia, even if it is not so catastrophic when compared to that of other countries in the Middle East and North Africa, is characterized by the fact that human rights are still at an extremely low level. I'm taking a recent case as evidence. On 13 March, a 38-year-old Tunisian filmmaker was arrested by the Tunisian authorities for having had a homosexual relationship. This gentleman's name is Karim Belhadj. Two persons, at the time, were, and still are, imprisoned on the basis of article 230 of the current Tunisian Penal Code. This demonstrates the importance of point 1 of the resolution that we are going to vote on earlier, which refers to the rule of law and respect for human rights. That is why we are going to vote in favour, with, of course, all these interesting comments. We will not fail to follow the implementation of this important resolution, because it is in the right direction. Let us, however, make sure that we do not make the same mistake we made in July 2011, and make sure that we apply the excellent principles that we are going to vote on earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank my colleague Georges Dallemagne, who has taken the pen for this resolution, which many of us have co-signed. I am, of course, pleased that we are discussing this subject today in plenary. The debate we are holding this afternoon is a way to show our solidarity with the Tunisian people and to express it in a very concrete way, as well as to support Tunisian democracy. It is precisely for this reason that, on behalf of my group, I participated in a mission that was recently organised in March by the Vigilance Committee for Democracy in Tunisia. Unfortunately, this mission allowed us to see on the spot the disastrous impact of the attacks, and also negative travel notices issued by several European countries following them. Belgium had also issued a negative travel notice. The impact is real: empty hotels, shops for sale or rent, young people who are desperate and unemployed. We realize how much Tunisia has paid a heavy price for the attacks that have hit it. Of course, we can welcome the fact that Belgium has relaxed its travel notice, but the situation remains really critical. I believe that the demands contained in this resolution make sense, particularly the question of the travel notice - an aspect on which I think there is still work - both at Belgian and European level. It must be made more flexible to the extent that security circumstances are encountered. The issue of debt is obviously essential and I fully agree with what my colleague, Mr Hellings, has just said. I have also had many on-site discussions on this issue. The question of the legitimacy of this debt is central. As my colleague said, the vast majority of this debt was contracted under the previous regime and never benefited the Tunisian people. Unfortunately, I fear that converting it into an investment project will not suffice. The question of simply cancelling this debt should, in a very courageous way, be able to be examined both at Belgian and European level if we really want to support this democracy. With regard to the question of blackmail which is now being organised on the basis of this debt, I can only support the remarks and observations made by my colleague, Mr Hellings. Of course, it cannot be accepted that a country that is already with a knee on the ground should be subjected to such forms of blackmail when its situation is catastrophic. The demand to strengthen our cooperation is also essential. In this context, I would like to commend the work being done to strengthen, in particular, our police, military and intelligence cooperation with Tunisia. These are important elements and I wanted to stress them. It is difficult to imagine that we could only want to fight illegal immigration or only have a safe approach in this region. We must realize that we have important historical, geographical and socio-economic ties with that country and with the Mediterranean region, which require us to increase our political and diplomatic support for that country, and also to increase our efforts towards the Tunisian people. This support is essential for the consolidation of democracy and the strengthening of the rule of law, which guarantees human rights. We are convinced that it is necessary to address the roots of the sometimes difficult situation in this country. In this context, it is only through a just economic recovery and for the benefit of all - especially the younger ones - that we will succeed. These young people, who were at the base of the Tunisian Arab Spring, now feel like a sacrificed generation. I would like to insist on a just economic recovery for the benefit of all, because Tunisia is really under significant pressure today. For example, it has loans from the IMF, with all the conditions attached to it. We really need to be in a logic of just economic recovery that really benefits the Tunisian people. In this context, I would like to highlight the excellent cooperation with the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, as I have also seen on the spot. I urge my colleagues to work to add Tunisia to the list of partner countries for Belgian development cooperation. Mr Flahaux, it is true that this government has chosen to concentrate on the poorest countries in the area of development cooperation. However, I would like to stress that Morocco, for example, is still part of our development cooperation partner countries. I believe that the criteria which led to this decision would make it possible in the same way to examine the case of Tunisia objectively and to take a decision whose impact will be essential for democracy and for development in that country. It is also important to be able to examine the situation from a global, multidimensional point of view throughout the Mediterranean, if we are to support democracy in Tunisia. I will conclude with these few words. If terrorism unfortunately knows no borders, I believe that we must show that the values of democracy and social justice, which are carried by the Arab Spring, are stronger than anything and that we stand in solidarity with this country on all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u108	Mr Dallemagne, you should have been the first speaker to speak. If you will, you will be the last, to finish in beauty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I join other speakers in expressing their thanks to Mr Dallemagne for this initiative. We have been reminded of many arguments for a privileged relationship to be established or strengthened with Tunisia. It is true that the Member States of the European Union have not taken the full dimension of the consequences of what has been called, perhaps abusively, the Arab Spring – there would be much to say – in any case the hope that has been more marked in Tunisia than in other neighbouring countries and that has allowed a start and affirmation of a democratic transition that is still very fragile. If Tunisia, whose economic fragility is known (this country is without large own resources), could not have an economic development project thanks to a strengthened partnership with the European Union, this democratic transition would probably be condemned in the long run. Let us not hide it: the enemies of freedom in this country have a strong presence and are active! There are not only religious fundamentalists, there are other forces, including sometimes those who would like to return to the dictatorial regime that had characterized Ben Ali years in particular. That is to say, I fully support the intention of the main author of the resolution to make Belgium play a more determined and assertive role in supporting European initiatives for the benefit of Tunisia. Moreover, this bilateral relationship, Belgium-Tunisia, and the European Union-Tunisia must be part of a broader perspective which is a reflection on how the European Union must regain a real influence on the Mediterranean region. Europe has deinvested the Mediterranean region over the past few years. I was never a great laudator of Nicolas Sarkozy, but he had, at some point, put forward an idea that represented a hope for a more balanced relationship between Europe and the Mediterranean basin. Undoubtedly, if Europe does not find ways of security, peace and cooperation with the countries around the Mediterranean, there will be ever greater insecurity in Europe. That is why we are not just supporting a democratic process in Tunisia. It is to help all those who, in these countries, Tunisia and others in the Mediterranean region, are working to find a new and indispensable regional balance, far removed from the influence of the regional powers which seek to extend their influence to the detriment of the privileged relationship between Europe and the Maghreb countries, especially the Mashrek for those who want to extend up to this dimension. I therefore thank Mr Dallemagne for his initiative. We will of course support this resolution. We will follow her with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Cooperation. I agree with the comments made on debt, the fight for respect for human rights and so many other aspects that have been raised. However, Belgium should have more audacity within the European Union in order to force it to finally take full measure of its responsibility for the stability of the Mediterranean basin, a process in which Tunisia and other partners in northern Africa could be more closely involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can of course find ourselves perfectly in the initiative of such a resolution in support of Tunisia, a country which was the basis of the Arab revolutions in 2011 and which is now the target of terrorist groups in particular. The PTB has closely followed events there, maintained and continues to maintain very good contacts with many activists of the social movement, democratic rights in the country. We therefore support both the spirit and certain points of this motion for a resolution, in particular as regards the need for uniform travel notices at European level, which take account of the positive developments in the Tunisian security situation or the commitment to deepen exchanges between our parliamentary assemblies. However, there are points in which we do not find ourselves. They either lack clarity, or they don't fit our vision. For example, there is a form of pressure or blackmail in the fact that measures, particularly with regard to debt, are conditioned by migration policy reforms. In his answer to this question, Minister Van Overtveldt implied it in committee. We do not agree with European migration policy or with these attempts to use Belgian and European cooperation measures to force beneficiary countries to participate in this migration policy. The second problematic point is the idea of converting Tunisian debt. We agree on this point with the position advocated by the Tunisian People's Front and taken up by the CADTM, the Committee for the cancellation of the debt of the third world, organizations that require an audit of the Tunisian debt and the cancellation of any illegitimate debt. This debt seems to be illegitimate. There needs to be a clear position on debt cancellation. The third reservation relates to the 3D approach. It is not explicit, but in the text clearly shows the will to link Defense, Diplomacy and Development. This approach seems to us to be an instrument of cooperation. As this motion for a resolution contains drinking and eating, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u111	Mr. President, Mr. Van Hees repeated an argument that I made – the fact that the Minister of Finance announced that there was a giver for debt conversion in exchange for signing an agreement. That does not prevent you, Mr Van Hees, from signing the motion for a resolution. Indeed, at no time is there any mention of such an agreement giving and giving. If you start a quick search in the text, you will see that the terms "migrants", "refugees", "migration" do not appear anywhere. It is therefore with full knowledge that the Greens will vote on this motion for a resolution. It is a question of debt conversion, but not of the signing of a readmission agreement, which would oblige some applicants for asylum of Tunisian origin who have been rejected at home to return to Tunisia. That is why we are perfectly comfortable voting for this text with confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u112	Mr President, Mr Hellings, in two words, I agree that this is not mentioned as such, but it is also not explicitly excluded from this text. It is this lack of clarity that we condemn him. We also know that it is co-signed by a majority that is part of this vision. On the other hand, I have mentioned other points which are also problematic. We will therefore abstain, but at the same time remember that, in our view, this text has several positive points.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u113	Mr President, as has been said, there is no point in adding anything. In my personal capacity and on behalf of the People's Party, I will vote in favour of Belgium's motion for a resolution in support of Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, because many arguments have already been put forward. I thank the two members of the government who kindly attend our discussion. I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for having kindly postponed this debate, which was scheduled last week, so that I can say a few words. First of all, I would like to thank the co-authors of this text: Mrs Caprasse, Mr Delperée, Mr. De Vriendt, Mrs Grovonius, Mr Maingain and Mr. Van der Maelen. The motion for a resolution has received the support of many groups from the outset. The discussion in committee allowed us to reach a unanimous vote. A few words of retroact. We no longer really remember Mr Mohamed Bouazizi, who was killed by fire in December 2010. This sacrifice and the demonstrations that followed this event caused a upheaval, a movement of hope in the marches of Europe, the Arab Spring. This hope has continued: many countries have fallen into chaos, some countries have again experienced dictatorship and very few have made progress towards democracy. After the Arab Spring, only Tunisia, which also wavered at some point in Islamism and violence, stood firm, kept the course of freedoms and stability, voted in 2014 for this new Constitution, of which it can be proud, which preserves its freedoms. Tunisia thus maintained stability despite the heinous attacks, notably that of the Bardo Museum, on 18 March 2015, that of Sousse, in June 2015, which together caused 97 victims. The Tunisians, despite extremely serious internal and political, economic and social difficulties, despite these terrorist attacks, especially those from Libya, despite the participation of several hundred Tunisians in jihad in the ranks of the Islamic State, have succeeded in strengthening their security and preserving their freedoms in recent months. It was important not only for Tunisia, but also for Europe. We have given our support to Tunisians, especially you, Mr Vandeput. I am pleased that we have been able to strengthen our cooperation in the fight against terrorism, our military and intelligence cooperation. The resolution before you today calls for continued, strengthened, "more boldness" – in the words of Mr. Maingain – so that Tunisia, which remains fragile in economic and social terms, in political terms and in terms of its security, can continue to stabilize. Belgium did not stand up. It acted, in particular with the visit of the Benelux Ministers on 5 and 6 December, and made an important political gesture and our solidarity with Tunisia. But the effort can be strengthened. Let me remind you of three points that many other colleagues have already mentioned. First, it was important to modify and evolve travel notices. It was not clear why Belgium had a particularly harsh and restrictive travel notice with respect to Tunisia, which, however, had not known an attack for more than a year, while the travel notice for a range of other countries such as Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon was much more nuanced. I am pleased that our resolution has already produced effects in this area. In fact, it was adopted on 21 February and on 23 February, the next day, Belgium relaxed its travel notice. Perhaps we could go further, as Mrs Grovonius suggests. But today, the travel notice is nuanced according to the particular situation in the different geographical areas of the country. The situation is not the same at borders, especially at the Libyan border, as at the coast or in certain tourist areas. In any event, this evolution of travel notices has already had a very significant impact, as tour operators have reactivated these destinations directly and bookings for Tunisia have already seen a dramatic jump. Secondly, with regard to cooperation, I was in favour of including Tunisia in the countries of cooperation – I am pleased to hear that the Socialist Group shares my view. We had that possibility. The Government has foreseen that 15 countries could be included in this list of bilateral partners of our Cooperation. Today, however, there are only 14 countries. Although some poverty criteria are not met, the country is experiencing major social difficulties. It is a country on the marches of Europe. It is a country that is strategic for us and whose stability and social situation are crucial for our country. As was the case with Morocco, all the ingredients were gathered so that this country – because it is our interest, because it is its interest, because there is a well-understood solidarity – would become the fifteenth partner country of our Cooperation. I therefore regret that we have not been able to reach a conclusion on this point. Having said that, I note that thanks in particular to the support of an amendment to the CD&V, we will mobilise the instruments of cooperation – it is not only a matter of BIO, but also of all the appropriate instruments – to ensure that, at the social level, tomorrow, our cooperation is more important than today. Thirdly, as regards the Tunisian debt, it is true that we could have cancelled it. It amounts to EUR 24 million. It's not colossal. This represents 1.5 per cent of the development cooperation budget. The previous government had committed itself to translating this debt into an investment effort. So we are talking about EUR 24 million; I think we would have done well to cancel this debt, which is old. This would have been worthy of Belgium. I hear that the government wants to link this debt to migratory flows. Fortunately, this is not in our resolution. Mr Van Hees, when you criticise certain aspects of the resolution, we must first read it! This is not in our resolution! Happily indeed, because I would have opposed it. We must not mix the subjects! Some shortcomings may exist but, overall, the essentials are preserved. Our parliament sends a strong signal to our Tunisian friends. We welcome the efforts of Tunisians to maintain their freedom and security. We are at their side and this solidarity is reflected in economic and security terms as well as in cooperation and social action. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for supporting this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on this motion for a resolution. The government did not wait for this resolution to take action. In December 2016, the Prime Minister submitted a proposal for debt conversion worth €3 million, representing 11.5 per cent of Tunisian debt. I know you're asking for more, but we've already taken a step. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would also like to give an overview for my own departments of the progress of the contribution we have made in terms of cooperation with Tunisia, particularly as regards the structural development of this cooperation. If we look at the budget, we are talking about EUR 523 000 in 2015. For 2017, this will amount to around EUR 1.3 million. Mr Dallemagne, I think it is important to point out that Tunisia is our second partner on the African continent. Mr President, I have all mentioned the other elements. I can stress once again that the government thinks this is a good resolution, but that it did not wait for this resolution to move a number of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u116	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u117	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Deseyn, rapporteur, referred to his written report. The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2384/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2384/1) Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u118	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u120	Mr President, I hesitated a little about the report. The issue here is obviously very important because it is the financing of social security. We have been talking about this for many hours in committee. We've arranged auditions. It is also interesting to review the views of the social partners on this project. I think the point of the debate is not an oral report from the written report: the text is there. There are actually two texts because there have been two readings. The report has a total of almost 180 pages. I am in favour of brief statements, on the contrary of my colleague David Clarinval. I would like to set an example by saying that it is more important to hear the views of the political groups on the content in plenary. For the rest, everyone can read the report again. For my part, Mr President, I shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u121	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law on the revision of the financing of social security. We have been discussing this for hours and have had interesting auditions. The debate was intense at times and sometimes on the brink of emotion. That is logical and good, because it is a very important subject. It is sometimes forgotten that there is EUR 85 billion in social security, and after the state reform, there is still EUR 75 billion, which amounts to about double the Flemish government's budget, to take just one point of reference. What is even more important, perhaps, is that social security has an impact on the lives of every citizen and also on society as a whole. A third reason why it is good to debate this extensively is that this time it is a structural reform. It's not about margin rumblings, it's about fundamental structural reform. Our group considers this to be a good and much-needed reform, but I shall return to that immediately. In order to properly assess the necessity and scope of this draft law, I should like to describe part of the history of the financing of social security. In fact, these are two periods, the period 2009-2014, before the sixth state reform, and the period from 2015 to now, after the sixth state reform. During that first period, our social security system had a structural deficit in the sense that only 60% of benefits were covered by the social contributions of employees and employers. The other 40% had to be recovered through a number of public grants from general funds, i.e. tax money, but also through alternative financing of social security, other receipts, investments and so on, as well as through the famous balancing donation introduced in 2009 following the then prevailing economic crisis which reduced VAT revenue. It became somewhat problematic because the percentage of VAT revenue allocated to the alternative financing was a fixed and unrecognizable percentage set at 23.5 %. This could no longer cover the increasing alternative financing and therefore a series of laws were passed with new destinations for this alternative financing. It could not be: administrative costs of the PWAs, paid educational leave, RVA, pensions, aviation personnel, social economy, service cheques. All cases of which part was paid to social security to have sufficient alternative funding. The result was that alternative financing became very complex and very untransparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u122	In the second phase, the sixth state reform, which transferred whole parts of social security to the Länder, came together for some EUR 9 billion. However, the parameters determining the amount of tax revenue to be deducted were not adjusted. Thus, the constant rate of 23.5 % of VAT revenue was still reduced and transferred to social security. One of the consequences of this was that, when the budget was drawn up, we were suddenly confronted with the fact that social security began to show some kind of artificial surplus in 2014-2015 because the alternative funding remained but part of the expenditure had been transferred. Therefore, the balance settlement scheme was not extended in 2015. That was a one-time correction. The N-VA pointed out at that time that a reform with transparent alternative funding would have to be implemented in the short term. After these two phases, a number of necessities led to the draft law now before us. First of all, there was the balancing dose of about EUR 6 billion, which was not responsive at the time. There was the very complex alternative financing, with specific sources of funding and specific destinations. There was the effect of the sixth state reform, as I have just explained. And then there was the tax shift that reduced social contributions to a number of billions, which had to be compensated by an increase in alternative funding. The present reform broadly preserves the structure of funding, with the three pillars. Firstly, the social contributions, the weight of which is slightly higher, from 50% to 60%. Secondly, there is still the state grant, but it is getting slightly smaller. Thirdly, the alternative financing to cover the reduction of the burden. However, there are major changes in content. Firstly, we are talking about simplified and transparent alternative financing. There are only two alternative sources of financing, namely VAT revenue and withholding tax on capital. This was something that the social partners had also asked for in their opinion of 2015. Secondly, the percentage of alternative financing from VAT revenue and withholding tax will in future be calculated transparently each year on the basis of possible new tax policies, such as broadening the taxable basis for VAT. So that percentage won't be fixed anymore. It's gonna be variable. Thirdly, the equilibrium dose is being responsive. The amount at this closure will only be determined annually as a political decision after the charging of a number of response factors. As far as the latter is concerned, there are a number of them. I am thinking, for example, of the agreements concluded by the social partners, which should no longer have a negative financial impact on social security. If there is such an impact, they will have to come up with alternative corrective proposals. This also applies to the government. If the government finds that a number of measures do not produce the expected effects, the government must also take corrective action. In fact, this has been debated for a long time in committee. Another factor is if a measure is implemented incorrectly or is not implemented, and this non-implementation has a significant financial impact on social security. We have already seen examples of this. The performance of social security itself is also rewarded in the new system. If the effective age of exit increases by four to six months a year, equilibrium dose increases as well and consequently the pressure on the social partners and the government is reduced by this response. A third part is not so much content but rather methodological in nature. This draft law ensures a better monitoring of social security income and expenditure. A Committee on Finance and Budget will be set up with experts from the social security administrations, including from the FPS Finance. This committee is responsible for monitoring the evolution of social benefits and income on a monthly basis on the basis of certain on-board tables. One will also look at the effect of the communicating vessels. If they identify a risk of derailment, this committee should inform the government in time so that the social security management committees can also devise and propose corrective measures. As a conclusion, I can say that this draft law leads to a simple, transparent but also modernised funding of social security, which also takes into account the changed context in a number of cases. The adjustment of the structural deficit in social security becomes the subject of a political decision. I believe that the restoration of the primacy of politics for such important budgets is important. We have already discussed the question of accountability. It also provides for the financing of reduced social security contributions as a result of the tax shift. A recalculation has been made until 2020, but this bill also contains a number of guarantees to absorb developments after that period. I understand the concerns of some of my fellow Members, I also understand the concerns of a number of civil society organisations, but I believe that this draft is about to provide a stronger social support for social security and a more stable financial support. In this way, our social security can become a little more social and a little more secure. I am sure that the practice in the coming years will show that this is a good draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with this project, we come at a key moment, at a pivotal moment in the history of this government. He had used us to a whole series of reforms that, in reality, degrade the quality of our social state: all pension reforms, index jumps, consumer taxation. We lock up the wages and not the dividends. This is reflected in a whole series of achievements on the quality of employment, but here we are reaching peaks. We're attacking social security, not just to save money here and there. No! It is our social model as a whole that we weaken. We do it, I would say, in a particular context. Under this government and its budgetary approximations - we know that we are very far from the goed bestuur that had been boasted by a northern party - the social security deficit for 2017 is three times greater than expected, mainly due to poor fiscal estimates. Secondly, according to the Plan Bureau's forecasts, in order to achieve balance in 2018, revenues - it is also hoped - and expenditures, some 6.5 billion euros will have to be found. Finally, you all still have in mind the statements of the president of the first party of this government, Bart De Wever, who said: "There is only in social security that we can still snack money." That is the context. Indeed, it is in this context that the government chose to impose this bill on the reform of social security financing. I am convinced, the PS is convinced that with this project, you really offer social security as a dish of resistance to the appetites of the N-VA. You know that social security is a very important issue for us Socialists. We have always fought to have the most effective social security system. We have developed the mechanism for overall management, balance staffing, diversification of funding sources, and accountability locks. We are particularly proud to have succeeded in achieving, with this social security, one of the pillars of our democracy. Moreover, all over the world, Belgium is cited as an example for its social security system. I will tell those who look at her a little like a five-legged monster that social security is not something abstract. This is not a budgetary burden that we must bear. It is often said: "Yes, but you know, it is difficult. Besides, with you, social security has been in deficit." Yes, of course. And you applauded that. Why? Simply because in times of crisis, social security was the real shield of our state. We thanked her for that. Moreover, thanks to our social security system, during the crisis our economic growth rate remained higher than that of all the countries of the European Union. On the other hand, it was indeed necessary to pay a certain price, which is quite explainable. In a crisis, there are fewer jobs and therefore more spending; there are fewer contributions, which means less revenue. In addition, plans to reduce social contributions are being made to boost the economy. We did, too. This makes a further decrease in revenues for social security. This is not a malfunction of social security. These are not the unresponsible ones that have led to social security deficits. This is inherent in the follow-up to the crisis on the one hand, and in the modalities for recovery on the other. Social security is the common heritage of all Belgians. It follows our fellow citizens throughout their lives. And I would say that she connects them in solidarity. It allows all our fellow citizens to take care of themselves, through reimbursement of medical care or medicines. It allows them, once older, to have a retirement pension. In the event of dismissal, it allows for income to continue living. Finally, we know the virtues of social security. Remember that without it, the risk of poverty rate in Belgium would be 43 per cent instead of 15 per cent at present, which is still far too high. It is a formidable tool for sharing wealth and reducing social inequalities. I am obviously not surprised that a right-wing government is attacking this identity, this DNA of social security, but we were not thinking – we and the trade union organisations, the mutualist organisations, all the academic specialists we have heard – that you would dare go that far. Definitely, this spring is really the spring of anti-social security. I am thinking in particular of what will fall in the coming days, of the savings imposed by Mrs De Block, which will mean that on April 1, 2017, the price of a series of medicines will increase. On May 1, 2017, a highly symbolic day for workers, it is the price of antibiotics that will rise. I am also thinking of the new measures that the Minister of Pensions is about to take, including the reform of all diploma bonuses, the years of study. So we're going to have to work longer to get lower pensions again. And today, this disastrous project really introduces worm into the apple. Without wishing to repeat the lengthy debates that we have had in committee, interesting and in-depth debates, I would like to return to a few essential points. As part of the financing of social security, the government introduces an ageing coefficient. At first, you can say that's really interesting. As we know, demographic changes will lead to new social security needs. Moreover, those who were in committee have, of course, told the mutuals. I think, for example, of what Mr Hermesse or Mr Jadot said. In 2000, 186,000 people were over the age of 85 and by 2050 700,000. This is the figure to remember and it is a certainty because people who will be over 85 in 2050, they were born. So, that's a certainty. There will, of course, be very important effects on social security expenditure, and it is important to prepare for it, by adapting the budget and the arrangements for the financing of social security. As I said, the government - perhaps with a good intention, I don't know - initially plans to apply an ageing factor. But why can't we rejoice? Because this ageing coefficient is doubly conditional first on achieving an extremely ambitious economic performance – plus 1.5% of GDP, while average GDP growth has been 0.9% and 1.2% over the last five and ten years; these are the figures of the National Bank – then, to the achievement of a partisan political choice to reduce the pension age. If, by way of exception, these two conditions are met, it will be the government which, arbitrarily, will say yes or no to the adaptation of the ageing coefficient. In the end, this coefficient is likely to be simply a sweet, meaningless promise, while the needs are real! In reality, I think that by accepting this, you have given real tools to the opponents of good social security financing. I'm already imagining a budget conclave. Is there a deficit in the Secu? It's your fault! If you want an effort to provide balance, you have to commit to increasing the ageing coefficient and therefore, tighten the screw once again in terms of pensions. I think it's clear as rock water. Unfortunately, as we know too well the particularly weak degree of resistance of the ministers who have the social matters in their remit, we feel the absolute trap! Secondly, alternative financing. In order to compensate for reductions in social contributions and the tax shift, it is normally necessary to provide adequate alternative financing in order to prevent social security from being penalized. Nor have the social partners decided to reduce social contributions. It's the government's tax shift. They can't help it. We have to compensate for that. This funding must be sufficient. For this reason, the social partners, for all alternative financing, have requested that, in the event of insufficient tax revenues, part of the professional discount be deducted. This demand is all the more understandable as the government has again misestimated revenues. For this financial year, the furniture discount and VAT will respectively bring back 281 million and 40 million euros less than expected. All the social partners, trade unions and employers' organisations, agreed to address this request to the government. The latter, by acting only at his head, disregarding social consultation, refused and chose to take the risk that alternative financing would be insufficient by retaining tobacco excise duties as a source of reserve. Here, too, it exposes you, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers of social affairs, in front of your contradictors. You agree to be more in a position to quemander. They will then require additional savings. I have just said that the tax shift increases the social security deficit. The Government has provided additional funding. But it is weak, because the government, as usual, is convinced that there will be many returns. It is a rhyme that Mr Laaouej and the members of the Finance Committee are well aware of. The worst thing is that not only is there no provision for good tax shift compensation, but the government has said that, from 2021 onwards, in order to avoid transparency, to avoid the tax shift being called into question, all alternative financing would be merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u124	As a result, it will become impossible to verify the source of any budgetary problems. In committee, we felt one or the other minister opening up a little bit. We perceived that they were somewhat sensitive to our arguments. The report shows that the Minister of Social Affairs even said: "To properly assess the consequences of tax shift, we could work with the Central Economic Council and the National Labour Council". We supported this suggestion, but added that we could then include it in the text, for example in the form of an amendment - confident that it would be voted on. Clearly, as usual, these ministers were muzzled by their colleagues. I take this opportunity to speak now about health care. Here too, the government preferred to refuse, deny the unanimous request – hear me well: unanimous! – trade unions and employers' organisations, in short, the social partners, who wanted the government to take over the budgetary objective of health care. However, this demand was perfectly legitimate, since the social partners have very little effect on expenditure and it is the government which sets the budgetary objective and imposes drastic savings in this area. I would point out that the standard was, at some point, 4.5% to meet the needs in terms of the fight against cancer, and that we will soon, under this Parliament, reach around 0% in relation to economic growth. Imagine! This means that these are obviously sharp and brutal savings on the backs of the sick. Once again, the social partners are working on the project, proposing solutions and the government decides to maintain its point of view in our negotiations. The treatment of balance staffing by the government is the most serious issue. I had introduced it so that, no matter what, social security could be balanced at the end of the year. All the parties in the government agreed. It was at the time of the great crisis, when social security was the pump, the shield to protect our country from the effects of the crisis. At every moment, I had made sure that the state could always pay for pensions, pay for medicine, compensate the sick, the victims of the lack of employment. Today, balance is no longer guaranteed. Moreover, for all those who have followed the work in committee, in this area the government says everything and its opposite. It's amazing: not only do they say it, but they write it! In the law it is stipulated: "There will be no deficit thanks to balance staffing." This suggests that the project has not been changed. Then, Mrs De Block shows us the opposite, on page 80 of the report of the committee's work: "It is not automatic to increase the balance to finance the overrun." In the explanatory memorandum, "decisions whether or not to fill slippages will be subject to political arbitration". "This endowment cannot be a blank cheque," it is said again. They say everything and its opposite! The most complete blur! Actually, I'd say "not so much." You will, you say, have a part of the balance and for the rest, you will impose savings on the social partners in the expenditure on security. That is why this has been so criticized by all those we have heard. Because of the lack of commitment to balance, you impose substantial savings year after year on social security and the social partners. In the negotiations, you lost. They – those who don't like the security; I'm thinking of the N-VA who always says so – have accepted a four-year extension of the balance. But you paid for it by a structural change in the method of financing social security with conditions – you said factors – of accountability so that you could even have some of the balance staffing. They will impose some savings and then some balance staffing, and they will only have it based on accountability factors. I will tell you a few words about the accountability factors because we do not see how the social partners, co-managers of social security, can be empowered through this. The balance will depend on the effects of measures to combat social fraud. How are the social partners responsible for this? In what? It's amazing! And we put this first, to induce the idea that the security deficit is certainly due to the social fraudsters and social security managers who protect these fraudsters. It's madness! How can the social partners be empowered to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u125	Mrs Onkelinx, thank you for your statement. Of course, we share the first part of it when you say that social security is particularly important. It is true that, in times of crisis, our social security has counterweighted the effects of the economic crisis in our country. If we both agree on the importance of social security, then the question arises as to how we can maintain it. How can we ensure that social security, as far as we are concerned, remains in existence forever and provides the same care? If you consider the maintenance of social security to be so important, I find it surprising that you are opposed to an obvious measure. We ensure that people retire after a normal period of time. When someone retires a year later, it has a huge effect, because that person costs a year less pension and he also contributes an extra year. You are opposed to such an obvious measure. You believe that the retirement age should be maintained as it used to be. In the meantime, we know that the careers in Belgium are four years shorter than in neighbouring countries. Of course, we can donate money and ensure equilibrium; we all support this with our group. However, we must also do the other thing, namely to ensure that expenditure is structurally in line with revenue. If we don't, where does that lead us? You claim that the government is attacking social security, but in my opinion that is not correct. In the health sector and in pensions, we are adding several billion euros. We do not do that in unemployment, fortunately, because unemployment is falling. Important efforts are being made: in nominal terms, we are adding several billion euros. You act like social security is under attack, but I'm gonna bounce the ball back and ask you what your alternative is? Raising the retirement age is an obvious measure that is also being taken in the neighbouring countries, regardless of the composition of the ruling coalition. How come you do not support this obvious measure? I'm very surprised about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u126	Mr Bogaert, you know very well, as I do, that raising the retirement age does not contribute to longer working in itself. We have always said that there must be longer working hours, that there must be longer careers. The Pension Commission says the same thing, by the way. But it is not enough to raise the retirement age alone. What do we see today? We are seeing a shift towards health insurance, because people get sick in the past, and towards the unemployment system. Despite the many promises made, the government has not taken any measures to make it possible to work longer, quite the contrary. We have just had the debate on this. The pension bonus has been abolished and a few weeks ago Mr Bacquelaine had to admit that the pensions of workers in runways, a system that should enable them to work longer, are falling. Mr Bogaert, instead of always talking about the retirement age, the government must take measures so that people can work longer, and you do not do that at all. That's our criticism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u127	Mrs Onkelinx, I am extremely concerned about the following. Your party and s.pa have stated on several occasions, even last week, that if they were to rule again in our country, they would reduce the retirement age from 67 years to 65 years. That is what Mr Vande Lanotte has said here, and I also hear all the PS colleagues saying that they will do so, à la française, like Mr Hollande. I am particularly concerned about this, because it is not just symbolic. Absolutely not, it is a reform that has an unlikely impact on the financing of the pension system. Mrs Temmerman says that the measure no longer makes people work. Then you have to explain to me how it is that we are halving the additional cost of ageing thanks to this measure. EUR 8 billion will be spent less thanks to raising the retirement age. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Onkelinx is concerned about the financing of social security. However, when such measures are proposed, I am much more concerned. Mrs Onkelinx, you must explain to me how you intend to finance the EUR 8 billion gap by reducing the retirement age from 67 to 65 years. Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is apparently that the EUR 8 billion will be financed by capital. Here we go again. Eight billion euros are intended to be financed by capital. Listen carefully: we want EUR 8 billion to be financed by capital: by tax on speculation, in short, more taxes. The story's out. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you the real answer. The majority of the parties have a fucking duty to do their job and to guarantee social security. The reality is that Mrs Onkelinx, when she was part of the majority not so long ago, herself initiated reforms that she is coming back to. That is the reality. These are difficult but necessary reforms to enable social security to be financed. Colleagues, there are no miracle interventions through a speculative tax. The only measure to ensure that our social security is financed sustainably is to ensure that more people work longer. That's the only thing you can do. I'll finish my reasoning. Mr Laaouej, last week the Planning Bureau published a study which shows that for the first time in 12 years the employment rate, which stood at 67% in our country, will increase to 70% in 2020. When we talk about reforms, that is not a small but a big step. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is only by working longer and keeping more people on the job that we will be able to finance social security. So everyone who comes back today to the reforms that we have put in place organizes irresponsibility. Mrs Onkelinx, you should actually be ashamed to declamate on the chair that the current government is threatening social security. The opposite is true. That kind of populism undermines social security. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u128	Colleagues, I would like to, but Mrs Onkelinx will be isolated here in the long term. That's not the point. The speaker must also be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u129	Mr President, I will be very brief. Mr Van Quickenborne, longer work, we all agree on that. Then you have to explain to me why the government, Minister Bacquelaine in particular, is constantly taking measures that actually punish workers if they work longer, which mean that their pensions are lower if they work longer. You're gonna have to explain that to me. That's completely different than raising your age. On the other hand, workers must be encouraged to work longer. The government doesn't. We are one hundred percent in favour of this: giving workers the opportunity to work longer, but you do not do that at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u130	That was short indeed. Mrs Fonck, I would ask you to speak as briefly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u131	Mr President, I would like to remind colleagues in the majority of two or three points. Since you decided to raise the age of legal retirement to the pension, what has been the effect of your measures? Has the increase in the additional cost of pensions been less in the last two years? No. Each year, this cost increases by an additional $1.5 billion. Have you raised the effective retirement age to the pension? No. Did you increase the employment rate for the 55-65 age group? No. On the other hand, have you increased the number of sick or disabled leavers? Yes, more than 15% in two years. I agree with you on this point, Mr Van Quickenborne: it is of course the employment rate that must be played, and more importantly, the total employment rate and that of the 55-65 age group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u132	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u133	For peanuts, dear Mr. Borsus! Let me finish! Belgium, among the countries of the European Union and the OECD, is one of the countries with the lowest employment rate in the 55-65 age group. What have you undertaken as construction sites to increase this rate? You have removed measures that, however, both quantitatively and qualitatively, allow people to work longer to have longer careers. Indeed, these reforms are essential if social security is to be properly financed and balanced tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u134	Mr President, I did not want to speak at this stage of the debate, but Mrs Fonck has just said something that is wrong. Mrs Fonck has just stated that the employment rate of those over 55 has not increased in Belgium. That's strictly not true. I think our assembly deserves correct and validated information. I would add that the overall employment rate, as you have all just read, has just increased by 0.5%, which is the first step from the perspective that Mr. Van Quickenborne just described. At times, we must be able to agree on the validated figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u135	Minister Borsus, I would like to hear a lot, but I invite you to look at the latest OECD report, which is extremely interesting in this area. Here you glorify Belgium's position for the 55-65 year-olds. If we compare our situation with that of the countries with which we can compare ourselves, whether at Eurostat or OECD level, we are the record, but unfortunately from the bottom. You removed the only measures that existed to increase the employment rate for the 55-65 age group. And one of the major projects to increase the employment rate in this particular age group has been non-existent, for two years, thanks to your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u136	Mr President, I will be very brief, because otherwise we could spend the night. That was the case in committee, so why not in plenary? Mr Van Quickenborne, you say that, given demography, raising retirement to 67 is the only measure that can guarantee the long-term financial viability of social security, that there is no other recipe. It's a political choice. It's an ideological choice. We do not share your point of view. In our view, there are other possibilities. Did the majority parties such as the Open Vld, the MR and the CD&V have a belief in raising the pension age to 67 in their electoral agenda? I don't think so. None of these courses offered this measure to our fellow citizens. I think that a divine truth fell after the elections and came to the conclusion that, finally, raising the retirement age was the only measure that could guarantee the sustainability of social security. As far as I'm concerned, excuse me, I don't believe it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u137	Mr President, I would like to thank the colleagues who have spoken for this debate. Social security reform is an important issue. It is therefore normal that we should be interrupted to hear each other. That said, with Mr. Van Quickenborne, you will have noticed that it is always the same thing: we must make efforts in social matters and "stumble" in the social basket! Look at the tax basket! You're doing anything in the tax basket with crazy budget estimates! We're getting to an exercise where we have $2 billion less than we planned. And who pays? It's social because you've done anything at the tax level! Start by reforming taxation, making it fairer and you may then be interested in the social basket! Secondly, I know that adequate ways must be found to meet the additional cost of social security due to ageing. You're right. It is clear that the employment rate needs to be increased, particularly for workers entering the market after 55 years. I'm not going to say older workers. They are still young, valiant, vigorous and experienced. But not all of them are. There are different ways to increase the employment rate of the most experienced. With the CD&V, we worked on the bonus on the job. We had also put forward proposals to reduce working time at the end of a career because some are more tired, in any case in certain occupations, while ensuring that they did not lose anything in terms of pay. This allowed an undeniable advantage to remain in employment for those who could. On the contrary, you are under duress and, therefore, you have, as a handiwork return, an extremely significant increase in expenditure on disability benefits and health care, in addition to exhausting a whole series of men and women who have worked their entire lives. In my opinion, you are advocating bad solutions. I take this opportunity to say that if we have the chance, at some point, to rework in the federal government, we will demand that we return to retirement at age 65. On the other hand, Mr Bogaert, we worked together, as with other colleagues. What happened to each conclave? We looked at the tax, we looked at the social and then the third basket, which is a "various" basket. As far as social matters are concerned, we were working together on measures that have been taken. We have assumed our responsibilities in absolutely all areas, including pensions, including employment, including health care. What we are doing here, Mr Bogaert, in the context of the reform of the financing of social security is something else. It really means, "I see there's a deficit." And some say that, since there is a deficit, it must be filled. You can have a little balance, but then you have to take this and that and the minister can say: "Thanks to the reform, as it is planned, either I take new measures on which we agree, or I send the hot potato to the social partners" by saying: "You only have to arrange to put you together and agree on savings in all areas of social security, otherwise it will be in imbalance and we will leave it in imbalance, because the allocation will be insufficient." This is exactly the game in which they were plunged and they are here, blissfully, to accept this game imposed by the N-VA. It's incomprehensible! I come back to the accountability factors. The first factor, therefore, is the fight against social fraud. The second factor of accountability - I would remind you that we are in balance staffing - is the effects of measures to combat misuse mechanisms. What is this? What does the fight against improper use mean? That's what we've been told, which is something that's not legal. A mechanism is used for purposes that are not legal. In this case, we simply have to take responsibility through legislation, as we have to do with tax optimisation. Why do you want to empower the social partners in this area? It's incomprehensible! A law would have been enough! The third factor - there are six - is the contribution of social security to the achievement of budgetary objectives as set out in the Stability Pact. This is not at all the responsibility of the social partners. They are not the ones negotiating the Stability Pact, but they are the ones who are responsible for imposing additional savings. So, in a way, social security really becomes the adjustment variable in support of austerity. It's unbearable! Fourth accountability factor: causes of volume increases. There, too, we had a discussion in committee. That was the blur on the part of the ministers. They did not know how the social partners were responsible for the volume effects. If, in terms of health care, people are more ill, because they have to work longer, for example, worse, it is the social partners who are responsible. They will have to take action. But at last! It is not for the social partners to be responsible for the volume effects in any area of social security. They can, of course, be partners in negotiations, discussions and consultations, as they have always done. Our social partners in Belgium are responsible social partners. But to say "I am not responsible; the social partners have only to consider measures" is very strange in terms of the responsibility of the government. Fifth factor of accountability: respect for budgetary neutrality or non-compliance with agreements concluded between the social partners. It's interesting and very clear. Ladies and gentlemen, the social partners are now simply placed under guardianship. They can no longer make an interprofessional agreement, as they are used to doing every two years. Oh, no! If you make an interprofessional agreement and this interprofessional agreement has a budgetary cost - it is an agreement that is concluded between trade unions and employers - well, well, we, the government, will execute one part and not another, because we want the neutrality of the budgetary agreements, which is a condition for the balance. That is why the social partners have said that, by means of the method of financing the security, you really put them under supervision and that will not facilitate all the social peace work necessary for the economic and social development of our country. Finally, the sixth and final accountability factor: the follow-up of the government's actions. What is this? If we are working on a royal decree no matter how, that we are not taking a good step, that a royal decree is badly done, why are the social partners responsible? It is unimaginable, but one had to imagine: the government has defined accountability factors to relieve itself of its own responsibility for the political choices it must impose. It's unimaginable! A government of irresponsibles throws the stone to the social partners by saying: "Even if I hurt, they only have to catch up with the sauce." It's not serious! That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to say to you, in short. The most cynical thing about this whole thing is that an irresponsible budgetary government is supposedly trying to empower the managers of underfunded social security. It should be recalled that, since it was in place, this government has never presented a credible budget, the returns of which have been respected. To come and learn from the social partners, it's hard to see! We see the reasons why the government may decide in the future not to pay full balance. They're totally arbitrary. It is not a question of accountability, but rather of laying the foundations for a paradigm shift, where social security, as I said earlier, would become a simple variable of budgetary adjustment. In fact, our colleague from the N-VA acquiesce. Mr Bogaert could also reply to his colleague from the N-VA, who is in the lead when I say that all the funding for social security has been weakened. He's happy, he says, "Yes, yes." Mr Bogaert, answer him. It's been like this since then when I say it's weakened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u138	I didn't see what happened behind me. So it's hard for me to comment on that. We agree that social security is particularly important and that it needs structural funding. The fact that there is a way there by increasing the employment rate is something we agree on. In fact, we agree that if the government makes certain fiscal forecasts, it must fill them out. Everyone in the hemisphere will say that if 100 are provided for when there is only 80, one will somehow have to go up to 100 during the budgetary year. If necessary, we must catch up. We agree on that, too. The same applies to social security. If a hole falls, it cannot be said that it has to be filled automatically from the general pot. That's too easy a way to look at things, isn't it? That's not how social security survives in the long run, is it? That's impossible. I won't say this is a third-payer system, but if anyone's short, he'll have to close the hole. Breaking pot is paying for it. For our party this applies to tax revenue, but also to social security. If there's a hole there, it needs to be closed. One cannot automatically say that someone else will pay it. If you keep doing that, you'll create a..it can't be If you combine this with your long-term vision and refuse to cooperate in necessary measures, social security will go bankrupt. We absolutely must avoid that. Therefore, with all due respect, I agree with certain things, but totally disagree with other things you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u139	Your party had accepted the balance. There were reasons for that. Either you were unconscious or you had negotiated badly, unless you were particularly weak. I'm used to being accountable. Everyone knows, in my political life, I have often made difficult decisions. Government after government, in the budgetary conclaves, I have taken on my responsibilities - in particular to save social security. What you are doing here is absolutely not to empower the government to consolidate social security. You take it out of your hands, and you get an apology. All the "accountability factors" are excuses to simply say: "I sub-finance and send the hot potato to the social partners" so that they reduce the means of security. In this way, you avoid the debate on income for social security. That's exactly what was imagined by each other. I don't know if they were aware then, but in any case they put social security at risk. "It's unknowing of their own free will," as they say...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u140	Mrs Onkelinx, Mrs Fonck wishes to reply to Mr Bogaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u141	Veuillez m'excuser, Madame Onkelinx. Mr Bogaert, I am impressed by the content of some of your remarks. Of course, we will agree to accept the need for balanced social security. But there is still a fundamental difference between us, which is how we achieve this goal. This task is a collective responsibility - not just the social partners - especially since this bill aims at returning to a management entirely by the State. Therefore, it is also the responsibility of the government. The problem is that, if social security is not balanced, you have foreseen, whatever the cause of the imbalance in social security, that it will have to be rebalanced through its own budget, thus cutting in pensions, health care or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u142	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u143	Yes and no! I read your colleague Mr. Van Rompuy on Facebook or on his blog. You organise the underfunding of social security yourself through the tax shift. With the reduction of social contributions, social security will be in the red. You know that! You're organizing it! I have no problem with reducing social contributions for employers, but then it must be expected that this will reduce the financing of the security fund all the more! When one is responsible, one sees the essential measures that must be maintained, the social net that must be preserved and how to obtain secure financing. If not, your model, your choice of company is clearly to say "what's worse for the weakest, not for those who don't have private health care insurance". Your logic is therefore profoundly different since, a priori, you are constantly digging the hole without taking your responsibilities in relation to the non-maintenance of the balance of social security. It's a little easy, let me say it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u144	Mr. President, I'm done. With this government, social security is no longer seen as a right for our citizens. However, it is a constitutional right that the State must guarantee under article 23 of the Constitution. For us, the payment of pensions, the payment of sickness, invalidity, unemployment benefits, reimbursement of medicines and access to health care must be guaranteed by the State. It can't be any other way! The rights of our fellow citizens cannot be of varying geometry and depend on the economic situation. In a rule of law, the State must fully meet its obligations, as our fellow citizens must respect their obligations! This fully justifies the fact that balance staffing is not subject to accountability factors that are not, as I said, a state disempowerment! Behind measures aimed at a goal announced by the minister, which we could pursue at the outset, since there are simplification measures on which we agree, are very different ambitions. These measures are undermining our social model. I believe that the government reserves the discretionary right to do what it wants with the future of social security, seriously undermining the fundamental principles that govern it and reducing the role of the social partners. You have, you can be proud of it, changed the paradigm and laid the foundations, I am convinced, of a split of our social security, which is yet the real cement of our country. For us, it's unbearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the financing of social security is an important aspect of the government's agreement. As early as 2014, it had planned to review this method of financing in order to continue to offer quality social protection to all our citizens. This reform was necessary for several reasons. First of all, and clearly, the sixth reform of the State had to be taken into account. More than EUR 11 billion of expenditure has left the federal social security budget since 2015, while revenue has remained in the budget. In addition, since 2014, there was no longer a legal basis for balance staffing. Alternative financing also needed to be simplified. For example, no fewer than 20 royal decrees were required to be able to pay the amounts budgeted each year. Of course, account had to be taken of the tax shift introduced by this government and the reductions in social contributions associated with it, and therefore alternative financing had to be provided to compensate for them. This tax shift is obviously the heart of the government's action: it will create jobs, generate new revenues for social security and cut spending.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u146	The tax shift is not funded. It has even defunded social security. The National Bank explains this in its reports. How do you position yourself? You are presenting the tax shift as one of the central elements of government policy, but you are well aware, at a time when we are talking about the financing of social security, that the tax shift has defunded social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u147	Mr Laaouej, I was just explaining that the tax shift creates jobs. This job generates news...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u148	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u149	No, it's not the back effects! Mr Laaouej, you make the questions and the answers, it's a little easy!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u150	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u151	Mrs Fonck, you even anticipate my answers! It's the divine spirit of the cdH!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u152	Three points were made by my colleague, Mr Laaouej. I won't come back. You're talking about the tax shift. It is not financed and it creates a deficit which will have to be borne very widely by the social beneficiaries. Firstly, you are talking about the employment effects of tax shift. That's quick to say. Mr Borsu tried to make you believe before you that the employment rate in Belgium is increasing. That is not true: since the beginning of the legislature, Belgium has fallen into the European peloton, moving away from the 71.5% target of the working population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u153	You were not present at the committee meeting on Tuesday morning!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u154	The employment rate, which is the indicator to be taken into account, decreases, not to mention the quality of the job created. Be specific about the effects of the shift tax, i.e. a government deficit and an employment rate that does not take off, let alone the quality of employment. You spoke much earlier – at that time, I already wanted to interrupt you, but I decided to leave you with the benefit of doubt – of quality social security. This is again a beautiful concept, Mr. Clarinval. I am voting for quality social security. I find this extraordinary. But what is quality social security? Is it the exclusion of young people from the benefit of integration allowances? Is it the abolition of similar periods at the time of the calculation of the pension? Is this the removal of time credit? Is it the abolition of the supplementary unemployment benefit for part-time workers who are often female workers? Are all of Minister Bacquelaine's pension reforms that, week after week, show their effects on the incomes of those who receive the lowest pensions? Is this your quality social security? How, tomorrow, will it be of superior quality with the blackout that you put on social security with this financing law? If you use concepts, be specific! Tax shift: job creation. Give us figures showing that the employment rate is rising! Quality social security. Tell us what is to be done about what you are doing to our most fragile fellow citizens with the linear economy measures you have already taken and that you are planning even more dangerous for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u155	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, Mr Gilkinet, this Tuesday morning in the Social Affairs Committee, where neither Mrs Fonck nor Mr Gilkinet were present, we heard a report showing that the tax shift had been positive, had created jobs. This report is from the European Commission. The government may be suspected of being biased, but this is the European Commission. On the other hand, no one will be able to deny the figures. Over 100,000 jobs have been created in recent years. The unemployment rate is decreasing significantly. The tax shift increases revenue and reduces spending. To deny it is simply to deny the obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u156	Mr Clarinval, I will resume the debate that I have already had with Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u157	You deny the creation of 100,000 jobs and you deny the reduction in unemployment, Mr Gilkinet? You deny the evidence! The figures are, however, correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u158	If there is a reduction in unemployment, it is because you exclude job seekers from unemployment benefits, starting with young people receiving the integration allowance, continuing with the people you send back to Mr Borsus' CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u159	That's not true! One in five members of the CPAS. The other four don't get involved, Mr. Gilkinet. The others find work. That is the truth! That's the numbers! That's what the FGTB says!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u160	This is not the net number of 100,000 jobs you are trying to sell week after week, it is the employment rate. The employment rate, on the basis of Eurostat figures, has decreased since the establishment of this government and Belgium, in the European peloton, in relation to the objective of having a maximum of the working population receiving employment and which can, through its contributions, naturally finance social security, is decreasing. These are the real indicators! What is more, compare the number of new jobs to the tax shift cost for public finances, you will realize that the price per job is absolutely extraordinary! You would give the non-market sector a quarter of the cost per job created through the tax shift, it would create four times more jobs! That's what he's been doing with the social maribel for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u161	These are subsidised jobs!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u162	Mr Clarinval, if you are referring to Europe's report, you have that full right, then you must do it correctly. That report says that there are indeed more jobs, but they cannot be linked to the tax shift. There is simply a better economic situation throughout Europe and there is an increase in the number of jobs in all EU Member States. Relatively, the number of jobs in Belgium increases much less than in our neighbouring countries. One of the statements that needs to be further investigated is that the government's interventions have reduced the purchasing power of many people, reducing domestic demand and reducing job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u163	Mr President, I do not want the debate to last longer than necessary, but there are a number of things that are clearly untrue here. The European Commission has said in its report that not only has the number of jobs increased by as many as 100 000 in two years. Even if you say that this is only for part-time jobs: if you convert it, it is 66 000 full-time jobs that have been created in two years. The forecasts for the following years add up to so much. You can continue to deny that, but these are discussions that lead nowhere. The European Commission has, after all, given that I was also told at that hearing that we need further reductions in the burden on labour. This was a first step and we need to go further along that road. The European Commission has said literally that we need to build even more flexibility into our labour market. I would like to have a discussion here, but I would prefer to stick to the truth. Another thing is that people say that the tax shift was not funded. Look at Article 5 of this bill: there are figures, with name and name, year by year, which make it clear that the costs of the tax shift, the reduced social contributions, are covered by this bill. That's what makes the net stable. That has not been the case so far and will now be the case. If it were not to come out, if it were not enough, Article 5 (2) also says that the figures can be adjusted year after year. Article 7 says that if VAT and withholding tax were not enough, money would still be raised from excise duties. This design is so final and all I hear is that the tax shift is not funded. That's obviously wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u164	Mr. Spooren, you must learn to listen. You must learn to listen! You never listen! I told him the number of jobs had increased. That's what I said here two minutes ago!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u165	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u166	You're just not listening! You just don't want to hear it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u167	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u168	You have had the floor, Mr Spoorten. Now Mrs De Coninck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u169	I just said that the relationship between the increase in the number of jobs and the tax shift has not been proven and that in the neighbouring countries, all jobs have increased, without tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u170	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u171	Please discuss in an orderly manner, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u172	We perform less than the other countries, while I don't know how many gifts we hand out! That is the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u173	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u174	Mr President, I would like to react. I've been arrested three times by Mr. Gilkinet. On the third call, I have to react. Let us first discuss the employment rate. I inform you of the latest findings of the Directorate-General for Statistics of the SPF Economy, confirmed by all the Belgian bodies concerned. I quote: "The employment rate of people between the ages of 20 and 64 increases by 0.5 percentage points in 2016; 67.7% is now the employment rate 2016. After five years of stabilization around 67.3%, this indicator increases by 0.5 percentage points."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u175	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u176	Mr Gilkinet, I listened patiently. Let me finish. You are right to say that this employment rate is still in the second half of the European ranking. That's absolutely true. But at the same time, note that, for the first time in 2016, the employment rate is going up for half a point. Mrs Fonck, in a very adventurous way, in front of the whole Parliament, said the opposite, but I quote: "As far as the over 55s are concerned, the employment rate of the 55-64s, which has continued to rise in recent years, is again rising in 2016." Yes, dear Mrs. Fonck! On the other hand, I mean this infinite debate: is it or is it not linked to the tax shift? I have some numbers and analyses for you. Do you know SD Worx? It is the largest social secretariat in the country. I think no one will dispute the seriousness of his analyses, often cited by all political families. What does SD Worx say in a recent delivery? I have all the coordinates, if you want them. SD Worx interviewed an extremely large panel of all affiliated companies and encrypted the link between results and tax shift. I quote: "7 % of companies say that it was only through tax shift that they made the commitment. 39% say that the tax shift has given the necessary boost to these commitments. The number of jobseekers fell below the 400,000 mark. That's the best rate in 15 years. The number of bankruptcies, 9,170, has been the lowest since 2012." You want some more? The number of self-employed mainly. Does anyone here know how many self-employed people there are in their main capacity each month?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u177	Á temps plaza?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u178	Full time. A principal independent is by definition full-time. There's more than 1,000 more a month. How many were there, for example, in 2013? 267. Here we have at least ten undisputed indicators that show that something important is happening in our country. Instead of denying it, instead of fighting it, it is your duty to support it. I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, to be tease for a second, that if a French president, François Hollande, had half of this result, he would now be in election campaign in France. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u179	Minister, you have given a lot of figures. I'll give you two. The first is taken from an OECD diagram. The employment rate of 55-64 year olds in 2016, between the worst and the best, Belgium is the fourth lowest. I persist and sign. You're the least good at it! [[Brouhahaha]] This shows how much more work remains to be done to increase the overall employment rate, but also the employment rate for the 55-64 age group. The second number. Minister, you're telling me about your employment rate at 67.7%. What is the goal you must achieve, which you have set yourself in your government agreement? This is an employment rate of 73%. If you really did as well as the other European countries, as well as the other OECD countries, this rate would now be much higher than 67.7%. Indeed, you benefit from an economic situation which is obviously much better than in previous years. While the economic situation at that time was not good, in Belgium there was a much better situation than in other European countries!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u180	There is now, but there are also prospects for the employment rate. The Federal Office of the Plan released its report this Tuesday. That's quite telling. The employment rate in 2020 will be 70% and in 2022 to 71.3%, which means that we are getting closer and closer to European standards and what we are being asked to do. All this is thanks to the action of the government and to the competitiveness that is being restored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u181	I wanted to say to Mr Borsus that, of course, employment is increasing, but it is increasing less than in other European countries, which means that the tax shift effect is counterproductive. It can even be seen that the employment created was higher than today when there was no government in Belgium. Above all, the most important question is what jobs this government creates. With regard to the independents, Mr Borsus, in today's Free Belgium, what does the Neutral Union for Independents (SNI) say? He says everything isn't as pink as Minister Willy Borsus claims. The Neutral Union for Independents has, in any case, a more pessimistic analysis of all these data. According to him, "the overall increase is mainly due to the increase in the number of self-employed women on a supplementary basis (+5.5%) and to the number of self-employed people who remain active after the pension (+5.8%)" because it is necessary to work as an independent person to survive with your pensions. "The total number of self-employed mainly increased by only 1%", regrets the NIS. At the level of employees, this is the same development. For a full-time job created, there are five precarious jobs created, which means that this government is in fact creating a precarization of work, quite simply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u182	Mr President, let us go back to the question that was originally asked. Mr Borsus's figures, but also the figures given by the European Commission on Tuesday morning, I stress, unfortunately in the absence of Mrs Fonck and Mr Gilkinet, that the tax shift is a source of job creation. In conclusion, before going to the next sentence, I would like to point out that the heart of our system is obviously to create employment to increase social contributions and reduce expenditure. That is what will simply save social security. Point on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u183	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u184	That was the fourth reason for the reform. The fifth reason, as stressed by the social partners, is that it was necessary to restore order in expenditure, by transferring a whole series of "cuckoo eggs" – these are actually devices that did not belong there – so that at some point they would be included in the mechanism of the state budget. It was also to meet this rather technical request. What are the objectives of the reform? There's four of them. The first objective is to improve financial and budgetary management, on the one hand, by providing for accountability mechanisms and, on the other hand, by setting up a Finance-Budget Committee responsible for regular monitoring of revenue and expenditure. The second objective of the reform is to have a more transparent, clearer, simpler and structurally funded system of social security. The third objective is to take into account the impact of population ageing by allowing the indexing of State intervention on the basis of an ageing coefficient linked to the effective retirement age. Finally, the fourth objective is to take account of the different views of the social partners. On the financing itself, in practice, there are three sources of financing, apart from personal and employer contributions, which mainly feed into overall management. The core of the financing remains social and employers' contributions. This is always the lion's share in the financing of social contributions. But there are three complementary sources of funding. The first is the traditional state endowment. It is a solidarity intervention, an intervention in the sustainable financing of solidarity expenditure. It will be indexed via the health index, as is currently done. And it will be able to increase through an ageing coefficient. There are two conditions for this. If economic growth is sufficient (at least 1.5% of GDP) and measures to curb the cost of ageing are put in place, particularly with regard to the increasing effective retirement age, then there may be an additional index to the health index. The ageing coefficient is a new system, an additional means of securing the financing of social security. The second is alternative financing. It allows for a limitation of State subsidies and compensates for the drop in employer contributions. This has already been discussed extensively in the introduction. Instead of taxing work, alternatives are sought to fill social security funds. There is thus a distinction between basic alternative financing, which is compensation for contribution reductions before the tax shift, and alternative financing tax shift, which is compensation for tax shift reductions. Here, Mr Laaouej is right, the feedback effects are taken into account in this calculation. Contrary to what has been said, alternative financing of the tax shift is incorporated into the law. Alternative sources of financing are limited to two. A reserve source of funding will be retained in the event that core sources of funding are not sufficient. Each year, it is a percentage that will be deducted from the VAT revenue and the household allowance. It can therefore be made clear that the tax burden on labour will be reduced and partly directed towards capital, among other things, since part of the social security revenue will be collected from the household allowance, which some people call for. It should be noted in passing that, through the provision of furniture, capital will therefore finance social security more than before. The third mechanism for the allocation of social security, in addition to contributions, is the transparent and accountable balance, the amount of which is defined each year and whose objective is to cover the deficit, without creating any bonuses. With this allocation, the government guarantees that, at the end of the fiscal year, social security is in budgetary balance, it must be said, contrary to what has been said for some time! What's new is accountability. The social partners must be responsible, as must the government. This is why the balance allocation will be fixed after examining whether each individual has done his or her work, after taking measures in terms of both revenue and expenditure, which have an impact on the financial balance of the security, and after planning for budgetary neutrality, without which additional measures will have to be taken. I also note that the 1/9th distribution key has been included in the law in order to strengthen and guarantee the long-term social status of the self-employed. That, in my view, is an essential contribution to this reform. Before concluding, I would nevertheless like to say a word about the role of the social partners, which has been mentioned many times. Disinformation must be stopped. Indeed, they will always fulfill their role. The competence of the Global Management Committee remains unchanged. Similarly, consultation is not weakened. In addition, a Finance-Budget Committee is set up to improve financial and budgetary management. It will be responsible for monitoring revenue and expenditure. It was clarified that there would be officials and experts from public social security institutions, who were under joint management. There will be no government or cabinet representatives. The aim is to remain focused on technical and numerical aspects. This is also a major step forward, since monthly monitoring of revenue and expenditure developments will be organised. Colleagues, in conclusion, our social protection must meet the challenge of an ageing population and the increasing costs it will entail in the future, both for the payment of pensions and for the care of health care. It is also a question of ensuring for the coming years its fundamental role, which is to support citizens who are confronted with an accident of life, such as the loss of a job or the occurrence of a disease. We therefore had to guarantee sustainable financing of the security in the context of global and joint management. At the same time, funding is still largely based on contributions from workers and employers. In order to sustain our social security, therefore, the priority remains to raise the employment rate - too low in Belgium, as was pointed out. Policies to support the development of economic activity, the creation of jobs and the improvement of the employment rate are therefore essential. This is the royal way to save our social security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u185	Mr President, Minister, Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what is in store is the third important draft law in a short space of time, which was also discussed in committee. After the wage bill and the law on workable and manoeuvrable work, we are now discussing the draft law on the reform of the financing of our social security, in particular the consolidation of financing. I would just like to point out that, since 2014, we no longer had a legal basis for a close balance in social security expenditure, i.e. no close balance for pensions, unemployment or sickness benefits. The draft reform of the financing of social security leaves nothing to chance in future. All expenditure for which there is a commitment, any benefit based on social security regulations, any pension, any social insurance for which people have contributed, will always be paid when the people are entitled to it. That is the essence of this bill. The guarantee we give to the people today is that our well-functioning social security system offers good social protection in the event of setbacks. The financing of this system will and will continue to be guaranteed for the future. That's the essence. This is more than what some ministers who have been responsible for this for years have been able to achieve in the past. I hear many views from the majority and opposition on concrete measures and on evolutions. We may differ on this, but that is not what this bill is about. This draft law deals with the new agreements we make on the flow of funding for social security, so that funding is guaranteed in the future. I therefore regret that misunderstandings have arisen from a number of points of view, often from genuine concern, at least that is what I hope to see on this crucial issue, and that sometimes things are misrepresented as to the content of the text before the vote. By the way, the social partners were also largely united on this bill. I would just like to point that out. This bill did not fall out of the sky. It has been thoroughly prepared, including in the management committees of social security, which, as you know, are under joint management and which include representatives of workers and employers and which are also present and debate with them. We have already debated this law extensively in committee, even with a second reading. It is good that we have had this debate and are having it again today, because the parliamentary debate also gives us the opportunity to correct and clarify a number of things. For example, points on which there may be different interpretations can be clarified more clearly. I would like to repeat once again the first clarity that this law creates by quoting the law: "At the end of the exercise, social security is in all cases in balance." In the meantime, from the parliamentary discussion we have already had, it may be very clear that, once the budget is drawn up and the budgetary control is behind us, with any additional revenue or savings measures taken, nothing new under the sun, this law guarantees a 100% guarantee that the remaining deficit will be covered by the dotation of the balance. There can no longer be any doubt about this on the basis of the texts before us today and the statement made by the ministers in our committee. In other words, this law lays down that every citizen in this country is entitled to what he is entitled to at all times, without any shortage or excess in social security. This is a good, clear, simple and transparent regulation that is made possible by the so-called balancing dose. First, all other identified sources of social security funding are addressed. These, of course, are, first of all, the social contributions of the people and employers, accounting for about 60% of the income or more than 40 billion that employers contribute through social security contributions. Secondly, there is the classic national allowance, which may be supplemented by the newly introduced ageing factor. In this context, I would ask the government to quickly address the royal decision that will determine the parameters for the significant increase in effective retirement age. This needs to be clarified quickly, because there needs to be a realistic view of the notions of retirement and the rise in retirement age, so that they meet social reality. The social partners are now working on the issue of retirement age and the linking of ordinary government donations. I understand that the initial discussion has shown that there are still shortcomings in the current measurement by the European and national institutions. When did someone quit? That should be cleared up. When a person is retired or is no longer available for the labour market, that is clear. But quid when one considers older long-term unemployed to be out of work, while they still have to be available for the labour market? It's one or the other. This needs to be clarified quickly, so that we can continue to work on the definition of the ageing factor in a proper way. Thirdly, in addition to the contributions and the public funding, there is the alternative financing through VAT, the withholding tax and a supplement to the excise duty on tobacco, which helps to finance social security. Here too, I would ask the government to closely monitor excise duties on tobacco as a reserve source. This third source should be the subject of an evaluation at the appropriate time, in the light of any remaining risks in the event of a systemic crisis. If necessary, this source should be expanded. I say this because, in determining the amount of alternative funding as a source of funding for social security, we will also take into account the payback effects, which will be calculated by the Planning Bureau. You explained in committee that you will seek advice from the Central Council for Business and the NAR. This is important. Indeed, some of the tax shift still needs to be compensated. The question is whether the additional expenditure on social security through the creation of tens of thousands of jobs has been taken into account. This, of course, has very positive effects, but it also causes expenditure, because people who work build up social security rights and will also be able to enjoy them. There are also additional patronage reductions. What about the reduction in income resulting from growing employment in exceptional regimes? What about the creation of new exception regimes such as flexi-jobs, student jobs, casual work, artists' statutes? What about new costs of the social security system, or new extralegal benefits such as ecocheques and meal cheques? Perhaps a new check will be found on which no contributions will be paid? Who knows? This reduction in social security income will also require additional compensation. This can therefore be seen in conjunction with the Central Council for Business, the NAR and the Planning Bureau. For both the self-employed and the workers' system, we call for an informed analysis of the alternative financing and for a possible adjustment of the reserve source if it proves that this reserve source is not sufficiently shock-resistant or if the income is insufficient. After these three sources of financing, the contributions, the contributions and the alternative financing, all social security expenditure will be guaranteed at the end of the journey, with the end of the balance-of-payments period, which in all cases will cover all expenditure for that year. The draft law that is to be adopted here today does not leave any doubt about this, and it guarantees that a residual deficit will always be covered by the balance. In addition, it will be extended beyond 2020. Of course, the measures are best placed in time and have been subject to an evaluation. Like a good family father who puts resources in something, it is normal to check whether the funds are being spent as efficiently as possible. Besides, we don't evaluate enough. We are not monitoring the measures taken and their effects. The needs are great in our current society, especially with the pressure of ageing. Each euro is therefore best used as efficiently as possible. Does such an evaluation, as some speakers have said here, mean that only one party should bear the responsibility? No, the response factors apply to the three actors responsible for the financing and management of social security, namely employees, employers and the public authorities. Considering structuralally the causes of more or less income or expenditure and the measures that are at the root of these issues shows good management both of the social partners, who are responsible for managing social security, and of the public authorities. This can only help us to achieve better the objective of good social protection for our citizens and, where necessary and in consultation, as the Minister indicated at the committee meeting. There is no doubt about that either. The Minister explained this well in committee. Both in the evaluation itself, in the reporting and in the decision on additional measures, both the social partners and the government will be involved and social agreements will be needed. Is it possible that adjustments are needed in areas where none of these three parties has any control? No. Allow me to give a small example from practice. No one will be held responsible for the fact that 10 000 pensioners are added each month, which in turn leads to higher expenditure. These are purely demographic developments that have nothing to do with policy. There is certainly no need to seek compensation for it, by anyone. Just a brief comment on the criticisms about the lack of funding for the tax shift. It may be necessary to comment on this point. We have done this on several occasions with our group. Revenue will have to follow to cover expenditure. This law provides that insufficient income from failing tax revenues, which jeopardise the financing of social security, must be corrected by the balancing measure. We therefore have every interest in ensuring that tax revenue is monitored, otherwise debt will be rebuilt and we will again tax the next generation. The latter cannot be the intention. Madam and Minister, I call on you, in addition to a positive anchoring of expenditure, to continue to work on sound income guarantees, taking into account the dynamics of the labour market and the contribution landscape. In this way, I believe that all the conditions for a sustainable future of our social security are fulfilled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u186	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the initial intention was to get this draft law adopted before the end of last calendar year, but it did not succeed. It was not possible because we as a majority, and I as chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, have been very supportive of the opposition. The opposition asked for hearings, a first reading, a second reading, amendments, Council of State, plenary and Council of State. In the end, we have now reached the last debate on an important draft law dealing with the core, the essence of our socio-economic model. Social security expenditure exceeded EUR 75 billion in 2015. It is, of course, about how we want to guarantee our social model in the future. This social model is based on the philosophy of redistribution of solidarity between workers and non-working people, redistribution between people who are healthy and those who are sick, redistribution between young people and the elderly. That is the system that we have developed here after the Second World War and on which we can be extremely proud. To maintain this redistribution, it is important to have sufficient economic support. I would like to repeat the legendary words of the late Willy De Clercq. When I was a young man, my father hammered it in on me. He said, "You don't build a social paradise on an economic graveyard." This bill must therefore be read together with all the other reforms that this government has implemented and implemented: pension reform, tax shift, labour market reform. They are all reforms to increase economic support and ensure that social security is and remains affordable. At the time, in a previous government, we even implemented reforms with those who are in opposition today. Examples include the limitation in the time of unemployment benefits for young people, the so-called integration allowance. We did that in the previous government. We must be honest, that has not gone smoothly, but we can now see the effects of that reform that came into full force in early 2015. The figures of the RVA published two weeks ago speak volumes. Half of the unemployed young people who lost their waiting allowance in 2016 because of that measure, due to the time limitation of the waiting payments, have found a job within six months. This means that people have been put into employment in the very short term of benefits. That could count as a job plan. Colleagues of CD&V and I am addressing Mr Bogaert in particular, who has already intervened several times in the name of his entire group, as always, or is that not so Mr Vercamer? Mr Vercamer is in doubt. Mr Bogaert, where is the courage to limit the other unemployment benefits for other people, for older people, for middle groups too over time? If it works for the young, why wouldn't it work for the other professions? Finally a little debate, I notice because we threatened to fall asleep.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u187	Mr Van Quickenborne, why are we against this? What does it solve to reduce unemployment over time? Which countries haven't yet? Belgium and Greece are then answered. So we are indeed in bad company, you might suggest. What is the reasoning that can be used? Suppose that's what they do, what does it do? In the previous government, with the help of the coalition partners, we decided on the degressivity of unemployment, so that at some point the aid converges with a benefit, such as a living wage, which one would get. Suppose that limitation is carried out in time, then nothing is won. And if one were to win anything, it would be the municipality that provides the support instead of the central social security. They don't solve anything. The two curves just come together, that's decided together. If the degressivity is accentuated even more strongly, the effect is even greater, but the only thing that would happen is to push it to the municipalities. Frankly, there is nothing left to push, because the difference between unemployment benefit and living wage is 0 and in some cases, depending on the family situation, it has even become negative. So it's not helping at all. I think this is a symbolic battle, a semantic battle that you are still engaged in, but in practice it has long been resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u188	Mr Van Quickenborne, are you starting to follow the N-VA line and do you think that people can't pay their bills before they find work? If you're on that line, I'd like to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u189	What line is that? Did I say that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u190	That they can't pay their bills first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u191	I call Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u192	Mr. Van Quickenborne, you have to argue intellectually honestly. Firstly, with the previous government, we have indeed done something about the benefits, which does not alter your argument that we, as socialist partners, never want to change anything and never want to take responsibility. We did. Secondly, if you look at the figures of the effect of the benefits, you will see that this does not seriously affect young people. Who's been hit hard by that? There were figures on this in the press last month. Married women or women with a partner who have worked for a small period of time and who are always entitled to an integration allowance for the rest of their years, are seriously affected. Thirdly, the philosophy of the benefit is not primarily about pennies. Integration benefits exist in almost no other European country. Nevertheless, we have clung to it because we know at least which young people are looking for work. If this is not done by means of an integration allowance, there is a great deal of hidden unemployment among young people. That is why we defended it. Why did we defend that these benefits should only be limited to three years? We defended this because, in the context of the state reform, we felt that the regions should also assume their responsibilities in terms of activation. Young people have a right to work and must be well supervised in their search for work. The activation benefit is a signal. For those who haven't had a job or haven't worked enough after three years, there's usually something going on. These young people had to be assisted much more intensively at regional level. If they did not, it could be a good thing that the Regions did not assume their responsibilities, because it is the federal government that pays the unemployment benefits from social security. So the story is much more complex than you say, namely: if the benefits fall out and therefore they have no income, they will start working. This is somewhat like the saying: If they are hungry, they will work. When you stand with your feet in reality, I would advise you to talk to the President of Kortrijk's OCMW, you will notice that there is much more going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the small debate we are having on the measure. Firstly, Mr Bogaert, I have great respect for you. Now, however, you sound like a Socialist by saying that the measure has a very high symbolic content. That's not right. That's obviously wrong. The measure has no symbolic content at all. She's having an effective effect. The numbers are here. You cannot contradict the figures of the RVA. Limiting unemployment benefits or youth benefits has led to more than half of young people finding a job after six months. What I ask is now also to do the same for people who are 30 years, 40 years or 50 years old. Also limit their benefit in time. You will see that they will not all fall back on the living wage, as you believe, but that an important part of them will start working. That's what we need in our country. These are incentives to get people to work, but also sanctions, if they do not want to work. That is why I believe that the lessons we have learned from this measure should also be extended to that other system of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u194	What's the difference between the two files? In one case, he has lost his integration allowance, which means that he is looking for work. [[I can imagine that.]] In the other case, there is no difference, because if you take away someone's unemployment benefit and they have exactly the same amount as a living wage, then I do not see exactly what the financial penalty is and why you would be looking for it. That's the difference between the two cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u195	With all sympathy, Mr Bogaert, but if a young person loses his integration allowance, he may also be entitled to the living wage. That's the system. In that sense, you cannot make that distinction. The reality is that if a benefit is cancelled, you should know that, as an entrepreneur, people simply go looking for alternatives. The important thing is that a large group of those people get back to work. That is what we were trying to achieve with this measure. The sp.a has defended and continues to defend this measure, for which congratulations. Fortunately, there is still a difference between the sp.a and the PS. There's not just misery in this country. Mrs De Coninck, you say that you have done so to ensure that the regions will also effectively activate young people. That is very correct, but should not the Regions also activate those other groups, namely the 30s, the 40s, the 50s and the 60s? They too must do so. Again, the argument that you are using is the perfect justification for limiting unemployment benefit for those other groups over time. Our country absolutely needs that. It is such a pity, I say to you as it is, that in this government only CD&V is a fundamental problem. That objection is aimed more at symbolism than at the fact that it would have an effect, just like in the pension discussion. The increase from 65 to 67 is not a symbolic discussion at all. That is an effective measure, as it has been.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u196	That measure could also prove that a lot of young people who did not get a job through the VDAB had to address the OCMW afterwards and indeed were better supervised there and found a job much faster. That's an equally good conclusion to this story. Mr Van Quickenborne, I am a little surprised that you constantly blame Mr Bogaert for symbolic discussions. You also have symbols. Shall we discuss tax systems? Then you have an equal symbol. We have just seen the symbol of the tax shift. I am in favour of just having a fair intellectual discussion on the basis of facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u197	You're asking for facts, Mrs. De Coninck. That brings me seamlessly to my second thesis. Why are we implementing these reforms? Some people think that I am personally or the government obsessed with reforms: reform to reform. The essence, however, is that we reform to make our country stronger. Did you get the results? Well, as far as job creation is concerned, under this government we are, of course, taking a nice course, with great thanks to the companies and the workers, but also, as Minister Borsus said, thanks to the efforts made by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition has been hating job creation for months. At first it was said that there were far too few jobs, until people heard that it was about 35,000 additional jobs in 2015 and 60,000 additional jobs in 2016. Then the opposition asked if those were all real jobs; they might have been government jobs? When it turned out that this is all about private jobs and that there is finally a decline in the number of jobs in the public sector. Finally, the opposition felt that not all of these private jobs were very high quality, that they were all part-time and interim jobs, and those are not real jobs. One may even wonder what kind of image one is giving when talking about an interimist, but that is not the debate today. Mrs De Coninck, you have said here that only a small minority of those 60,000 jobs are full-time jobs, and all the rest are part-time jobs, but what is now apparent? Now, the figures published by the RSZ today show that 60 990 jobs were created in the private sector in 2016, Mr Degroote. Mrs. De Coninck, you were wrong. I won't say you're lying, I never do, but you made a mistake, because 64 percent of those jobs are full-time jobs. Those are the figures the RSZ published today. That's the truth, that's the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u198	Mr Van Quickenborne, those figures were published today. It is difficult for you to blame me for not taking into account the reality of the figures published today in a speech a few months ago. You have to be a little honest. I have just said that jobs have indeed been added, but that this is mainly due to the economic situation. For the sake of clarity, even in the most difficult years of the banking crisis and afterwards, when we were in the government together, 20 000 jobs were created each year, so that is not so exceptional. You mustn't blow off the tower. Besides, we are, and Europe too, the worst pupil of all European countries in terms of job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u199	I see you're starting to admit that the government is creating jobs, that there are private jobs, that the majority of them are full-time jobs. Madam Secretary, I see that in that wall of defence, that line of defense of the opposition, when it comes to job creation, we are succeeding. In other words, the opposition can neither make wood nor arrows. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the reforms are coming into force and that the results are visible. That is the unmistakable reality in this country. That's what friend and enemy say about this government, so good work is being done in that sense. Madam Minister, I am telling you all this because these reforms must provide economic support in order to continue to finance social security. According to our party, this reform of social security funding is based on two important concepts. Firstly, security and, secondly, responsibility. Security, because this government, with both these ministers, guarantees for the first time that there is a long-term balance in social security. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past, social security has always been balanced on an ad hoc basis, year after year, without any clear vision. Today it is the case that we guarantee this balance in any budget formulation, budgetary control and multiannual planning. And that is good, because that proves this government's commitment to good, healthy social security. All those who accuse us of going on Anglo-Saxon tour, dismantling social security, dividing groups into those who are privately insured, and those who are publicly insured, make it absolute caricatures. On the contrary, what we are doing here is strengthening our social security systems in the long term. The first principle is certainty. We give that certainty, but we combine it with responsibility. The opposition is incredibly difficult with the fact that we are drawing the partners' attention to their responsibilities. For the sake of clarity, this is not just about the social partners, it is also about the government in the first place. Mrs. Onkelinx, you spoke about the six factors of accountability. I won't teach here which ones they are. However, the reality is that five of the six factors are entirely in the hands of the government. In other words, it is the government that must be responsible for keeping its social security budget in balance. Among other things, it concerns the need to combat social fraud and to finance social security. It is about volume effects and also about closing loopholes, which, according to the opposition, can only happen in taxation, because social security must not be allowed to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one area for which we ask the social partners to be responsible. Let us be honest, the social partners are part of our social system. We respect them and we regard them as high, except when it comes to files like the ecocheques, Mr Vercamer. For the first time, these social partners are also being reminded of their responsibilities. This means that if they conclude social agreements in the future, the invoice can no longer be sent afterwards to Parliament or to the citizens. This means that the social partners will have to be responsible and that they will have to ensure that any compromise they conclude is finally financed. That is the strength and the end of the reform. As Mr Spoorsen said, this will ensure that the balance between political and social partners is finally restored. Madam Secretary, to put it bluntly, it's nice to eat at a restaurant when someone else pays the bill. It is time for everyone to pay their bills, the social partners and the government. That is why, of course, we fully support this draft. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. Some say that we would put social security at risk. I referred to the Anglo-Saxon caricature, but I would like to translate what my good friend Mr Vercamer said into French. And I read it in French so you can understand it. On page 14, black on white: "Mr Frédéric, at the end of this exercise, social security will be in balance". At the end of this exercise, social security will in any case be in balance. Colleagues, is that not a commitment to the beautiful monument of our social security? What we're doing here is fundamental. We ensure the survival of social security, which we are proud of, through solid funding and robust reform. It's a shame our sympathetic Laurette Mitraillette isn't here anymore. You should have heard them when I asked her something. "This Van Quick, with its reforms, its reforms, its reforms". Well, ladies and gentlemen, don't be under any illusions: the reform train has started and, as long as this government is up to it, the train will stay and continue. It is only by reforming that our country will become stronger.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u200	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is extremely interesting. For the sake of clarity, the adjustment of social security through state reform, we have no problem with that. It has to be, that's obvious. Mr Van Quickenborne, adjustments, reforms, we have no problem with them. We have to look at what the future demands, and then we have to adapt our instruments. What we have difficulty with is the change of finalities and goals. I've just heard you preach passion very hard. I have been taught: farmer, watch your chickens. We have absolutely no problem discussing and implementing reforms. You have also started: solidarity is a very important value. I often hear many fellow Members here saying that the values of the Enlightenment are extremely important. Now, brotherhood, brotherhood is very important and that means solidarity. For the record, that value is the basic principle of our social security. This solidarity is also very typical for Western European countries, for European Member States. It means that everyone must be able to participate in our society, whether they are ill, unemployed or retired after a career. We help each other and everyone has to come along. In addition, we also stand for affordable, high-quality health care. Those who are following the discussions on the Obamacare in the United States today understand what that means. It has also been pointed out that social security must provide, above all, security. Nothing makes people so angry when an insurance company throws up that they are not insured for what they are doing, even if they have an insurance contract. That's what pisses people off. In this way a distrust is created and that comes back like a boomerang in the face. This applies to private insurance companies, but also to society. People want to be able to count on that certainty. We have already discussed a number of decisions here today, and Mrs Sonja Becq must always speak which undermines the security of the citizens. Think of the reduction of 20 000 pensions. I'm warning you about that. People here also pretend that social security is a mess. But the social security system, which was installed after the Second World War, is constantly adapted to the new needs of our society. Should there be more transparency and simplicity in this? I have no problem with that, as long as the finality is borne in mind. Mr Van Quickenborne, as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I have heard you say that you are now a Marxist, albeit referring to Ive Marx. I don't think you read all his pieces all the time. Last week, the latter wrote, among other things, that the reduction in purchasing power also reduces domestic demand and that fewer jobs can be created. I know you don't like hearing that. There's such a thing as selective perception in the human head and you've pushed that theorem aside. Moreover, social security is financed by employers and employees. People try to forget that sometimes. They are responsive to this. They have a responsibility for that. Everyone contributes to that. The government's doing a bit of catching up. There's a lot of alternative funding. Finally, in order to balance everything, there is the dotation of equilibrium. It's actually a stable system. If we look at social security over a period of 70 years, we do not see any major fluctuations. There are two factors which they cause to fluctuate: the economic situation, in the event of economic crises, and the population composition. If more older people have worked for their pensions, they will, of course, have to be called on more. What I have a big problem with is that the government works at two speeds. Many decisions are taken here for the benefit of the rich and many decisions are made here to the detriment of ordinary workers, ordinary people. A decision in favour of the rich is the tax shift. Of course we are not opposed to less tax on labour, but we think that the tax shift gives relatively little result. Moreover, what one gets less from the tax shift is not compensated. The National Bank has figures on this. In the long term, we will have a heavy bill for this, especially because you have misjudged the payback effects. The social security contribution on low wages, the tax on low wages, is almost zero. Jobs can be created in this way, but the payback effect remains low, except that unemployment benefits do not have to be paid. Then there's the flexi jobs and the catering business. What do they take care of, anyway? In addition to the many ascending accounts, catering is one of the main causes of rising inflation. In other words, the hospitality industry is raising prices very much, despite the fact that it is taking a lot of measures to make it more flexible for the sector. If inflation rises, it's a hold-up on all of us' savings. We are not sufficiently aware that this is a very important factor. Meanwhile, the government is cutting the incomes of people who are having a hard time. I am talking about pensions and unemployment benefits. I have just referred to the sentence 'if they are hungry, they will work'. They cut into all kinds of systems to make people work longer, despite the fact that they want to work longer because they will cost less on social security. I'm thinking about the runways for the elderly. I've heard a lot of men say they want to work a runway longer. However, this is no longer possible. There is a great debate about time-credit, including with the social partners. The necessary funds were also earmarked for this purpose. The social partners wanted to take responsibility for financing this system, but it is not going to happen. The government wants 20 million to be saved in this respect. When I see this practice, I would like to believe that you have arranged it incredibly well for the future, but I can only see signs that make me wonder if you believe it all yourself. Then I'll come to the reassignment. This has also been mentioned a few times. The aim is to finance the ageing population, but this will require an increase of 1.5 percent. There will be an ageing population, whether they want it or not. We do not know whether there will be growth. Precisely at the time when the need is highest, that is the insurance system, first one wants a growth of 1.5 %. Otherwise, 0 euros will be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u201	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u202	In addition? One might need that very much! Mr Vercamer, we are about the same age. I hope for you, the day you will be old and may need it, that it will all be as you propose it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u203	I just want to ask two brief questions. I would like to hear you talk about social security as an insurance system in which people rightly have expectations. If you consider it to be an insurance system, do you agree that we should strengthen the link between contributions and benefits, which is a basic principle of any insurance system, including a social insurance system? I remain in the same philosophy of an insurance system. Do you agree that the totality of the contributions, which is also a basic principle, should cover the totality of the benefits? Do you agree with those two principles when you talk about social security as an insurance system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u204	Mr Spooren, if you know me a little bit and have followed my career, you know that I have always brought the story of rights and duties at all levels where I have worked. You must admit that, for all kinds of reasons, a number of people may not be able to contribute genetically, as a result of an accident, but they are people for whom one should respect and who one should be able to give a decent life. It could be your son, your daughter or your mother who needs it at some point. We must also look at this openly, critically, honestly. If you ask me if I'm against profiteers, I say yes, I'm against it. I'm not just saying that. You can test my entire career on that. Then to your second question. That cannot be said in advance because there are also needs. That's politics. Those are priorities and choices. One thing I know for sure is that if people are prevented from participating in a society, they may not have a problem in the short term, but they will have a long-term problem. The same applies to education. We organize education, but does everyone get the same out of it? No. If one is sensible, if one has many competences, then one will benefit more from it than someone who does not. So one must also look objectively at what people can do. Soon a lot of people will be retired. That's a reality. That is what we need to do, which is a policy priority, to adapt to the situation. That's a choice. That's based on values.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u205	I would like to follow your reasoning, but that implies that you do not really consider social security as an insurance system. If this reasoning is followed, then the emphasis will be on solidarity rather than on social insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u206	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u207	I believe that both functions should be included in a social security system. What we are doing with this government is a little bit of balancing, a little bit more going to a social insurance system. That is not to say, abolishing solidarity but more monitoring the link between contributions and benefits. Of course there are people who really need it, but if we look at it at macro level, we have to go there. It is therefore necessary to revise a number of measures relating to periods treated as such in which they do not contribute but build up rights. That's one of the differences. Those differences may be there, but I would like to make a point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u208	Mr Spoorten, such matters cannot be calculated one-on-one. I'll probably work until the age of 64. I've never been unemployed and I've always contributed. Chances are, apart from my pension, I won't get that much back. However, I can have a child who needs it. How is that to be calculated? Is that calculated within the context of family solidarity? It's about the human image. I am assuming that I have also experienced this in my capacity as OCMW chairman that most people want to live as normal as possible. They want a job, a house, a good partner and kids. You shouldn't assume that people want a replacement income. They don't want to. They don't want that in the long run. This is where our society also has a responsibility. I was just talking about the benefits. It is true that this is also about pennies. For me, it's primarily about guiding and giving people opportunities, so that they have a good job for the rest of their lives. Alternative funding is needed, because many decisions have been taken, which means that contributions are no longer to be paid for certain jobs or at certain levels. So when the government decides on A, it must also decide on B. That is the consequence of that policy. At that point there is a very big problem with the tax shift. Responsability is an incredibly beautiful word, which is used very much. I wonder whether employers and trade unions were not responsible in the past. They pay a large part of the social security contributions. So why should they not be responsible for this? Nothing is more serious than what you're doing right now in the area of response. You hold someone responsible for something that he or she is not responsible for. Do you know what you're gonna do? That they say: 'Falsehood!' That they say, "Fuck you, because I can't help it!' In my view, you are organizing irresponsibility in the future with that decision. Let me give you an example. You are looking for measures for the long-term unemployed, because you want to save money in this area. Often a person becomes long-term unemployed because a number of early retirement systems have been discontinued. So the system of communicating vessels. Well, you'll have to provide very good guidance to get those people back active, which will cost you a lot of money. Moreover, I challenge you to seriously respond to employers in order to employ them. Do you know what's being organized? That people can be fired for medical reasons. That will be applied massively. And do you know where they're going? To social security. Who's responsible for that? Think carefully, because I do not want to burden Mrs Becq, who always has to be repaired. Mr Vercamer, you said that the social partners were absolutely involved and very happy. You may be living in a different world, but I'm still getting information to show that no union or health insurance institution is satisfied. It is quite an achievement to get a final agreement with all and all health insurance funds on what is going on here. I've never experienced that, although I've done my best. We have to do it. Evaluation is very important and I am in favour of it. I do not know if there is one government that has invested more in combating social fraud than the previous government, under Di Rupo. Do you know why? Because the socialists must be the first to apply social security and social benefits correctly. From that drive there has been a lot of investment in combating social fraud. Perhaps a number of people could also think about taxes. Precisely because tax systems are very important, we should invest well in the control of tax fraud. That would make a lot of people happier now who are often whining about it. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that what is ahead is an attempt to change things, things that need to be changed and adapted. None of that's a problem. We believe, however, that a number of elements have already been mentioned here by several Members, which is why I do not repeat them all. The system is very simple: first one calls for a major problem, after which a number of parties say they will remedy it. Then one actually does the opposite, one creates a system where wells are created by one's own decisions, after which one says that the system becomes priceless, while one could perfectly make other choices. The same applies to pensions. If everyone works for 42 years, if everyone has a career of 42 years, it will make a very strong contribution to social security. What did you do? You've led everyone by telling them to work for up to 67 years, and now everyone's blocking. That wasn't very smart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u209	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, there are founding texts that lead us towards more positive futures, and there is your text, a "de-founder", destructive text, which, while pretending to want to secure the future financing of social security, to modernise it and to strengthen it, will instead create the conditions for its weighting, the decrease in its capacity to intervene and, therefore, the decrease in its effectiveness in the fight against inequalities, in order to respond to situations of life, such as illness, the arrival of pensions after having worked for a long time, the absence of employment in the event of unemployment, the reimbursement of health care. Yes, you're aiming for balance. But what balance? For what social security? There are at least two ways to achieve balance. The first, which has traditionally founded our social security, is to adapt the means to the needs, to see the ageing of the population, the emergence of new diseases, the stress at work, the burn out that comes from it... The second way is that which you choose, the one that says: "This, you have a closed envelope, more closed, manage and you will repay tomorrow what you can." Society will be less supportive. It will also be less effective in enabling everyone to flourish. But it's okay, we'll be in balance. Instead of adjusting tomorrow's resources to meet the needs, the social partners will have to re-examine social security interventions, since expenditure will have to come back absolutely and whatever the consequences, in the budget. Not that you have to throw money out the windows; ecologists are against wastage! Not that we must not seriously manage social security! But, Mr Borsus, Mrs De Block, who can claim that, since its creation at the end of the Second World War, the social partners have mismanaged the most important heritage, political, economic, social, envied by many states in Europe, in the world? Who believes that social security needs are static? Do not the ageing of the population, the emergence of new diseases and the high unemployment rate call for a public response in the form of solidarity, supported by social contributions and alternative financing, which has existed for many years? You want to change paradigm. We, environmentalists, agree to change it but for a better one. You want to change it for a worse: we move from an effective system of social security, based on solidarity between the active and non-active, between those who have a better salary and those who do not, to a minimalist, Anglo-Saxon system, as Pascale Vielle of the UCL, specialist of social security, described very well during the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u210	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u211	Pascale Vielle explained that this minimalist system must be complemented by private pension insurance. Mr Quickenborne, Mr Bacquelaine, have a little of this agenda in mind: private insurance, which leads to an over-consumption of health care in hospitals and, therefore, to budget slippages, a less efficient, more expensive and less stable system. This government wants to take this step without announcing it, surreptitiously, quickly, like the decisions it has already taken, for example, the increase in career length. The project was tabled on Tuesday. We had asked about it to be able to hear from the social partners and academic personalities, but it was necessary, in half a day, on Friday, to have organised these hearings, without any real social debate on the future of our social security system. Accountability and accountability are not problematic words in themselves. We must be responsible managers. Every citizen must be responsible. But responsibility is also accompanied by taking into account the inequalities between citizens, between particular living situations, and by assuming its true responsibilities as regards the difficulties of financing social security. Indeed, if there is an imbalance in the social security budget today, it is everything but the responsibility of the social partners and the people who benefit from social security. This is the result of the reduction in social contributions that have been granted by billions by the different governments, by yours, but also by the previous ones. This was done without guarantees in terms of job creation and alternative financing. It is the para-salarial practices of companies, such as company cars, cafeteria plans, and now, in banks, paying salaries in virtual currency, such as units at BNP Paribas, that deprive social security of important revenues, under the complacent eye of governments. They do not react, except when they find that there is not enough social security revenue to ensure solidarity. This is also the result of the financial crisis of past years, a lack of regulation on the part of the public authorities and the greed of shareholders. It is also the objective increase in the need for social security, linked to the ageing of the population, the deterioration of working conditions, which lead to more and more workers being ill, but this increase is also due to the deterioration of living conditions and the deterioration of the environment, which lead us to more and more environmental diseases such as cancer. That's what we need to do! It is also, from a macro-economic point of view, the transfer of the creation of wealth from labour to capital; in the share of wealth created each year, Mr Borsus, the share of wages is only decreasing. It's a general trend. We need to adapt our social security financing system to this reality, rather than increasing spending and, therefore, intervention for those who need it. Finally, it is the absence of a sound alternative financing system for social security, guaranteed by a levy on capital income, of a review of its wage policies which harm the environment; I am thinking of company cars. It is also the absence – we have often called for it in the voice of our colleague Kristof Calvo – of a tax shift, of a reduction in the cost of labour, but strictly and completely offset by other recipes, which you have not done. You have created a deficit that tomorrow – that is the machiavelic side of your text – will have to be borne by the social partners and therefore by the people who benefit from social security. Rather than tackle the causes of this imbalance in the financing of social security, you are tackling its consequences. Future mechanisms foreseen in the government's project are problematic at different levels. They are first and foremost uncertain. The increase in the State subsidy linked to common ageing coefficient parameters does not provide sufficient guarantees in relation to the evolution of resources. Alternative financing is not dealt with in a balanced manner. There is no guarantee that contribution reductions will be fully offset by alternative tax revenues. Above all, future alternative financing is linked to criteria, which do not depend on the social partners who will have to bear the consequences, but rather on choices of government policies. The government decides. It doesn't work. It will be up to the social partners to take a political responsibility to reduce intervention and, behind it, to all people, women, children and the sick to bear the consequences. The government decides, the social partners assume, the recipients pay the note. It is not a system that we can approve. We've been fighting him for months. This government, Mr Borsus – as I recalled earlier, do not dislike you – has already achieved, in the field of social security, dark linear cuts in terms of interventions that strike the most fragile. Earlier, Minister Bacquelaine was once again taken in default of the consequences of his pension policies on people with long careers who, during their career, have been ill and who, according to a study by the Pension Office, can lose hundreds of euros per month with the new calculation mechanisms. Women, who are too often forced into part-time work, have seen a reduction in their salary supplements. As far as health care is concerned, Mrs De Block, despite the repeated commitments you have made, you have accepted savings that will lead even more of our citizens to postpone health care or not to take care of themselves, creating even higher future costs. It's called fake savings, cut-off savings. What you are planning and which will be the result of this new text on the financing of social security is that tomorrow these phenomena will be multiplied again. This time, the difference will simply be that you will put on the social partners the responsibility of the economies, where the government decides. Beyond a lack of vision, it is a clear lack of courage on the part of the government. All the blows made since the beginning of the legislature by the government go in the same direction: to make the consequences of the wrong budgetary choices that you have made budget after budget, the tax revenues announced by the Minister of Finance that never confirm themselves, the inability of the Minister and then the Minister of Budget to demand from this Minister of Finance and his party a real fight against tax fraud that costs us billions of euros every year, which costs every citizen thousands of euros in Belgium every year, to weaken social security and I am not even talking about social consultation. We are very far away, Mr Borsus, from the stability promised by the government. However, alternatives exist. Criticizing is one thing. It is important for the opposition to analyse and express itself but to propose, it is an obligation that ecologists systematically assume. So if you want a balanced social security tomorrow but not to the detriment of its beneficiaries, there are a lot of things to do, Mr Borsus, Mrs De Block. The best savings in health care, Mrs De Block, is to have fewer patients. Prevention is a competence of the Communities, you will answer me, but it is also a competence of the Federal State in relation to employment policies. We talked about it a few weeks ago, in parallel with your text on the work that can be done. Flexibility of work, longer careers without allowing tired or sick workers or in extreme situations to lift their feet, is to organize transfers from one budget to the other. There has been an increase in the numbers of recipients who receive replacement income because they are ill. There was a transfer from the pension budget to the disease. We have not resolved anything except that the well-being of our fellow citizens is clearly in decline. Reducing work stress or stress from non-work, developing preventive measures, better combating pollution, against these corporate cars that not only create traffic jams in our cities and harm our economy, but also cause emissions of fine particles that are problematic for health, it would be a good way to achieve interesting and intelligent savings on health care. Why not entrust the social partners with a reflection on this subject and imagine the organisation of society differently? Mr Borsus, the best economy in terms of unemployment insurance is to increase the number of active people on a real employment contract, with job security, with income that allows them to support themselves. How are we going to get there? By better sharing available working time. The ecologists propose the Tandem plan: to allow older workers to lift their feet, to gradually reduce their working time and to be replaced by young people who only ask for one thing, not to be excluded from the benefit of the integration allowances but to be able to have first work experience and gradually enter the labour market. Companies who wish to do so must be allowed to switch to a four-day week system. Where are the government's proposals in this regard? Developing a mechanism for reducing social contributions that focuses on the lowest wages, which you have not achieved, and which is strictly compensated for in terms of new revenues, which you have not done either, invest in the jobs of the future, have a real plan that aims at energy autonomy, the development of new green technologies – my colleague Vanden Burre asked the Prime Minister just now about the investment plan that we expect from the government and from all governments – are solutions to create jobs! And then, as I said, there must be strong alternative financing for social security, based on the income of capital. Over the years, the share of Belgian income generated by labour has steadily decreased in favour of those of capital, de facto concentrating wealth on bank accounts, shares or real estate assets of a minority, but also putting pressure on this financing of social security – which has so far relied mainly on professional contributions. Alternative financing of social security based on a fairer levy on capital income is the best way to achieve a fair and effective balance in the financing of pensions, health care, health insurance, unemployment insurance, family allowances and, ultimately, of all Belgians who benefit in one way or another from these interventions. All this is possible, Mr. Borsus and Mrs. De Block. This is a question of vision, of political will. Rather than organising the gradual dismantling of social security to replace it with a less efficient system, which will give a boost to the private sector and the benefits it will receive, it is necessary to set up its future funding in favour of a more shared prosperity among all our citizens. That's our hope. But, in this case, we will not vote for your very bad text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u212	Mr. Speaker, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating this evening has two different parts. The first, which we supported in committee and in favour of which we voted, concerns all the changes made necessary by the sixth reform of the State, but also several measures relating to the social partners. As I say right away, these provisions are positive and we voted on them in committee. I'm not going to sit there. I will deal immediately with the second part of your bill. It fundamentally changes the principles of social security. If I were to describe him in two words, I would talk about rupture and insecurity. The central question we have to ask ourselves is what model of social security we want for Belgium. Do we want to keep the principle of insurance as the cornerstone of social security? Do we want to guarantee the financing of social security in the light of the changes that will be necessary in any case for us, such as the ageing of the population? Finally, do we want to retain a central role for the social partners? To these three questions, I answer in the affirmative, but your majority choice is to answer them three times in the negative. You chose the break with the existing model. And you are organizing the weakening of social security. It is a voluntary, highly political choice. In essence, this government, as has been seen several times over the past two years, still regards social security as superfluous expenditure. It's just a charge, in your eyes. A terrible, infernal charge. For some parties of this majority, the social security budget is first of all a horror, but also a manna where we must seek the maximum amount of money. You decide to lock it, at the same time, to underfinance it. Too bad for the real needs that would no longer be covered and for those who could stay on the side of the road. So I was saying that insecurity was generated by your project. You have come here to glorify the fact that, finally, social security would be balanced. I have no problem with balancing social security. All right! The big question is how are you going to balance social security? Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you, your social security may be balanced, but it will certainly be amputated. On the guarantee of financing, which is an important aspect, you know very well that what is going to be imposed on us is an extension of life and that is so much better! But it is also a challenge, a major challenge that must be addressed, namely the ageing of the population. And you keep telling me, already in committee: "But yes, but yes, but yes. We will take into account the ageing of the population. Look, it's written." Yeah, that's right. It's written. However, you say that it will only be taken into account if two conditions are met. On the one hand, the effective retirement age must increase significantly. On the other hand, real GDP growth must reach at least 1.5%. These are two cumulative conditions and acknowledge, colleagues, that there is a terrible paradox in your reasoning. Indeed, you know as well as I do that it is when the circumstances and the economic situation are bad that we need a little extra boost in terms of social security. On the other hand, when the economic situation is better, social security is generally better. Moreover, if you really want to take into account the ageing of the population, then work together on what the social partners have proposed, namely to take account of the ageing of the population on an objective basis. This objective basis is determined annually by the Bureau of the Plan, through the Study Committee on Ageing. However, you refuse to take into account the ageing of the population on the basis of the objective elements of the Study Committee on Ageing. You simply refuse. This is the best proof, if it were still necessary, that the way in which you so-called take into account aging is purely frontal. In my opinion, that is what came out of one of your political negotiations, after which it was still necessary to pretend to write something about this part to save the face. We spoke earlier about another element of insecurity: the current non-financing of the tax shift. The new projections were released this week. I will not repeat here what the Chairman of the Finance Committee has said about what remains to be financed at the tax shift level. He does it much better than I do. The number of billions is significant. The consequences of this on the social security budget will be anything but trivial. I think you can agree with me on this. Madam Minister of Health, beyond this insecurity, there is also a budgetary frailty in the financing of health care. I have just spoken at length about the issue of the lengthening of life and the ageing of the population, which will in any case be imposed on us, in one way or another. But much less is said, in terms of health care, about the increased costs of innovation. Innovation of techniques, technology. The innovation of new medicines, especially those dealing with rare diseases, which are known to be particularly expensive. Innovation also of immunotherapy. Innovation still for everything about personalized medicine, and therefore the issues related to genetics. All of these issues will result in increased costs. But this could be a great opportunity to fight serious or rare diseases tomorrow. Through your budgetary decisions, and in particular through the last one, for the 2017 budget, you have foreshadowed what would be included in your social security bill. You yourself have set a standard of 1.5% health care; that was in your government agreement. It should be noted that the Planning Office had estimated the required requirements at 2.2 per cent in its forecast. In the end, in 2017, you planed and even reduced the standard of health care by placing it at 0.5%. In essence, it was only the foresight of this bill: we will draw on the health care and social security budget to manage and fill the budget slippage. I was talking about a balanced budget. As far as I'm concerned, I have no problem with wanting to hold the actors accountable. But these are multiple. Talking about the social partners' accountability when there is not a single word, ladies and gentlemen, about the government's accountability, for example, about its tax revenues; not a single word in this bill is meant to empower the government! You don't dare write it black on white: no! We prefer to write, I do not know how many times, throughout the bill, that we are going to empower the social partners. I don't have any problems with that, but I want to hold the government accountable... When we see your results for two years, especially with respect to tax revenues, we think that you could have at least had the courage to put this in your bill. Not only do you not clearly write accountability factors in the head of government, you also quote the six accountability criteria by announcing that the list is not exhaustive. If social security is not in balance, you are imposing a reduction in the social security budget, which would necessarily lead to the abolition or reduction of certain allowances, aids or the health care budget. So you're writing in this bill, black on white, that you could impose on people to leave people on the side of the road. In some budget decisions and in particular in 2017, you had already expressed this kind of proposal. That's why I'm not surprised at your text. I was also surprised by the way in which you decide to question the social partners in the management of social security. Rather than keeping a model in which there is strong co-management, you want to introduce a first step: a stateization of social security. Where the social partners had control of the situation, you decide to unblock the entire system installed and question the work done by your own Commissioners, the social partners and the financial monitoring carried out by the various operators. You are inventing a new Finance and Budget Committee, which we do not understand very well what else it will be able to do - except that it will be in the pure and hard name of the State - than this monitoring which was already carried out today by joint bodies, composed of the social partners but also of your commissaries of government. Yes, it is clearly a question of the social partners and a first step towards the stateisation of social security. This is still a good paradox for a right-wing government! It is also a good paradox, ladies and gentlemen, for those who say they are committed to social dialogue! On this bill, ladies and gentlemen, I have already tabled a whole series of amendments in committee that I am tabling again today, amendments that are balanced, not completely crazy and that I think are reasonable. They have been drafted with the social partners with the aim of trying to correct the most unacceptable aspects of your project. You make the choice of a social security that comes out weakened. You make the choice of a law that organizes its underfunding. You choose a model that will no longer be insurant. As far as we are concerned, at the CDH, we plead for the maintenance of a model of social security based on social solidarity as well as an assurancial logic, with rights, duties, but maintaining rights in an assurancial logic. Yes, tomorrow, it may concern us. Each of us or a member of our family can tomorrow be seriously ill or with a disability and need a strong social security model. For us, the law must clearly guarantee the financing of this model with a basis that must continue to be based on the social contributions paid by employers and insured persons, together with a supplement from the State, in order to face the challenges of ageing, to adapt to all innovations in health care and to compensate for the effects of tax shift, while maintaining close co-management with the social partners. That's the model I'm defending. This is clearly not the one advocated by the majority. Your choice is to dismantle social security, but even more so, to unravel a company project. We do not share this option, especially since the more inclusive a society is, the more successful it is at the individual level, but also at the collective level. I will allow myself to paraphrase Eric Van Rompuy in his post this week. We will not vote on your bill and, like him, I will say:not in my name!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u213	Mr. President, Mr. Van Rompuy seemed to want to intervene. You're not intervening, Mr. Van Rompuy? No?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u214	No, Mr. Van Hees! When you talk, it's not in my name.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u215	Mr President, I note that Mr. Van Rompuy is in good shape, despite the late hour. Colleagues, I won't be long. My colleague Raoul Hedebouw has already spoken extensively in committee. Nevertheless, I wanted to quote from a statement just sent by the CSC, the CGSLB, the FGTB, the Christian Mutualities and Solidaris. The title is "Social security becomes uncertain". "If Parliament comes to approve the reform of the financing of social security, workers will lose part of their income security. The new law no longer guarantees balanced and adequate funding of pensions, unemployment benefits and sickness benefits in the long run. We call on parliamentarians not to approve the law." And Raoul shares that view. The last sentence of the communiqué mentions: "And above all, the budgetary balance in this project is linked to a series of conditions implying that in the end, a balance will be achieved – as the majority says – but after having achieved savings and therefore, at a lower level." That is indeed one of the major problems of this bill. And let me remind you, colleagues, that the 2017 budget was drafted and voted at the end of 2016 taking into account this bill, which was not yet passed. He may be tonight, but he wasn't at the time. This poses a democratic problem of drawing up a budget on the basis of a bill that is not drafted. In what context does this project fit into? We have a government that has taken the security as its main target; the security is still largely a federal instrument of solidarity. It is understandable that this government, with very straight and very nationalist components, is both against the federal aspect and against the solidarity aspect of this instrument. This government is therefore carrying out three simultaneous attacks on social security. First, there are repeated budget cuts against all parts of social security (pension, unemployment, sickness). We discussed a new attack on pensions earlier. The second attack is the tax shift. It has definanced social security through reductions in employers' costs to the tune of EUR 4 billion. It's said it's funded, but we're looking in vain for full funding for this tax shift. Finally, there is this reform. Reform is certainly necessary but not in this way! Indeed, the government uses the need for reform to undermine the very social security system! With this project, the social partners are placed under supervision. Moreover, in the future, the social security budget will serve as an adjustment variable to enable the government to fill the deficits generated by its policy. The reforms envisaged are under the guise of ensuring the sustainability of our social protection system, but actually lead to its planned death. How can an efficient system be made viable if the revenues that feed it are constantly reduced? Although the government is speculating on hypothetical return effects of the reduction in contributions, they will never be able to compensate for the sharp fall in revenues resulting from this reduction. Instead of seeking to empower the social partners, who are held accountable for the consequences of the government's choices, it is the latter who should be faced with its responsibilities for the underfunding of social security; the government should be held accountable! Perhaps what should also be held accountable is the employer. Finally, we realize that gifts are unconditionally granted to the employer, through reductions in social contributions that definance the security, and that these gifts are finally offset by fixed percentages of tax revenues. On the one hand, we have an unconditional element. The bosses receive their gifts no matter what happens, whether they create jobs or not, whether they let go or not, whether they implement restructurings like at ING or Caterpillar or not! On the other hand, in the absence of tax revenues, the compensation of the gift does not happen. This bill therefore calls into question the fundamental principle of financing social security. I will quote once again the trade unions: "The mechanism of accountability included in the bill is in fact to anchor in the law a lever that will allow, during each budget discussion, to begin a debate on anti-social economies and to call into question the agreements concluded between the social partners". Instead of saving, making dark cuts in social security, it should be given more resources. What is needed is not to activate the social beneficiaries, but to activate the great fortunes, with a tax of the millionaires: 420 billion assets are held by 1% of the richest population in Belgium. They should be the ones to finance pensions, as well as multinationals, for example, medicine. There is the kiwi model that the PTB has been defending for years and whose death Minister Maggie De Block has decreed. It would, however, make it possible to finance health care in a fairly efficient manner. So I will not surprise you by saying that the PTB will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u216	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, as many speakers have said, it is not a bill to reform social security or to defend our social protection model; it is nothing more than a draft budget framework that aims to prepare for the dismantling or, at the very least, the weakening of a number of social security sectors. Indeed, if your majority government really wanted to save social security – which is a real social debate – it would dare more ambitious reforms such as, for example, a reflection on expanding the financing of its base. It would even dare reform the financing of the pension scheme. Instead, your majority made a very ideological choice. As others have said, you make social security and its financing a variable of budgetary adjustment, and nothing else. In short, you are gradually moving, but in a determined and certain way, towards the Anglo-Saxon model, which is a model for reducing social benefits. For the annual grant, a population ageing factor will be taken into account only if two conditions are met. First of all, if economic growth reaches 1.5% of GDP each year, which is far from being established in this period of time. Evidence of this is that for 2017, the forecast for growth will probably not exceed 1.4%. And you will also take into account the actual retirement age, which is expected to rise by six months a year. However, the actual retirement age does not increase with us. The Catholic University of Leuven and the University of Ghent have recently sounded the alarm. The limitations placed on the granting of the pre-pension scheme – and it is true that a reflection had to be made but it was made in a partial and partial way – cause the dismissal of older workers or slides towards sickness and disability insurance. Therefore, the condition of the effective retirement age carried forward by six months each year will also be difficult to achieve, which will allow you to consider that, therefore, the reality of ageing and the assumption of its cost by the social security budget must be obscured. However, the cost of ageing is well known at the budgetary level. Its evolution is regularly monitored by the Study Committee on Ageing. In 2016, it was further revised upwards from the 2015 forecast and, between 2015 and 2040, according to the Study Committee, it is expected to reach 2.9% of GDP. You know, therefore, that the mechanisms of limitation that you put in place will mean that the envelope will be insufficient to meet the need for this ageing of the population. But instead of reforming pension funding or reintroducing incentives for older people's work, which has been discussed at length, you choose to reduce the social security wing. And yet you claim that the budget will always be balanced because the balance is maintained. But when you read your bill clearly, balance staffing will be conditioned by a series of so-called accountability factors – the term is a very bold word to hide a much more sinister quality – that the government can almost freely appreciate depending on the circumstances. Moreover, the list of criteria for determining these accountability factors is not exhaustive, since your listing in Article 23 begins with the words "among other things". This will reduce balance staffing if your anti-fraud policy is not effective or if the tax shift does not deliver the expected effects, which is likely because you have not planned its full funding, or when your Finance colleagues are wrong in estimating tax revenues, which happens fairly regularly and has become a difficulty for this government. These factors, known as accountability, are so vaguely articulated in section 23 that the government will be able to talk about much of what is right for it to reduce the funding and the wings of social security. So you introduce a mechanism that allows you to charge for the addition by those who have not chosen the menu. The government will choose the menu by drawing up its government agreement, but it will determine the contribution of social security to the achievement of budgetary objectives. It is therefore all the insured persons who will have to pay for the imbalances and defaults. The social partners are being mistreated. Whether or not respect for the budgetary neutrality of the agreements reached between them will be taken into account. They will have to propose corrections. The Government reserves the right to implement agreements that they have entered into, in whole or in part, or to take compensatory measures. These social partners will be left out of the management of social security, even though this was a guarantee for their accountability in the management of social security and in its budgetary development, to the benefit of officials and experts. The Finance and Budget Committees that your project sets up, both within the ONSS and at INASTI, only reinforce the fears of the social partners for the future of consultation in the management of social security. The creation of a budget reserve is fragile. Indeed, you have chosen excise duties on tobacco as a source of funding. All the social partners have asked you to prefer another, broader base, i.e. professional discount, which would have been more prudent or, as a second choice, excise duty on energy and electrical products. It is paradoxical to retain this reserve as a source of funding that should be reduced if a health policy against smoking is finally to be carried out seriously in our country. The government has therefore reserved all the decision-making levers for assessing the needs of social security and its financing. These margins of manoeuvre, arbitrary, totally discretionary, left to the government, have been criticized by the Council of State. In the same way, the social partners are wary of the wording of these delegations and point out, for example, cases where the text provides that "the Council of Ministers may" – in the words of the legislative text – "do", which is still a vague legal formula, instead of asserting its specific obligations. This is for example the case in Article 6 which states that "if further reductions in social contributions are decided, the minimum and maximum percentages of alternative financing may be adjusted by a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers". Nor do we trust your majority government to determine the compensation for future reductions in social security contributions. I therefore regret once again, as I had already done in committee, that this draft does not say a word, not even in the explanatory memorandum, about the risk of poverty in our country. I recalled that we are still far from achieving the objectives set by the European Union and the United Nations in terms of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty or insecurity. Since the commission's work, other figures have been published just as worrying. Since reference has been made to studies by the Federal Office of the Plan, studies by the Federal Office of the Plan, including its latest report on indicators complementary to GDP, are sometimes completely read. This is a February document of this year. What does he teach us? That is the real concern and concern. This year, poverty indicators were broken down by quintile, specifically by thirteen income levels. Today, almost 22% of Belgians, or one in five Belgians, are in the lowest quintiles, i.e. in a situation of severe material deprivation. In particular, they cannot face unexpected expenses. Health indicators such as obesity, smoking, healthy life expectancy are equally worrying for the most disadvantaged. That is to say how much, in particular, the wage cuts that have been carried out in recent years and the restrictions on wage growth are seriously affecting not only the health of a whole part of the population, but its chances of not being dependent, tomorrow, on social security interventions. The percentage of households that had to cancel or postpone health care for financial reasons quadrupled between 2008 and 2014, rising to 2.1%, which I believe should cause concern to the Minister of Public Health. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that your bill is not a reform of social security to make it more effective in the face of rising poverty, but is only a budget proposal that will aim tomorrow to give the government the means to reduce social security benefits blindly, if not unjustly. We cannot accept it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u217	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that I will be brief. Madam and Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my leader of the Laurette Onkelinx Group has clearly denounced the harmful effects of your reform. Convinced that your text must be adapted and, naively, that it can still be, we have tabled amendments for which the opinion of the Council of State had been requested. It is clear from this opinion that, apart from some formal adjustments, nothing was stressed on the substance. This confirms that another policy is possible. It is a political choice: to ensure the sustainability or not of our social security. I have to introduce these amendments briefly. Because there are many of them, I will bring them together. The aim of the first package is to ensure that the tax shift is fully compensated and does not increase the deficit in the social security budget – in order to ensure full and legitimate compensation for the new measures to reduce social contributions. In this spirit, an amendment is intended to ensure that alternative financing does indeed follow the evolution of the cost of reductions in social contributions. The second group of amendments deals with alternative financing, which must compensate for contribution exemptions. The interlocutors we received at the hearings reiterated their observation that billions of euros are not covered by social security contributions. The purpose of our amendment is to make all the transparency on the sums concerned and to adapt the amounts of alternative financing so that they fully compensate for the loss of profits. The third set of amendments envisages, with the aim of guaranteeing this alternative financing, professional prepayment as a source of reserve. Several of our colleagues have talked about it. Indeed, this idea corresponds to the agreement reached by the social partners, which must be respected. They fear that the resources for excise duties on tobacco will not be sufficient and that there will be a shortfall in VAT revenues. In fact, some figures go in this direction. Fourthly, an amendment to ensure that the overrun of the health care budget target is offset by an increase in the balance. Our group leader explained all the risks if they didn't. Fifth, an amendment to give the Central Economic Council the opportunity to define a methodology and criteria for determining the ageing coefficient. Indeed, Madam Minister, your method, given the conditions laid down, is inadequate to this reality of aging and is, in a way, a decoy. Sixthly, an amendment to ensure that balance staffing is maintained after 2020. For if we believe that this balance staffing is necessary, and we are convinced that it is necessary, plan it indefinitely, and not for a fixed period of time. Above all, let us remove the accountability factors that the government has wanted to put in the law, which unfairly undermine the balance and which ultimately transfer your responsibility to the social partners, who are not responsible for most of the criteria laid down in this legislation. Finally, the last point concerns the Finance and Budget Committees that you are putting in place. We wish to delete them. Indeed, they create a real tutelage of the government over the management of social security. These are some important amendments, which make it possible to rebalance this text and avoid this paradigm shift. There's still time to get together, Madam and Mr. Ministers!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u218	Mr President, I would first like to thank the reporters, Mr Delizée and Mr Clarinval. I would also like to thank the services of the Chamber who remained in post during the long committee meetings. This reform of social security funding was necessary after the sixth state reform and after the tax shift. It has already been said, social security is very important for all citizens in our country. This reform came after an opinion from the social partners, an opinion which we have largely taken into account. The traditional pillars of the past remain: the dotation, the alternative funding, which is indeed becoming clearer and more transparent, and the dotation of balance, which we register in the law until the end of 2019, after which an evaluation and a possible extension can be carried out. I have heard a lot of talk about the six responsive factors, but I have to say that everyone has to take responsibility for them. So it is not just the social partners, as Mr Vercamer has clearly said, who are responding to it. I think it is only natural that decisions and policy responsibilities should also be taken. For the first time, we also take account of the ageing factor. We have had committee meetings on ageing for many years and the ageing factor is taken into account here. Discussions are already under way in the NAR and the Central Council for Business. Those people are going to advise us on what parameters we need to take into account. Then there is also a monitoring system, a monthly monitoring system, which has never been carried out by the Finance and Budget Committee, to make derailments visible immediately, after which global management and the government can be informed. With regard to health care, Mrs Fonck, it is true that we have a lot of new cases to pay back, and we do. We free up money by working cost-effectively for the rest. Working cost-effectively is not a swear word. It's possible. We have the reimbursement for hepatitis C medication. People heal from it. I think this is a good thing for them, but also for social security. We have already allocated 150 million more to the Cancer Plan, which was there but for which no money was provided. We have the reimbursement of new immunological medication for oncology disorders. We also immediately pay back medication to HIV-positive people who had to wait until they were sick. These are some of the many measures we are taking. Ladies and gentlemen, with this reform, the financing of our social security is guaranteed for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u219	Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the thanks extended to the rapporteur, to the staff of the House and to all those who have contributed to our debates. As you know, 60 to 70 per cent of social security income comes from contributions from workers, employers and the self-employed. This is a reform that has been under way since the beginning of the legislature. Whatever the controversy over the figures, they clearly show that we are on the right track. And when we go in the right direction, we must not only continue but accelerate the move. I heard we wouldn't use the aging coefficient. I give you an appointment, because I think the two criteria, which have been described as never being met in the past, have every chance of being met! In particular, this 0.5% growth rate. We have acted 0.4% but I believe in a 0.5 or 0.6% thanks to the work of our entrepreneurs and a number of social actors and to the reforms taken by the government. The second criterion is in the process of being met with regard to the later departure to the pension. In addition, I would like to focus on the aspect that concerns me as Minister of the Independents. Finally, there has been very little, if any, criticism of this aspect of the reform. On the contrary, I think it is widely appreciated, both by the representative organisations and by the speakers. As far as I am concerned, I do not think we will need the part of the balance allocation that is reserved for the self-employed regime for this year 2017. This is a further sign of the good health of the social security system of the self-employed. A large number of indicators still show how the 1.050 million self-employed people in our country account for an increasing share of economic activity. I hear and listen with great attention, in this rostrum, to the opposition announcing the worst, the most absolute disasters, the most unlikely social earthquakes. They always tell us the worst for the next day, for the next day and the next day. But by announcing the apocalypse every day, we end up being no longer credible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u220	Mr President, the last word is for parliamentarians. But there's such a emptiness! Have you noticed? We are radically changing the way social security is financed, weakening what is our common good. We were given barely five minutes of intervention by the Minister of Social Affairs. It's surreal! And then a minister comes to tell us that we must believe in it and that next year will bring us growth that will allow us to adapt the ageing coefficient. And if you have a new crisis, what are you going to do? Would it be possible for you to animate yourself in reality? You say, "It's all right!" Do you go to the field, to the men and women who for the moment suffer, question, worry about the future and are afraid? We know that turning to more populist movements is due to this fear, and this one, you don't even see it. It's "it's all right, Marquise!" I just want to say that this is a great disappointment for me. The two ministers, as we know, have been completely challenged by their partners, who do not have this desire to save social security. They take this lightly. I find it indecent!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u221	Mrs Onkelinx, you should know that life can sometimes say a lot by speaking little.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u222	Mr Van Quickenborne, if that were true, then perhaps the members of the government should have been silent. But the minister was pleased to say that he was confident that the two criteria for determining the amount of the annual grant would certainly be met in the years to come. Then they had to be removed. They're useless. If you have such certainty, what is the point of establishing criteria that would allow you to reduce the annual grant? So that's the confession that you're not sure what you're announcing. For the surplus, you are constantly announcing that there are job creations. There is always job creation in a country, except really in times of crisis and recession. But what is the trend compared to the average of the other European states? That's the real comparison. In absolute terms, your performance is not without comparison with the other countries of the European Union; and you are below the average of the other states, not only the European Union, but also the Eurozone. That's the truth. Statistics are provided by both national and international bodies. I have quoted from the study of the Planning Office, which reports on the increase in poverty. This is another effect of your policy. There are probably job creations today. As I said, job creation is not a new development. Let's be good. I will not criticise some of the government's measures, including reductions in social security contributions on certain jobs. This is a good measure that has undoubtedly supported job creation, as measures taken by the Regions have also helped create jobs. It should be stressed that there may have been policy convergences. Nevertheless, one of the major weaknesses of this government is that the labour incomes of many workers are declining. That is why the increase in poverty figures is worrying. This is the result of your tax policy and your wage policy. You are creating a handicap of economic growth in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u223	Minister, minister, basically, you are telling us that everything is fine, and that this text is not going to change anything. Don't worry good people, move around, there's nothing to see! I will make two comments: one on the lengthening of life and the ageing of the population, and the other on health. First, if everything went so well, if you were so sure to adapt to the aging population, as I explained earlier, you would not link it to conditions that will allow you to ignore it. And above all - I give you the text - you found yourself on an objective basis, with the Study Committee on Aging which provides the adjustments to be made every year. But you don't have the courage to do that. This government decides, under a great makeup, by placing a small sentence indicating that it will take into account the ageing of the population, not to have the courage to assume what, in any case, will prevail to us. In doing so, the benefits will of course be undermined. Secondly, I come to health. Madam Minister, I heard you very well. But come and play here your nice little music after having, in two years, made more than three billion euros of savings on health care, of which one billion in 2017, it is still inflated on your part! While you had announced that this would be very problematic, it is all the more daring to come here to glorify you. You are announcing an additional small drug, etc. But you decided to raise the price of a whole series of health care benefits. So it's not just about drugs. There are also other types of treatments, reimbursements which, however, are existential, including for serious diseases in children. I must remind you, Madam Minister, that unlike the countries around us, a whole series of treatments are still not available and reimbursed in Belgium. However, this is not a "small flu", but a serious disease. Minister, be careful not to go backwards in the health care budget. You know the breach of trust is total. I am thinking not only of patients, but also of healthcare providers. The path you have set out with this bill further worsens what you have already put in place for two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u224	Mr President, I had one last suggestion in terms of accountability, since about everyone has to take a bath and take their responsibility. I have found nothing in this draft about the resilience of the Regions and the Communities and their powers and to what extent they must make efforts to reduce or cofinance a number of phenomena, for all matters for which they are responsible. I am thinking, for example, of the mentoring and activation of the unemployed. This affects social security, but there is no mention of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u225	Mr President, to reassure Mr Borsus, I would like to add that the general criticisms we have expressed about the future financing of social security were also valid, and unfortunately, for the self-employed system. As for his last reflection on the people who would announce misfortunes that do not happen, I would like to encourage him and camp his feet more in the reality of the many families that are now in difficulty, the rate of child poverty, the number of people who carry out the necessary health care. If you try to make believe that the savings per billion you have imposed on social security are painless on the daily lives of the most fragile of us, it will be without us. In your system, there are few winners and many losers. And it will be even worse in the future if the majority vote on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u226	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u227	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2229/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2229/8) The draft law contains 48 articles. The bill has 48 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u228	· 162 – Catherine Fonck (2229/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u229	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u230	As a result of the appointment of Ms Hilde François as chairman of the Dutch Chamber of Auditors, the Chamber, pursuant to Article 1 of the Law of 29 October 1846 on the establishment of the Court of Auditors, should appoint a new councillor of the Dutch Chamber. Following the appointment of Mrs Hilde François as President of the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors, the Chamber must, pursuant to Article 1 of the Organic Law of the Court of Auditors of 29 October 1846, appoint a new adviser to the Dutch Chamber. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 16 February 2017, a call for candidates for the mandate of councillor to the Dutch Chamber of Auditors was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 February 2017. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 16 February 2017, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 21 February 2017 for the mandate of adviser to the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Wim François, Deputy Cabinet Director of the first President of the Court of Auditors; - Mr Marc Galle, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Jo Olivier, Deputy Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Vital Put, First Auditor Director at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Walter Schroons, Finance and Sport vessels in Mechelen; - Ms Karin Staes, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Laurent Werbrouck, Deputy Auditor at the Court of Auditors. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Wim François, Deputy Chief of Staff of the first President of the Court of Auditors; - Mr Marc Galle, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Jo Olivier, Deputy Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Vital Put, the first Director Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Walter Schroons, Finance and Sports Secretary in Mali: - Mrs Karin Staes, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Laurent Werbrouck, Deputy Auditor at the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 March 2017, the curriculum vitae of candidates will be delivered to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Rekenhof sub-committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 March 2017, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors will hold a hearing with the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u231	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 March 2017, I also propose the proposal for a resolution (Mrs Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke cs) calling for the continued existence of the rail network to be included in Infrabel's Multiannual Investment Plan 2017-2020, No. 2393/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u232	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 March 2017, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (MM. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke et al.) aiming to integrate the sustainability of the rail network into Infrabel's 2017-2020 multi-annual investment plan by strengthening capacity, n° 2393/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u233	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u234	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the harmonization of periods of study for the calculation of the pension, No. 2378/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the draft law on the harmonization of the consideration of periods of study for the calculation of pensions, No. 2378/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u235	Mr President, the Minister responsible and the Government are asking for urgent treatment. The urgency of the draft law is justified by the fact that the draft in the three pension systems aims to harmonise the taking into account of the diploma for the calculation of the pension and for the schemes of the employees and the self-employed gives the King the necessary permissions for the implementation of this harmonization. This harmonisation is an integral part of the pension reform and must therefore also address the challenges of budgetary costs. It is necessary that the reform enters into force by 1 June 2017 at the latest for the sake of budgetary tenders. That's why the government is asking for the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u236	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u237	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the financing of the Asbestos Fund, No. 2369/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law on the financing of the Asbestos Fund, No. 2369/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u238	Same motivation, Mr President. Here, too, the government is asking for urgent treatment because this must also take place as a matter of urgency on 1 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u239	Mr President, why does this text have to come into force on 1 June 2017? I assume that this is Bill No. 2378, which ends the bonus for years of study and will therefore reduce the pension of a whole range of public servants, including teachers. How is it urgent to reduce teachers' pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u240	Mr President, I would like to endorse what Mrs Onkelinx said. Moreover, I do not understand the government very well, because the draft law was adopted in the Council of Ministers on 24 February and the government did not forward it to the Chamber until 22 March. So it has remained for a month and then she asks for urgency here. I'd like to be a little bit shabby.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u241	Mr President, it is clear why the draft should be adopted as soon as possible. That is because it could enter into force on 1 June and because, of course, there are budgetary effects. The opposition constantly appeals to us to have our budget in order. In order to meet budgetary expectations, we urgently need to adopt the draft. That's the motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u242	We are voting in favour of the urgent motion for a resolution. 2369.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u243	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 77 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2221/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2221/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u244	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1427/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1427/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u245	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 126 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. It will be notified to the Commission. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This will be made known to the Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u246	Vote on Amendment No 162 by Catherine Fonck on Article 4. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 162 by Catherine Fonck to Article 4. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u247	My abstention is not a signal of distrust of Mrs Fonck. I agreed to pair up with colleague Richard Miller, who was absent for medical reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u248	Vote on Amendment No 155 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 5. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 155 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 5. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 44 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 130 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 5. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 130 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 5. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 163 by Catherine Fonck on Article 5. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 163 by Catherine Fonck to Article 5. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 141 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 6. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 141 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 6. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u249	Vote on Amendment No 164 by Catherine Fonck on Article 6. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 164 by Catherine Fonck to Article 6. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u250	Vote on Amendment No 132 by Georges Gilkinet cs on Article 6. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 132 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 6. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 142 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 6/1(n). (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 142 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 6/1(n). (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 133 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 7. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 133 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 7. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 156 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 7. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 156 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 7. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 165 by Catherine Fonck on article 7. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 165 by Catherine Fonck to Article 7. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 157 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 12. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 157 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 12. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u251	Vote on Amendment No 131 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 12. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 131 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 12. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 158 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 13. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 158 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 13. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 134 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 13. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 134 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 13. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 125 Total Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u252	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 146 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 13/1(n). (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 146 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 13/1(n). (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 166 by Catherine Fonck on Article 14. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 166 by Catherine Fonck to Article 14. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 44 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 135 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 14. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 135 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 14. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 159 of Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 14. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 159 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 14. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u253	Vote on Amendment No 148 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 16/1(n). (2229/9) Vote on amendment No 148 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 16/1(n). (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes [[37]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u254	Vote on Amendment No 167 by Catherine Fonck on Article 20. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 167 by Catherine Fonck to Article 20. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 136 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 20. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 136 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 20. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 149 of Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 20. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 149 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 20. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 160 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 21. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 160 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 21. (2229/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u255	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 168 by Catherine Fonck on Article 21. (2229/11) Vote on amendment 168 by Catherine Fonck to Article 21. (2229/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u256	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 161 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 22. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 161 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 22. (2229/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u257	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 169 by Catherine Fonck on article 22. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 169 by Catherine Fonck to Article 22. (2229/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u258	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 152 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 23. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 152 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 23. (2229/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u259	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 170 by Catherine Fonck on article 23. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 170 by Catherine Fonck to Article 23. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[16]] Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 138 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 23. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 138 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 23. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 153 of Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 24. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 153 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 24. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 171 by Catherine Fonck on article 24. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 171 by Catherine Fonck to Article 24. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 140 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 24. (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 140 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 24. (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[46]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 154 of Laurette Onkelinx for the deletion of Chapter 5 (Articles 25 to 29). (2229/9) Vote on Amendment No 154 by Laurette Onkelinx to delete Chapter V (Articles 25 to 29). (2229/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 25 and 26 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 25 and 26 were adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 172 by Catherine Fonck on article 27. (2229/11) Vote on amendment No 172 by Catherine Fonck to Article 27. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 75 Non Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 27 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 173 by Catherine Fonck on article 28. (2229/11) Vote on Amendment No 173 by Catherine Fonck to Article 28. (2229/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Rule 29 has been adopted. Article 29 was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to someone who is going through his last plenary session today, namely Mr Willy Rage, head of the doorkeepers. [[Applause]] Mr Ragé, allow me to say that the applause of the Chamber shows that you are, first of all, a figurehead of this assembly. Secondly, we wish you all the best. And, third, because all good things consist of three, it is at the same time a tribute to the team that you have led all these years with great understanding. Thank you for your services. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u260	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 76 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2229/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2229/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-30-54-plenair-ip163x.u261	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 20 April 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 20 April 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you all an invigorating holiday. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 20 April 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 20 April 2017, at 2.15 p.m.
