tbmm-2014-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 1st Unification of the Fifth Legislature of the 24th Legislature of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Congressmans, I wish the fifth year of the 24th term to be a good, healthy, and successful year for our country, our nation and all of us. At the very beginning of my words, the first President of our great Assembly, the founder of our republic, Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, head of our House, all of our states and political men, our saints, our martyrs, our heroic veterans, and our members of the House, thank you and thank you very much. And to our citizens who recently lost their lives in Soma, and other businesses, I wish them God's mercy, and once again my condolences to their families. Congressmans, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the founding will of our republic, representing our nation for ninety-four years, a sacred place in which the nation's will has been at its highest since its establishment. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the center of democratic legitimacy; it has the biggest share of its most important achievements, especially in independence, republic, Republic of Turkey and democracy. Whatever we have today as countries and nations, this includes the Turkish Grand National Assembly's efforts, great zeal and work on all forms of appreciation. It is this Parliament that has the honor of the hard work, legal regulations, and radical reforms that St. Ataturk has shown to us as a target for modern civilization. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the heart of our democracy, the most fundamental and indispensable institution to run and run our national struggle because it is the Veteran Assembly without precedent in the world. For all of this and for other reasons, to serve under this sacred roof, to be a member is the greatest happiness for all of us, the most precious legacy we can leave to our children. Our honor is great, but our responsibility for it is great and heavy. To date, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has endeavored to do its part, with this honor, with this pride, with a deep sense of responsibility. We've had our share of mistakes, we've had our share of mistakes, we've had our regrets, we wish we hadn't, but we've worked day and night to pay off our debt to our people. The fifth Year of Law is the last year of this period, and we will work with the same zeal. In the 24th Legislature, 973 laws proposed 2.372 laws, 443, and 77 parliamentary decrees were passed. In the fourth year of the Law, 1,474 verbal question motions were issued, 65 have been answered, and the written question motion is 22.063, and 9.470 have been answered. The number of parliamentary research motions is 810, 24 motions have been adopted. 10 general talks, 9 genera, were put into presidential processing during this period. Eight parliamentary investigation motions have been submitted and four have been rejected, one has been accepted, and one motion has not been sufficient, so it has fallen and been withdrawn. The General Assembly has combined 138 hours in the last year and worked 795 hours. In this last year of legislation, he will also discuss issues on his agenda, and will continue to protect our nation's laws, rights and interests in all its activities inside and out, using the opportunities of parliamentary diplomacy, most effectively. Dear MPs, we all know and believe that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the most legitimate platform and the most important collateral for the discussion, the seeking of solutions, and the resolving of all our problems. It is our duty and responsibility to maintain its value, to uphold its reputation. When we look at our close geography, we'll know what we mean. Next to us are crimes against humanity, crimes against humanity; there are all sorts of atrocities, brutality, madness, and murder. Terror organizations, which we have not heard of, carry out the most bloody acts in the history of mankind, and continue to shed blood in Telafer, in Kerkuk, in Aynel Arab, in Kobani, and in Aleppo, in many other places; women, children, old men, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, Millions of people are experiencing a human drama that has been displaced from their homeland. We curse them without distinction, we condemn them with hate. The international community and its institutions, the United Nations, in the first place, must make a very urgent decision. That's what these organizations are for, for these days. This blood shouldn't flow any more, these people shouldn't suffer any more; no matter what anyone does, the next hundred thousand should do it quickly before they lose their lives. The fires of corruption must be extinguished. Those who perform this festival are neither human nor Muslim. Congressmans, we're going through a very difficult and difficult time. Thankfully, our country is a peaceful haven in the Caucasus, Ukraine, the Middle East, all around us in this circle of blood and fire. It is up to us to maintain this peace. Let's appreciate each other more as individuals, let's not look for one of us in the absence of the other. Of course, we have our differences, and that's true, but these differences don't interfere with respect, peace and brotherhood. Despite all the challenges and trials that have been put before us, we've become one thousand, one hundred thousand, we've become millions, and we've become a great nation, and together we've built a pure culture and civilization. We know better than to build a wall with a stone. The words of our nation's deep knowledge, which have become wisdom and the practice of life, mean much to all of us: One sip of water on our shoulders and seven steps of road. Our evil one is better than the good one. As the cloud passes, the air gets damp, the air in our region is moist enough. We are in the midst of the earth, where raindrops of blood are poured instead, and the clouds of disaster and ignorance cover the whole sky, and beyond chaos, there is an apocalypse. That's why we need each other more than ever. We need to understand each other better, we need to talk, we need dialogue, we need solidarity, we need solidarity, we need brotherhood, and as it is expressed in the wisdom of the people, the living is almost there, and where there is no resurrection, there is no state. This is the land of all of us forever, and the state of the Republic of Turkey will live until the end of time. May God not destroy our people and our realms, lest our body be exalted and our unity be corrupted. With these thoughts and wishes, he wishes the new year of life to be a peaceful and successful year of work, and I now congratulate you and our beloved nation on the holiday. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Congressmans, Mr. President, the General Assembly Hall is now in session to address the opening of the new year of legislation. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[AK PARTI's standing ovations from CHP, MPP and HDP's ranks]] Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-01sit01spe0002par0027	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute your delegation with my most heartfelt conversations at the opening of the 24th Year of the Fifth Amendment year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Fifth Legislative Year calls for good for our country, our nation, our democracy; I wish all lawmakers, all political parties all success in this new era, in the work of Parliament. Following the general elections held on June 12, 2011, during the Fourth Year of Legislature, Parliament performed a truly selfless, zealous, and extremely successful performance. And I want to thank each and every one of you for enforcing the very important plans and proposals that our country and our nation need as we begin this final year of legislation. Mr. President, I'm excited to address you as the first elected President of the Republic of Turkey on this stand, by the votes of the people. Each time, this great nation went to the polls with great dignity, and put an end to all matters, and made their great triumphs and insights in the chest every time. Here, once again, I thank the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the Constitutional amendment in 2007, which allowed its presidents to be elected directly by the people. Of course, for once, I'd like to thank our beloved nation from here, from the nation's bench, who went to the polls on August 10th and set up the president for the first time in the polls. Twenty-eight days later, the nation of the Republic of Turkey, which will fill ninety-one years, has reached a democratic maturity that we can all be proud of, and right behind us, the government is a unconditional nation. The president's direct election by the public has eliminated debates in almost every presidential election in the past. A elected president and elected government will continue to produce services for Turkey in harmony and coordination as they are now. And this democratic level that we have reached is certainly a source of both pride and hope for our country and our nation. Turkey has witnessed only three elections in the past three years; the June 12th 2011 elections, March 30th and August 10th elections, with great enthusiasm, with the democratic maturity of the nation, were reflected in the chest in a very transparent way. Today, there is no longer any room for discussion: the Ark is the solution to every issue. The people's decision is based on every decision within the contract. We thought Turkey was the only means to shape the Grand National Assembly. The only means to appreciate and appoint the governments of the Republic of Turkey are, in the same way, the chest. Every road, except the polls, is illegitimate, to set course for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to appoint the governments of the Republic of Turkey. The way you think in Turkey is clear for anyone who wants to choose and be elected. In view of our multi-party political history, any political opinion that strives, works, struggles long-term, can express itself to the nation will be seen as represented by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, where every political party emerges from the polls. In particular, the choices made in recent years have shown very clearly that the nation is the strongest judge who can distinguish between good and evil from right and wrong. Our people are faithful. Our nation never, ever needs guardians, guardians. The people don't know. The people don't understand. The age of those who put their trust guardians and guardians in such an approach has been closed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Just as people don't accept guardians and guardians for themselves, politics has now become an inevitable necessity to free itself entirely from custody. A sense of politics in the custody of violence, weapons, power centers is a political concept that does not coincide with the direction of the new Turkey. Politics must be as brave and courageous as this saint nation, and it must eliminate all the pressures, all the mechanisms of custody over it. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the solution of all issues of nation and country, and the solution tool is politics. To seek a solution to problems, outside politics, outside the House, is a clear disrespect to the national will. No doubt the media, NGOs, unions, associations, foundations are essential elements of democracy. Again, without a doubt, demonstrations and protests under the Constitution and the law, criticisms on every basis are essential to democracy. However, these mechanisms can't capture politics, they can't ignore politics, they can't see themselves above the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the national will, the Ark. If politics submits to violence that wants to dominate the streets and drown the national will, it will bless and encourage violence, it will first deny its existence. When you can solve problems in Congress, politics, or the nation by going to the polls, those who seek help from terrorism, violence, street actions, non-political power centers will become a failure to ignore themselves. In fact, Turkey has been through this in the past, and those who have given up hope of the polls have given up hope of street action, inviting non-political institutions to their so-called duty. We've all seen, lived, and experienced the consequences. In search of solutions outside politics, our country has paid very high prices and left heavy debris that had been billed for decades. In the face of acts of terror and violence that threaten politics and national will, the politician must stop first, first, and first, the politicians and political parties must oppose it. A policy that praises and supports networks that commit murder with a gun in their hands is a policy that denies itself. A policy that fuels violence by giving stones into the hands of young children is no doubt a policy that represents weakness. A policy that throws stones at the security forces who lay down their lives for the peace and security of the country is actually a sense of policy that shrinks itself. Similarly, a policy that encourages street actions, vandalism, destruction, defamation, throwing stones at police in front of activists, insulting police is a policy that denies itself, actually demonstrates desperation. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] I must repeat that the solution and decision of every issue in Turkey is the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the means of solutions and decision-making is politics. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our political parties and our individual MPs are obliged to maintain the dignity of Parliament and politics. I believe that from now on, the reputation of Congress and politics will be maintained at the highest level. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs have shown our recent political history and experience that democracy and the most broad sense of freedom have not been the mechanisms that threaten the existence and unity of Turkey, but rather the mechanisms that strengthen Turkey. Turkey boldly went over all its old fears, defiantly lifted bans and restrictions, thus raising its economy and building social peace and giving it credit for its reputation in the world. In particular, every ban, every restrictions that has been lifted over the past 12 years has laid the groundwork for increasing peace in society. Every step towards democratization has brought different parts of society closer together. Every delicate issue that is brave has strengthened the unity, integrity, brotherhood of 77 million. As the standards of democracy rise, as the freedom zones expand, as our brotherhood gains power, our economy has grown parallel to it, thus Turkey has achieved an average five per cent annual growth rate in 12 years. Turkey has no level to reach with fear, hesitation, hesitation, and no goal to catch. The scenarios, such as division, disintegration, internal conflict, have been seen in our recent history as irrational and meaningless fears. Speaking in different languages and dialects, broadcasting, propaganda has been opened, Turkey has not been divided, it has been stronger. The introduction of different languages and dialects in universities, secondary schools and upper secondary schools, private schools, courses has been opened, Turkey has not been broken down, has become more integrated. Respect for cultural identities has made Turkey a more peaceful country. As the obstacles to the expression of the beliefs and the establishment of the meetings were lifted, Turkey was raised to a happier, happier, more confident country. The removal of the ban on the headscarf, which has been inexorably pointless for decades, has led to the normalisation of society, which, as claimed, did not cause influence in society. The liberalisation of the headscarf at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, public workplaces, universities, and now secondary school institutions has opened the way for freedoms, leading Turkey to normal and of course. Freedom of speech and freedom of press in Turkey have found a solid ground to be unacceptable to the past. Recently, the Internet has become an integral part of daily life and education, thanks to tablet computers distributed to our students that cover 780,000 square kilometers of Turkey. Of course, the abuse of the media, freedom of the press, and the Internet, to reduce the freedom of others, to violate personal rights, to threaten our national security is not a nonresponsive situation. In this regard, there is nothing more natural than having Turkey have the provisions of developed democratic countries, but it is unfair that our country should be targeted in these areas under some national and international smear campaigns. I would like to remind you that 16 journalists were killed in Israel's last Gaza attack, international media employees were publicly pressured, and even some media members were punished. The killing of 16 journalists, pressuring journalists, is not enough response from the world, while Turkey's continued exposure to unfair criticism from inside and outside is a subject that must be considered. As long as others don't narrow their freedoms, they're not the instrument of violence, and they're not a threat to our national security, no matter what anyone says, freedom of any kind must and will be met with our nation in the broadest sense. I would like to stress again that the solution process is vital to Turkey's future, brotherhood and democracy. It is my greatest desire that the process of resolution, which I am an architect of, despite any political risk, be carried back to these days with determination, with determination, with courage, with patience, with patience. Our beloved nation is behind the process of solutions. No one, no mother, no father wants their children to be separated from life at a young age. Let not my Lord cause any man to live: no mother, no father, nor son shall want to suffer, nor shall any man be pleased with it. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] In spite of some exceptional sabotage attempts, the violence that has been going on for 30 years has entered a different place in the last two years. We are now experiencing a process in which parents, whose children are soldiers and police, breathe a comfortable breath, whose children are abducted into the mountains, are now faced with the courage of parents to express their objections. No doubt there are some who are uncomfortable with this beautiful process. There are also those in Turkey who can't digest peace, peace, brotherhood, free the economy from its shackles and take flight, and want to disrupt it. We've always been sensitive to these blood and rant lobbys, and from now on, we'll all continue to be sensitive. The recent attempts to provoke the solution process will only harm the owners of these initiatives. In particular, our citizens who have been breathing the peace of mind for two years, I believe, will not give bonuses to these attempts of provocation, they will stand firm in the face of sabotage. Standing in the way of Turkey's decisive progress towards a solution is paddling to the current. It is also a historical responsibility for all political parties within and outside the Parliament to support the process as history flows decisively towards the solution. Any anxiety, anxiety, hesitation, free of charge under this roof, but in courtesy, tolerance and empathy, it must be discussed, negotiated. The final goal in the solution process is to exclude all forms of violence, to bring politics into play as a means of solution. Our political parties need to distance themselves from violence, avoid preconceived and biased, put the undecided aside, and struggle to contribute to the solution. It must not be forgotten that the blood that flows is the blood of our young people, and to stop it is the responsibility of every section and everyone, especially this great Assembly. Dear MPs, I've expressed the spirit of April 23, 1920 on every platform, including this stand of the nation. In fact, the new Turkey is Turkey, which reinvented the essence and spirit of April 23, 1920, and reinvented the freedom, color and diversity of the first Parliament. New Turkey is a constructive, guiding concept that allows us to build strong bridges between the past, the present, and the future. As New Turkey points to a continuity in terms of commitment to our civilization and reconciliation with our historical geography, it has a dissolution in terms of looking at society and politics. For years, those who have been replaced in this society have been involved in democratic, political processes and have been able to deliver their demands to politics. Today, what some see as polarization is nothing more than the pluralistic expression of identity. After that, Turkey can only compromise in pluralism; a compromise cannot be reached by declaring certain social demands illegitimate, pushing them outside the grounds of legitimacy. New Turkey is a pluralist Turkey, and politics is responsible for representing this pluralistic social structure. I've said before, there is no disparity in the new Turkey, and all citizens are equal. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Naturally, there is resistance to the new Turkey. It is clear that resistance to Turkey's new sociology does not stand a chance of success, but politics must stand firm here. Resilience to the new Turkey is carried out through chronic issues from the old Turkey, which are based on the former Turkey. Custody is a feature of the old Turkey, a feature, but in a new form, it intends to refer to the new Turkey. The parallel state wants to destroy legitimate democratic politics by using public power, without the authority of political representation and political legitimacy. The parallel structure is a desire to shape politics using a state device, a typical bureaucratic custody initiative in this sense. Politics can't compromise this custody initiative, it denies its existence as soon as it does. The parallel structure within the state has been politically convicted. The last two elections Turkey has experienced are, in a sense, a political liquidation of parallel structures and supporters. Despite the outcome of the last two elections, despite all the evidence, documents, law, and immoral attempts, it is also a matter of concern for our national security, as well as for our policy, for the sake of the parallel structure. Everyone should know that a structure without principles, rules, boundaries, morals does not benefit anyone. The issue in front of politics is to legally liquidate this structure. The restructuring of security institutions and judiciary on the basis of democratic legitimacy is of special importance in this regard. The new Turkey will never give credit to autonomous structures, gangs, mafia organizations within the state. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In particular, it will never be tolerated by a gang of judges, a dark network, to gain power, to first attempt to design judgment, and then to design the entire community. I believe that the members of the judiciary will first say, "Stop the attempts to submit to the judiciary by holding on to their honor, professional principles, and the interests of the country. " [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As well as government and judicial members, it is the people's will and demand that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, political parties and lawmakers who are the victims of this structure, stand firm and primitive towards the gang that threatens our national security. I believe in threats, blackmail, traps under the roof of this House and this Grand Assembly, that he will never yield. I believe the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take a bold stance that will be modeled by future generations, and will nullify the threats and blackmail of this parallel structure. You will appreciate that the new Turkey is a new constitution that will make the new Turkey stronger, which will basically make the new Turkey a solid foundation, which will be equivalent to the new Turkey. Dear lawmakers, this Parliament has been opened at the most difficult time our lands have been occupied. As the cannons were heard from Polatli, this assembly was a war of salvation, a triumph, and a war of salvation without fear, without hesitation, without courage. For ninety-four years, this Parliament has stood up to all kinds of troubles, crises, threats, national wills. This Parliament has the power, the saving, the will to build a new constitution. The new constitution, which is the common demand of 77 million, must now be made without a moment's delay; Turkey must be freed from the shackles of old times, times of coup. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] During the 24th term, as head of the ruling party's Group and Prime Minister, I worked hard to establish a new constitution. Unfortunately, making a new constitution was not possible during this period. Right after the 2015 elections, all parties in parliament should be able to come together without prejudices, to write a new constitution in reconciliation. Our nation's greatest desire, the new constitution, which will be our country's only means of development, should no longer be delayed. Mr. President, valued MPs, we're going through a period of great turmoil and transformation in our geography. I must point out from the very beginning that Turkey has no desire to interfere in the internal affairs of any country in our region or neighbour. Turkey never looks at its neighbours and countries in the region for a one-sided gain. First, peace, stability and trust of the region are directly concerned with Turkey's peace, stability and security. Secondly, it would be unfair to remain silent about the human dramas in our region, history, our profession, and the responsibility we bear. In the face of developments in the region, everyone may be silent, but Turkey does not have such an option. Anyone can close their eyes to the human dramas of our region and the world, but Turkey has no such option. In Libya, in Egypt, in Egypt, in Somalia, in Afghanistan, in Afghanistan, in Ukraine, Yemen, Iraq, Syria, to remain silent and unresponsive to the events that have taken place in Libya, Palestine, Egypt, Egypt, Somalia, and Afghanistan is both denial of history and denial of our own existence. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] The great state is not a state that closes its borders to the world, but is able to open its heart beyond its borders, to take initiative in crises, to deal with risks. Turkey can't be an audience state that is content with what is present. Turkey, the quarterback, has risen to a state of initiative, which struggles with the awareness of its responsibility for peace and solidarity. We have to take this further. On behalf of my country and my dear nation, I would like to express with great pride that in 2013, Turkey became the world's first and third largest in emergency and humanitarian aid, among all countries, in proportion to national income, and in quantity after the United States and Britain. (AK PARTY) Alan al-Turkish is now the hand giving, and has reached peaks in this area. Thanks to our country and nation's confidence again, Turkey has been able to produce its own tank, its own national warships, ATAK helicopters, drones, communications satellites, national infantry rifles, rocket launchers, and many more defence equipment. The same Turkey has recovered from the Turkish monuments in Mongolia to the bridges in Bosnia, from its martyrdom in Myanmar to the mosques in Macedonia, renovating our historical monuments one by one. Cenin Osmanlı Barracks in Palestine, Medrese in Crimea, Mustafa Pasha Mosque in Macedonia, Murat Hudavendigar Ashliy in Kosovo, Sinan Pasha Mosque in Fatih Mosque, Drina Bridge in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Konic Bridge and countless Ottoman works were repaired by Turkey. (Applause from the AKP PARTY) The village of Mehmet AkifOLDin in Kosovo has been reached, the village of Gazi Mustafa Kemal (his father's village in Macedonia) and the memories there have been revived. Turkey is a country that has successfully evacuated its citizens from crisis zones and even met other countries' demands for help, which have evacuated its citizens, other countries' citizens, journalists, and delivered them safely to their country. After the invasion of Mosul, our 49 consular workers, who were held in the hands of ISIS, were also stripped of their noses without bleeding, while 46 of them, who were our citizens, were returned to their countries and loved ones. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) On this occasion, once again, I would like to thank our government, our National Intelligence Agency, our Turkish Armed Forces, all of our officers here and in the field. Dear MPs, 130 more refugees are accepted by all of Europe from Syria. Turkey's number of Syrian refugees, including Iraq, has reached 1.5 million. So far, we've spent $4 billion on our guests on our land, with cross-border assistance, reaching $4.5 billion. We are proud of it, and we believe that these expenses will be a unique climate of friendship and brotherhood for future. Pointing out: there's a Turkey that's not questioning the ethnic origins, beliefs, sects of people from Iraq and Syria, it's opening its doors to all the needy, it's feeding them, it's clothing them, it's sheltering them. There is an Arab, Kurd, Turkmen, Ezidi, Shii, Sunni, Nusayri, Christian, Jewish, without any distinction, a Turkey that only looks at human beings as human beings, who extends its hand to everyone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I have to make it clear here that while our citizens are in the hands of ISIS, the situation is very sensitive, it has been very unfortunate for our politics and the media to make statements and publications that would threaten the safety of our citizens there. However, both the government and our security institutions have been extremely patient and cold-blooded, thus bringing a good outcome to our nation. We can't look at any terrorist organization in our land or in our region or on earth with sympathy or leniency. In the fight against terrorism, as a country, we are open and ready for any cooperation. However, everyone should know that Turkey is not a country to be used in the quest for a temporary solution. I express that in particular. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey is the country that best understands the solutions, which can analyze the ongoing crises in Iraq and Syria. Turkey is also a country that can communicate with almost all sides of the region. A decisive fight with all terrorist organisations in the region must be fought, and Turkey's proposals and warnings must be taken into consideration. Otherwise, tons of bombs from the air can only delay the threat and the threat, only delay it. This happened in Iraq. The old regime has fallen, but the new regime has not shown an attitude that embraces all of Iraq, despite all our warnings, our constructive criticism. Temporal solutions are inevitable for Iraq to face such interventions every ten years. On the other hand, the fact that Syria is kept off the agenda will also make the solution palatial. We had the opportunity to express our thoughts in detail to the relevant parties at the NATO Summit at Cardiff, as well as in New York, where we are for the General Assembly of the United Nations. We discussed them in detail both in the general boards and in our bilateral talks. The decision to provide assistance to areas in which humanity is dying is seriously injured by the presence of five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. Yes, the world is greater than five. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The reform of the United Nations Security Council is an irreversible need for global conscience and global justice. In any case, Turkey will continue to defend its thesis in the strongest possible way. Both the ISIS terrorist organization and other terrorist organizations in the region will be our effective priority. In Turkey alone, more than 1.5 million immigrants can return to their homes or are home in their countries will be the same priority. The immediate suspension of the Damascus administration will still be a priority for Syria to maintain its territorial integrity and to establish a government that embraces everyone with the constitutional and parliamentary system. Dear MPs, the late Turkut Ozal, spoke from this bench at the opening of the new year of legislation on September 1, 1990; significant developments were taking place in the Gulf, and Turkey was following these developments very closely. The deceased, Ozal, said on that day: "It is unthinkable for us to push a shy, undecided attitude in the depression of the blind, waiting for others to decide. Otherwise, it is clear that in a matter of Turkey's own interests, we will lose a great deal of the opportunity to become an influential country. Yes, by seeing the world and the world of the future, the deceased Ozal had shown a very right attitude in the Gulf crisis. After his passing, all of Turkey understood how appropriate his warnings and desires were. With new and great crises in our region, these crises can't be considered to concern our Muslim brothers, Arab, Kurdish, Turkmen, our brothers, this side of our borders, and the other side of our relatives, to remain indifferent, timid, deterrent. I believe that this understanding will also be assessed by the arguments expected to come to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. President, we understand this year the 100th anniversary of the First World War, which began in 1914 and touched us deeply. Despite a period of centuries, the geography, which was staged in World War I, is still lacking in stability, peace, and prosperity. After a hundred years, Turkey will not be able to stand by while our region is reshaped. In our neighbouring and regional countries, we do not approach events in a religious way or in a sense of interest. We're against any discrimination on the outside as well as on the inside. We take a completely human and principled stance on the people's demands of democracy, on countries like Egypt, which have been set up in a coup attempt. From whomsoever it may be from, and whomsoever it may be from whomsoever it may be from, We fight against all kinds of violence. In the Cyprus issue, in the end of the invasion of Azerbaijan territory, we follow a completely primitive, objective and constructive attitude towards peace in relations with Armenia and the 1915 events. We remain committed to full membership in the European Union. Despite the negatives, we continue our reforms uninterrupted. The goal of full membership in the European Union is a strategic goal of Turkey, where our efforts will continue uninterrupted. Thanks to its trust, stability, and reformist structure, Turkey is moving forward with confidence towards its 2023 goals. Dear lawmakers have established a climate of confidence and stability after the November 3, 2002 elections, a growth and development experienced by 77 million of our saints. Twelve years ago, what seemed to be a dream, what was unlikely to come true, became a reality today. Turkey's national income, which is $230 billion, rose by more than three stories today to $820 billion. At $3,500 per person, the national income reached $10,500 today. Turkey has become a country that has no debt to the IMF today and does not want to borrow money from the IMF, or even lend money to the IMF, as it deals with the International Fund of Money. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When I looked back at the talk of the new legislative period, which the late Özal had started and expressed in 1990, I found that in the 80s, there was a lack of currency, and then the Federal Reserve set a record of $11 billion. In 2002, that currency reserve reached $27.5 billion, we now, dear friends, raised it to $132.5 billion. The divided road and highway length of which the late Özal had started and built 1,500 kilometers had reached 6,100km in 2002. In 12 years, we've added 17,000 kilometers of new divided roads to this network. We introduced Turkey to the high - speed train. We built Marmaray, a tube passage under the Bosphorus, which was the dream of Abdulhamit Khan. We've brought in 205,000 new classes, 99 new public and foundation universities, into the education system. We started the construction of 633,000 dwellings, and within 12 years, we handed over 535,000 of them to the rightful owners. With scholarships, dorms, cash benefits, we've removed obstacles to education. The health system has been rebuilt, and our citizens have begun to receive human honorary services from hospitals. Sixty-four city hospitals, with the capacity of 52 thousand beds, including our 30 major cities, will be given to our country, hopefully, two years here, three years from now -- six months of contracts. With these city hospitals, hopefully, Turkey's health infrastructure will be almost restored. Within 12 years, 268 dams and 53 ponds were built, and 78 dams and 426 ponds are currently under construction. In agriculture, irrigation, energy field, environmental and urbanism, in the defence industry, Turkey met firsts, records. I believe that Turkey, in stability and security, will protect all of its gains and take them to a much higher level. The construction of the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, the third airport built under the Bosphorus, the two-story tube gate built under the Bosphorus, the suspension bridge built in the Bay of Izmit, the Istanbul-Izmir Highway, the new high-speed railway lines, the Ovit Tunnel, the TANAP project, the GAP, DAP and KOP projects, and many other major projects will be added to these big projects, such as the Canal Istanbul. Turkey's economy continues to grow on a very solid, stable and secure ground, and hopefully it will continue. The fact that Turkey will take over the G20 term presidency in 2015 will confirm once again our defining position in the global economy. 2023 is our target: $2 trillion in revenues, $25,000 per person, and $500 billion in exports are never dreams. So today, September export numbers have been announced and a new record has been set. In 2002, our exports of $36 billion reached the highest level in its history at 158 billion dollars today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, I'm sorry that it didn't fit into the brochures that were distributed to you because the books were printed when the news came in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Perceptive operations by inside and outside media and international credit rating agencies will never stop Turkey's economy from growing. Turkey's economy, which has come to this day with hard labor and hard work, will again march forward with peace of work. Hopefully, our government, our opposition, our Assembly, all our institutions and organizations will work together to achieve these very important goals for our nation. Mr. President, very valuable MPs, we no longer have a second to spend on tension, polarization, camping. Turkey, unfortunately, has wasted its energy for decades due to internal conflicts and virtual tensions. Refusal, denial and assimilation policies that fuel terrorism, discrimination and other discrimination have made Turkey pay a heavy price. He had to concentrate Turkey's energy on other areas for decades, by separating the differences that were actually rich, through these differences, by saying "Kurk, Kurdish, Arab, Georgian, Laz, Çerkek, Abaza, Roman, Bosniak, Armenian, Greek, Ezidi, Suryani, and others. Prohibitions, restrictions, pressures on values, beliefs, cultures have served no purpose but to disturb society. At a time when our region was in great change, at a time when the world was under the influence of the global crisis, Turkey had experience that would benefit from all these crises with its own unique and self-safe policies. Instead of wasting our energy, instead of focusing on their 2023 goals, then on their 2053 and 2071 goals, we will march into the future in mutual respect, tolerance and brotherhood law. A new policy in New Turkey is now inevitable. Not in the shadow of violence, terrorism, weapons and street actions, but not in the pursuit of abuse, but in the struggle to raise and develop Turkey, a policy will blow up Turkey. A policy made by scaring, polarizing, camping, not hugging, will bring Turkey together with its goals and dreams. With such understanding, both power and opposition must be in the service of the country and the nation by sharing fate. I believe that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in this General Assembly hall in the first place, will have the appreciation of the nation for its kindness, tolerance, empathy, not the fistfighting, but the people it has served as its representative, not the court. The 12th President of the Republic of Turkey, as the first elected President of the people, I would like to remind you once again that I will be in the office of the Constitution, serving my country and nation. A elected president, a elected government, a constructive opposition, will, hopefully, initiate a new process of action in Turkey, embracing the new Turkey with new goals. May God help us all. May the Lord bless our country, our nation, all mankind. The 24th term wishes the Fifth Year of Legislature to be good, and I thank each and every one of you for your hard work and your hard work and your hard work, and I wish you success. In the midst of you and yourselves, I now celebrate the blessed Feast of Sacrifices of the whole Islamic world, calling for the holiday to be a blessing to our country and most of all to the poor and poor on earth. Thank you, thank you, God be with you.
tbmm-2014-10-01sit01spe0003par0133	[[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have read and process and submit to your votes: The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at the Council's meeting on 1/10/2014. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Following the President's opening speech in the 1st edition of the 24th Legislature of the General Assembly, 1/10/2014 of the Fifth Year of Legislature of the Legislature of the Council, it has been suggested that no other work be held on Wednesdays 8 and 9 October 2014 and Thursdays. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Members of parliament, as per the verdict, there is no further topic on our agenda today. To take the necessary measures against the threat of terrorism against Turkey's national security and any security risk, to eliminate attacks on our country from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria and to discuss other tasks from the Turkish Armed Forces (Turkish Armed Forces) to ensure that its safety is maintained against possible risks, and for the same purposes, foreign armed forces should be sent to foreign countries on Thursday (October 2nd 2014). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
