tbmm-2014-06-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we request and demand that a parliamentary research commission be established in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, 98, and TEMM Institution, be established in order to investigate pollution in the Gediz basin, identify problems, and determine measures to be taken. [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 4) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] 10) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] 13) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] 18) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] 22) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] 24) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 25) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] Around 800,000 of our citizens live in the Gediz basin, and tens of thousands of people are in agricultural activity in this basin. The Gediz Plain has one of the most fertile lands in our country and in the world. Industrial plants that are important to Turkey's economy are growing in this land. Cotton, primarily grapes, is produced economically in the plains of Gediz. Also, fruiting is important, including cherries and strawberries in the Gediz basin. It is vital that such fertile lands be preserved and transferred to future generations. The Gediz basin, which includes the Gediz River and the Gediz Plain, is now under threat of pollution. Industrial facilities in the basin pose a major threat to the basin, the waste of organised industrial areas. The damage caused by organised industrial areas and industrial facilities in areas near the river in the basin is serious. In the beginning, the chemical wastes of the dermatology and textile sector mix with the Gediz River, polluting the river significantly. Analyzing the samples from the river, heavy metal readings are several times higher than they should be. The remnants of Kemalpaşa Organised Industry also cause pollution by interfering with Nif Tea. The lack of plant treatment facilities installed in the region is easily understood by the pollution of the basin. In addition, household waste and waste dump sites in the basin areas are polluting the basin. Because of legislation, some of our municipalities have failed to start or finish construction of solid waste disposal facilities and wastewater treatment facilities due to lack of resources. In addition, work must be done to repair mining and extraction activities and the environmental destruction of the city-wide sand pits. Minister of Environment and Forestry, Mr. Veysel Eroglu earlier on December 31, 2012 at 17 p.m. at the Gediz River. I'm going to catch a fish at 100. He said the river would be cleaned. However, Eroglu refused to give a date to resolve the same problem during his visit to Manisa in June 2012. On 5 June 2012, Mustafa Yilmaz, director of Manisa Environment and Urbanism, also said at the ceremony of World Environment Day: "Manisa is among the best cities in terms of development, but unfortunately, in terms of the environment, I regret to say, has failed. We don't have a solid waste storage area yet. We're still stockpiling wilds. We still haven't activated our decontamination facilities. Not these. These are things that don't suit us. I personally feel guilty as a manager. But we will do our best." Danger bells ring for the Gediz basin, as the above statements and findings indicate. We need to make the necessary assessments and take precautions as soon as possible. According to the Constitution, the administration must take the necessary measures in order for our citizens to live in a healthy environment. In this framework, we demand and demand that a parliamentary research commission be established in accordance with Article 104 and 105 of TBM Subsection (TBM) to determine the reasons for the pollution caused by the Gediz basin, to investigate the measures to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th, TBM Institution, and 105th, in order to investigate the reasons and consequences of the problems that could have been caused by the change of the Konya-Antalia county border line. [[Antalya]] 2) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[40s.]] 4) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 8) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Hatay]] 10) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 11) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Artvin]] 13) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Amasya]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] 19) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] It has been located in Ibradi, the northern border of Antalya, and has been within the borders of Antalya since Seljuklu and Osmanlı. After various studies in 1941, 1987 and 2000, the area was clearly located within Antalya borders. As a result of a trial filed in 2005 at Beyşehir Tapu Kadastro Court, the court registered this region as the property of Antalya. "The border between the municipality of Pinarbaşı and the district of İbradi has been set at the end of the discussion, "the border between Koyunikikı, Middlebademhanı, Eriklibucakı, Dereağzi and Trikuyular, and the district of Pınarbaşı and İbradi. In Article 2 of Article 2 of the City Administration Act 5442, "in the establishment and removal of accidents, in the binding of another province of one accident and in the specifying its centrality, the talks of the administrative committees and the public parliaments in the changing of borders are taken." It's called. The County Administration Board of Antalya Governorate also stated in its decision in 06/06/96 that the area involved is within the borders of Antalya. Despite all the above findings, a political decision has been made completely unconstituted, including President Abdullah Gul, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin signed a trilateral decree and issued a decision to establish a border in the Official Gazette, narrowing Antalya's northern border to about 13km in this region. It was discovered that four quarryes were operating in this area, which could not obtain a business license from Antalya County Special Administration, even though they were on the Antalya border, had been issued a business license for the same quarry. When the Antalya County Special Administration Commission for Mines and Stone Januarys sent a delegation into the region to investigate this informal situation, the delegation was prevented from reaching the site by the owners of the interested quarry to place large stone and rock sets on the roads. The fact that the relevant trilateral resolution was published only twenty days after these events was carried out in the Official Gazette is thought-out. Next to these quarryes are the Gold cradled Culture, Tourism Protection and Development Centre. In the same region, the "Goldgerian National Park", which was estimated to have been formed five billion years ago and was declared a national park in the 1990s, in the world's second-largest underground lake, with an unprecedented endemic cover, is wanted to be finished by means of these unlicensed stone and marble furnaces. Our important assets are wanted to be destroyed for the sake of financial gain and ambitions of one or several individuals or companies. On the grounds set out above, a parliamentary investigation will be in place to investigate the reasons and consequences of the problems that could result from the change of the Konya-Antalia county border line and to determine the measures to be taken by our Supreme Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's 8th and first civilian president, by removing a veil of secrecy over the death of the deceased politician, Turgut Özal, who was also suspected by the State Controller's Board, we propose and establish and propose the opening of Parliamental research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to determine the true cause of his death and to expose those responsible. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] Throughout the history of the Republic of Turkey, any attempt to seek a solution to the Kurdish problem under democratic criteria has been blocked in antidemocratic fashion. Many statesmen and politicians who have expressed that the problem is the problem of democracy have lost their lives in a suspicious manner. The most traumatic of these suspicious deaths was the death of the deceased, Turgut Özal, who died when he was the 8th President. The statesman, who served as Prime Minister of the 45th and 46th government, the late Turkut Ozal, had made important decisions regarding Turkey's future and democratisation, and in the process of carrying out these decisions in a stable manner, he set an example for today's politicians. However, during his mission, he was exposed to open or indirect threats and left us with his death on April 17, 1993, leaving many question marks. Turgut Özal's suspicious death took place at a time when the Kurdish issue was being resolved in peaceful and democratic ways. At the same time, the murder of journalist writer Ugur Mumcu, the death of general Üsref Bitlis in the plane crash, was the assassination of Major Cem Ersever. "We can also discuss the federation" in the Kurdish issue of these suspicious deaths that have wasted a historic process. The death of the deceased, Turgut Ozal, who died while in office, had been added to deep suspicion. This death not only referred to the Kurdish problem in its most burning form, but also the beginning of a bloody process. Although many intellectuals and politicians, particularly their family, whose death was an open assassination, state officials did not go over their suspicions, they did not. However, according to the survey conducted by the State Board of Control, the report stated yesterday that the death of Turgut Özal was suspicious, that the autopsy was not performed, the manner of intervention during the disease, and that the cause of death remained unknown until now. This report presents an important opportunity to remove the mystery of the death of Turgut Ozal. The most obvious of the open threats received by the deceased Özal was the assassination attempt on 18 June 1988 during his prime minister's term. It was discovered that the person responsible for the assassination was Contgerilla, and strong allegations were made that Ergenekon was behind it. The deceased, Ozal, understood that as far as the Prime Minister's office is concerned, the gangrenizing Kurdish problem cannot be solved by security policies alone, and shared its intentions with close friends of media and politics. The problem for the solution to the Kurdish problem has taken place in an effort to co-operate with all its actors. Noting that the Kurdish problem could be solved in peaceful ways, that the war could only end in this way, he said in interviews that he would make serious decisions on stopping operations as a first step for peace. On March 17, 1993, the PKK declared a ceasefire. After the PKK's ceasefire decision, the deceased Özal said, "For the first time in ten years, I slept soundly." "and put it on the ceasefire. Turgut Özal's wife, Semra Özal, claimed that despite all insistences, no autopsy had been performed, and that evidence had been found that she had been poisoned in the U.S. hair, and Ahmet Özal, his son, testified that the results of the study had not been shared with them. Similar issues have been highlighted in the State Board of Control report, and it has been focused on the fact that there have been no evidence-detecting procedures at the autopsy and/or mansion compound. Given the State Control Board's report and all the allegations, we find it appropriate to set up a parliamentary research commission to uncover the cause of the death of the late President, Turgut Özal, and to share it with the public. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss the work on the special agenda, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with the Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked 1st, under the proposal to make changes to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. 3rd ranked in Turkey's Criminal Law and 7 MPs; Antalya MP Yıldiray Sapan's; Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt's; İstanbul MP Erdoğan İç's; İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel; İstanbul MP Sena Kalli's; Gaziantep MP Mehmet Şeker and 7 MP Yıdiray Sapan's; Eskişehir MP Kazim Kurt and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's; İstanbul MP Sezgin's; İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel's; İstanbul MP Sena Kaleli's; İstanbul MP Şelı's Party; Ankara MP Mehmet Şeker and İstanbul's Democratic Party's İstanbul MP Şaşıtın; İstanbul MP Şeşıtıtı MP Şeş; İstanbul MP Şeş; İstanbul's MP Şeşıtıtınılı İçılı; İstanbul MP Şeşılı; İstanbul MP İs MP Şeşılı; İstanbul MP Şeş; İstanbul MP İs MP İsılıın İçılı; İstanbul MP Şeşı MP İçılı İsış; İstanbul MP İsı; İstanbul MP İsıtınılı, İstanbul MP İsı MP İsışılı İsıtıtın İsılı; İstanbul MP'sılı MP İsıtılı; İstanbul MP'sılı; İstanbul MP and İstanbul MP İsılıılıılı MP İsı MP İsılı İsılı MP İsı; İstanbul MP İsılı MP İsılımın İsılı MP İsılı MP İsılışımılışılı MP İsılışılı MP İsılışılılılılılılılılışılımınlış; İstanbul MP and İstanbul MP İsılılılış; İstanbul MP İsılı; İstanbul MP İsımılılılılılılılılılılı MP İsımınılıılı MP İsılı MP İsılı; İstanbul MP İsılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsılılılıınılılılılılılılışılılı The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger was held during the vote of İzmir MP Reza Turmen and his friends' motion on Article 13 (first motion) of Article 1 of the draft law, which was considered fundamental under Article 91. Now, to remind you of the motion that the Commission and the government disagree, I'm going to read it and submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the current 592 rows. Subsequently replaced by Article 2576. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "bin of Turkish liras" in the joke be replaced by the phrase "500 Turkish liras." Reza Sürmen (Izmir) and his friends
tbmm-2014-06-06sit01spe0002par0205	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit01spe0001par0206	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 13, the decision of İzmir MP Reza Turmen and his friends was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't... the MPs, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit03spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 13th article, there was not enough decision-making to vote on the proposal of İzmir MP Reza Turmen and his friends twice. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the statement in Article 13 of the existing 592 rows of the bill be changed in the form of a statement. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit03spe0003par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit03spe0001par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit03spe0004par0014	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit03spe0001par0015	Yes, it's Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit03spe0005par0018	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 13th Amendment to the Turkish Penal Code, 592 rows, and on the 13th Amendment to some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, under the law discussed under the Turkish Penal Code's amendment bill, under the General Assembly, I would like to address the damage done by the privatisation of the energy sector to the people, farmers and agriculture, especially in my own constituency, Mardin, in the last few days, by the practice that drove farmers mad. Dear MPs, some of the practices of the Tigris Electric Dispersion Company, known simply as DEDAŞ, have been reflected in the press that have victimised our citizens, as well as from our citizens, have been heavily transmitted complaints and letters to my side. There are constant power cuts in our provinces, especially in Mardin, where I have been acting as a deputy, by not splitting the budget for infrastructure investments in Diyarbakir, Batman, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Siirt and Şırnak. Our tradesman can't do any work due to power cuts, our farmers can't water their fields. The citizens' white goods are becoming unusable due to the cuts. Dear lawmakers, the government is preparing the basis for practices that would strengthen the victim's victimism rather than impose sanctions on the citizens. In Mardin, our farmers reacted to the decision of the Council of Ministers to seize agricultural support premiums due to the unjust electric debts that DEDAŞ issued to them. At the same time, yesterday, Diyarbakır-Mardin was cut off by a large group in Mardin, and after a long wait, our farmers and security forces faced many tensions and unrest, and one of our farmers was taken into custody. So, as you can see, the Mardin-Diyarbakir road has been closed for almost all day. At the same time, our normal citizens, who had nothing to do with it, have become victims. Our farmers are in a very difficult position because of the high prices of diesel, fertilizer, and agricultural medicine. This year's drought and loans to banks have increased the economic burden of farmers. As we consider the share of our cities in agricultural production, there are considerable losses to the country's economy. Again, it is evident that the illegal and illegal use of electricity has not been observed by DEDAS. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, these cases are also a matter of trial. Courts decide these cases in favour of farmers. The amount of the invoice in a case file is $68,000, but the same bill must be $2,400 for the same bill. It seems that DEDA officials are familiar with bills and illegal reports before they go to the scene of the crime. The expert assessment of the case files confirms that. It is also assumed that the power of the board of transformers is operating at full capacity, and the illegal justice is being organised, and by detecting a consumption that is far above the actual spending, the steep debt bills are being charged. I want to express that we, the party, are with our citizens in the face of the unjust practices of DEDAS. We expect you to revisit the decision you made in favor of DEDAS and implement the arrangement that will ensure that whoever consumes the energy will pay as much as possible. Otherwise, you'll have accelerated the bankruptcy of our agricultural policies in the region and created a new army of unemployed. Dear lawmakers say we stand by our farmers from here once again, support their democratic responses, and follow the issue until their problems are resolved, calling on all political parties and public sentiment, again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit03spe0006par0028	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-06-06sit03spe0007par0032	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit03spe0006par0033	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Ozink, Mr. Nazliaka, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Akova, Mr. Serter, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Değirmerdereli, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Şeken, Mr. Young, Mr. Captain, Mr. Aldan. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0006par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call on Article 13 was not enough for the meeting before the vote of Mardin MP Erol Dora and his friends. Now I'm going to do the roll call again. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 14th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th draft of the current 592 Rows. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "three months" in his joke be replaced by "six months." Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Aylin Nazlıaka Haydar Akar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the proposed 592 rows of the bill be replaced by the "itibari" of the 2nd and 4th verses of the 14th amendment. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Faysal Sarıyıldız Selma River Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th edition of the 592 Orders Numbered Bill. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Murat Basesgioğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Ali Halaman Ali Öz Emin Çınar Seyfetttin Yilmaz Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0008par0041	He doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0006par0042	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0009par0043	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0006par0044	Yes, Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0010par0046	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Criminal Code and to our motion on the 14th Amendment bill. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I would like to say good-bye to all our citizens who have been affected by the flood in various parts of Turkey, especially my constituency. And I think it would be helpful for our government to find a way out of here as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, democracy is a system based on balance between law and politics. The essence and security of democracy is the consciousness of the law and the independence of the judiciary. The freedom to criticize and search for rights that people are unhappy with is both a guarantee of democracy and its foundation. Those who want to run state affairs in a democratic system need to develop both law and political awareness. If there is corruption, come to me and tell me. A prime minister who says, "If there is corruption, it means that there is no sense of law, and there is no sense of politics." The Prime Minister should know that when he's trapped between a shoebox and a truck trailer, the voter and the judge are not substitutes for each other. What would the Prime Minister say if 51 percent of the people wanted to avoid paying taxes or disobey the laws that were not in their favor? In democracy, every institution must be supervised and every audit must be open to the public. From this point of view, the AKP's decision to smuggle Court reports from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is no worse than corruption and corruption investigations. Apparently, they weren't independent of each other. The most general expression of the threat to democracy is that the judiciary is not independent. Only those who view this threat as a commitment to the congregation find the solution to link the judiciary to them, not to make it independent. In the eyes of the prime minister, the threat is not that the judiciary is bound to the congregation, but that it has already been tolerated; for him, the threat is that it does not depend on itself through the congregation. It's not possible for such a mindset to talk about advanced democracy or anything, in any democratic system to be in the right place to run state affairs. At the point where AKP mentality brought Turkey to Turkey during its twelve-year-old rule, even the president of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, who was elected from its own party, says the Constitutional Article 138 is dead in this country, which regulates the independence of the courts. Is it easy to put the responsibility on the back of the congregation and get rid of it? But when their corruption was exposed, it occurred to them to say so. Isn't it timed by what they like to call it? The Prime Minister went and cried out from Far Far Asia, saying, "The judge has no problem but treason." Can you imagine, the Prime Minister of a country could even say that he was a traitor to the judgment of that country? Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, if your minister is the money vaults in your children's bedrooms, the country is 4.5 million dollars in the shoeboxes of your general managers, the hours in your ministers' arms are $700,000 in the country, the villas in the basement, the homeland, the country, the state, the traitor of the state, and the traitor of the country. Why would a prime minister view independent judgment as a threat and want to attach it to himself? Why would he accuse her of treason and think that it would end if he tied it to himself? Even for ideological reasons, the Prime Minister is not willing to take such a step, but he's going into something like this to get rid of corruption investigations, so he's showing what he's good at. Yes, December 17th, when we understand what Erdogan is master of. From now on, anyone who wants to see his masterpiece will look at the destruction caused by the state structure and corruption buried nearby. Now, I'd like to ask the intellectuals who immediately caught and uncovered the US-Israeli conspiracy on December 17th: The MIT can be used against the Prime Minister's desk on April 18th for their Minister's corruption relations with Reza Sarraf. Be careful. He reports that it is a separate scandal, then there is no conspiracy. A month later, the Prime Minister leaves for the United States. All the ruling circles, particularly the media, show that Obama cares deeply for the Prime Minister, and Blair House also hosted him. There's no U.S. conspiracy. However, on December 17th, when the shoeboxes and money boxes of their children and ministers were scattered around, they called it the U.S.-I.S.-Israel conspiracy.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0011par0055	Yes, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the 2nd chapter of the 592th amendment of the proposed law shall be replaced in the form of the 2nd and 4th terms of the 14th amendment. Fair Zozani (True) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0012par0062	It doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0011par0063	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0013par0064	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0011par0065	Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0014par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge on the 14th Amendment, and I salute you all. Now, keeping the House busy with these kind of palliative legal regulations is almost like running the House off-the-line, and it seems that if the atmosphere goes on like this, the atmosphere, the Parliament atmosphere, and if that goes on like this, we're going to spend the year of legislature arguing about this law, and there's no chance that a new regulation will come to the agenda of Congress. The AKP itself has already started rehab, and the total of 326 is no longer 185, it's down by half, it's down by half, it's down by the AKP. We need to work on the reasons for this. Why are we in this situation? Why can't Congress work? Why are lawmakers in parliament so indifferent to parliamentary work, whose duty is to make laws? I think it's a situation where the AKP, in the first place, has to think about the group administration, question it. Now, that's the truth. If you bring the laws of this country to Turkey's agenda and bring them to the agenda of the Assembly, instead of the agenda of the Parliament with such laws being brought here under the name of "reform" on the agenda, you will find 550 MPs sitting here all the time. However, since you have not done so, we are facing a problem because you do not bring legal regulations that will answer Turkey's basic problems to the agenda of the Assembly. There's a situation of reluctance because everyone knows that a year later, well, a year later, we made the legal arrangements that we made today here again, we made a mistake in a comma there, so let's make it right again. Each of us has faced this situation on our own commissions many times. Now, there is chaos that will come to Turkey's agenda as of August 10th, where no one talks. The fact that the president will be elected by the public will put the dual hierarchy reality in Turkey ahead of us as of August 10th. According to current laws, the government does not have the chance to elect the President and keep the Prime Minister's powers within the current Constitution and maintain the usual order until now. Your governor is one, but he's the one who instructs the governor. You'll have a two-way mechanism. Is the governor going to listen to the president's instructions, or is he going to listen to the Prime Minister's or the government's instructions? Starting August 10th, you're gonna start going through this. This reality is one of the most serious problems of all -- not bringing such a legal arrangement, or, rather, the new constitution that everyone has promised, to Turkey's agenda, not having discussed it, and not bringing Turkey to a new constitution. Here you will be facing a double hierarchy system in Turkey starting August 10th. What are you going to do then? How will you manage a year? Starting in 2015... everyone will be able to re-open the new constitution in the coming period, starting in the summer, and all parties will do it, and you will do it, and the opposition will do it. However, you have no chance of bringing this up before the fall of 2015. In the meantime, how will you manage the two hierarchy systems in Turkey during the remaining period? If you think you can handle this with the Prime Minister, you need to know that this country no longer exists in the 1990s, the 1980s, the 1970s. I just wanted to remind you that we're going to face such a reality. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0015par0073	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th draft of the current 592 Rows. Article 1. We offer and propose that the phrase "three months" in his joke be replaced by "six months." Aylin Nazlıaka (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0016par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0015par0081	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0017par0082	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0015par0083	Aylin Nazlıaka, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Nazlıaka.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0018par0086	Mr. President, we're meeting again, again, on a bag of laws. Of course, a true value of law enforcement is a technicality, but there is no doubt that the law has a soul. Where does that soul come from? It's given over to the living, given over to the real-life stories. This is why, before the law is passed and in the process of removing the law, its shareholders must be included in the process, so NGOs must be involved in the process. But once again, we see that a bag of laws, with a very limited participation of NGOs, with limited talking time, such as ten minutes, are being issued with very limited opinions. Moreover, psychologists, pedagogs, sociologists, anthropologists, each of whom is considered extinct and their views are ignored; women's associations, children's associations are ignored. So, how healthy is this bill going to be when we're going through a process like this? In addition, the 104-point law does not mention a woman's name, and once again, women are ignored. But it was a necessity for you to make a law on children. Because now that you've looked at the newspapers, all kinds of violations of child's rights were on the headlines as well as reports of violence against women. I mean, Turkey, on the one hand, was regressing on women's rights and human rights, and, of course, our children's rights and our children's share of it. That's why we have over 30,000 missing children in our country today, about 2,000 of our children in prison, over 2,000 children living on the street again, over 100,000 children are drug addicts, over 1 million of our children are workers. Look, one out of 20 employees are employed at the age of a child. Only last year 59 of our children lost their lives in a business accident, 633 of our children died from preventable accidents. There's a mindset in Turkey that finds children's marriages innocent. There's a mindset that offers to scream against abusers, rapists, abusers, and imposes on parents and children the responsibility to become a state. And that's why a law like that had to come out, of course, but we wanted it to be based on real-life stories, and that law had to be set up, and that law had to have a soul. Look, let's be frank about this: when anyone commits a crime, they go from ten years to 20 years in the Turkish Penal Code, and no one decides whether to commit it by looking at TCK. Of course, it's important to increase punishments, but we say: First, we need to increase preventive measures. What are the social, economic, cultural reasons that cause these crimes, let's investigate them first, try to prevent these crimes first, and then, of course, punish the criminals. Look, you know what this looks like? There's a fire in a house, and you're questioning whether the person who started the fire was punished after the fire broke out or if the fire truck was there on time. Of course, it's important that the criminal is punished, of course, that the fire engine intervenes in the time of the firefighters, but it's very, very critical that the reasons why that criminal should commit that crime be found out. So, first of all, while increasing preventive measures, the factors that prevent men and women from socializing together need to be eliminated. Look, today, we, the Speaker of Congress, have heard that even our deputy is against co-education. We've heard that some of the AKP's MPs are against co-educating. Those are the ones who increase gender inequality and crime. Therefore, I say, dear lawmakers: neither sell your soul nor ignore the fact that there is a soul of the law before you pass the law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0019par0096	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Article 15 of the 592 law bill in question, we propose and propose that the notice be changed in the form of adjudication, advocacy, or appeal. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Faysal Sarıyıldı Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft of the current 592 Rows Bill. Law number 2577 replaced by Article 15 According to the fourth article of the article, we propose and propose that the decision be corrected before the statement be added, and that the declaration be added. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Gürkut Acar Now, I'm going to have to read the motion for violation of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 rows are 15 of the Numbered Legislature. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Ali Öz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Murat Basesgioğlu Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0020par0124	The commission is not participating, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0019par0125	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0021par0126	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0019par0127	Ali Halaman, Adana MP. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0022par0130	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been placed in three departments of Article 104 of Bill 592. I've made a promise on the motion we made in chapter one, Article 15. I salute you all with love. This bill, as a result, is to bring together the law proposals the opposition lawmakers have given, to act as if they are doing what they say, and to do what the government says, to make changes in the Supreme Court, the Court, the district administration courts, and I will set up and assign responsibilities to them, and I will promote them, and I will bring them out of their eyes, to the bill that we are working on our politics yesterday, but we are together today, with the parallel structure of material, spiritual problems that arises between us, and I will make them kneel, and I will bring them into their dens, and I will bring them into their eyes. And recently, the great cities, which seem to be high hopes and hopes, have been set up in this Parliament with a eager, eager desire. The reason for its establishment, in the future, is because of what I'm doing in a parliament that's been seen all over Turkey today, where there's hardly any Istrial Anthem in many parts of Turkey, and what is not read, and what is not read, and what is not read, and what is not read, and what is being read, and what is being abandoned, and what is being abandoned by police stations, and what is being pulled back, and what is being separatisted, and what is being called by the Karabekirs, the Ataturks, and what I'm building. You close the courthouse buildings in other places, but why do you shut down Saimbeyli's courthouse? So there's terror here? Is there anyone here who swears at Ataturk, or who takes down Kazim Karabekir? Therefore, there is no state in this country without those who create the state, who you accept as governor, who you accept as a doctor, judge, prosecutor, nurse, deed officer, who you accept as a judge. The government's reason for being the governor, the governor, the doctor, the judge, the prosecutor. Where there's no such thing as a government, a nation, a people? So, we're going to meet the proposals made by these courts, which are set up, so we're going to show them, and we're going to show them, and we're going to meet the proposals made by members of the opposition party... I want to stop drugs in this country. You say the laws before that held your hand to prevent drugs? So, while I say that I don't find this law very appropriate, at universities, at universities, colleges -- the group, the group, the clusters -- not the test of college, which children are going to enter classes, which children are not going to enter -- are there no laws in this country to prevent illegal structures? Therefore, I find this law to be a determinant, as soon as possible, from political power, awaiting the opening of the Saimbeyli Courthouse, which is not clear why he closed it yesterday, with all due respect and love.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0023par0137	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft of the current 592 Rows Bill. Law number 2577 replaced by Article 15 According to the fourth article of the article, we propose and propose that the decision be corrected before the statement be added, and that the declaration be added. Gürkut Acar (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0024par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0023par0145	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0025par0146	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0023par0147	Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0026par0150	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 15th amendment of the bag of justice package 592 rows. I salute the High Council. My dear friends, the Justice and Development Party, as it has always done, is still trying to overturn the judiciary by making excuses for certain issues. We will protect the children, we will cleanse them of sexual abuse. This law bypasses the prosecution under its cover. The Supreme Court is reshaped according to its convenience. You're being given a message from the court under the cover of the Supreme Court, don't interfere in the affairs of the EED, don't interfere in the privatisation business, don't interfere in the rants; judge, take your hand away from here. Now, my fellow AKP MP friends, you've made your own judgment, you've brought all the bureaucrats to the Supreme Court, you've created a judgment, but it's not enough, now you're trying to make your own judgment. It has no place in the law. There are extraordinary situations. If you do what you call law, called law, according to law, according to the Prime Minister, there will be no law, there will be no justice, there will be no justice, my dear friends. As a matter of fact, Turkey is drowning in illegality, and you are responsible for it as the Justice and Development Party, and the Prime Minister himself. In a country where a court order has been passed, the state of law does not operate, my dear friends do not practice law in that country, and neither does Turkey. My dear friends, I don't say this with pleasure. I'm a lawyer, a lawyer who's actually been a lawyer for 39 years. My dear friends, I'm a man who understands what law is. No lawless government has ever gone anywhere. It's not a lawless country. You're wrong, you're wrong. Now, there have been motions for the establishment of commissions on four former ministers, corruption, bribery, official documents, such as fraud. What did the AKP say? What did you write to him? You wrote: "The state of law is the state that maintains the security of the law, which avoids unconstitutional situations and attitudes, which are bound by the Constitution and laws, which are open to judicial control. You wrote this, how beautiful, how right it is. You destroy the legal state, you bypass the court's decisions, and you pass the law for that, you ignore the court's decisions, you ignore the laws of the Supreme Court, you trample the airport's decisions, and you mop the court's decisions about the Ataturk Forest Farm, and then you stand up about the corruption charges of the four ministers, and you say, I mean, what's right about that? When it's for you, it'll be a state of law, but when the courts decide otherwise, then the state of law is not important. What diet is this, sauerkraut? It's a mind-blowing idea of law. You can't go like this, my dear friends, you're not going anywhere. Look, you remember right away when the investigation into corruption came to the state of the law, which you'd forgotten for years, which you'd never even thought of. I mean, there's no telling what that's like. Dear friends, look, the Prime Minister says that we don't side with the tension. I mean, if we were living in Patagonia, we wouldn't see anything strange about it, but we live in Turkey, and we know who created the tension. You're going to say to every person who goes out on the street, you're going to say, "Strike the people, the children, the young, the families, the people who have lost their lives, you're going to get them kicked in the back, they're going to attack me, they're going to enter the mosque. You're going to provoke the citizens, and then you're going to say, "We're not going to be on the side of the regression." You're going to say, "It's just going to be called the Pes! My dear friends, the Prime Minister says: "Democracy is only a chest." What about the will of those who do not vote for you, what about their rights, what about their demands? Doesn't it matter that the will that chooses us, that sends us here? My dear friends, this law has the qualities to eliminate the state of law in Turkey, which will upset the judiciary. Many articles of this law are unconstitutional. There's no way you're gonna survive that law. You didn't listen to the court rulings on privatisations, that's a constitutional offense, and the judges you've appointed today will convict you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0027par0159	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit04spe0028par0160	Thank you. I'm going to put the motion to the vote, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0028par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 15th article, the decision to vote on the motion of Antalya MP Gürkut Acar and his friends was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Article 15 of the 592 law bill in question, we propose and propose that the notice be changed in the form of adjudication, advocacy, or appeal. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0029par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0028par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0030par0014	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0028par0015	Yes, it's Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0031par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on the 15th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. Many speakers today spoke of the bag of laws. From that point of view, I've felt the need to evaluate the process of the bag of laws in the historical process. Dear MPs, what can be said in the first hand is that the fantasy of the bag law, let alone the modern universal rule of law, is contrary to the principle that Rome was united in laws adopted in 98 B.C.E. two thousand years ago. Given the fact that the bag of laws adopted in the Turkish Grand National Assembly can add and make changes to a number of different laws and laws, we can see that there are a wide variety of problems caused by the bag of laws. The violation of the principle of creating an open law within the framework of law enforcement among them may be mentioned because following the laws that are changed by lawless bags without a certain system is a huge challenge for the practicers. The bag is an obstacle to the knowledgeability of the law and the predictability of its consequences, as much as it strengthens the pursuit of the law. Also, the bag is not systematic, so there is no systematic comment when the need for comment is born. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the bag of law is in the process of enforcing an effective use of civil society's legislation. In addition to these difficulties, the bag of legislation eliminates the negotiation process, which is part of the methodical principles of the law-making process, and the Commission and the General Assembly in Parliament are reduced to formal formalities. Although there are many different regulations in the matter, the bag also seems to have ruled out occupational commissions, which are of great importance to the legislative process. A large number of new substances appear to be added to the bag laws during the commission. So the process of legislation is completely open to surprises. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are a fundamental subject of political philosophy as to what the law should be intended as a result of the power of law enforcement and the use of this authority. What should the law aim to do? The first answer to the question we will give is that a law must bring justice first. In Rome, it is considered a constitutional principle, banned in 34 states in the United States, and banned by the principle of the singularity of the issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is something very important I'd like to address as we discuss a bill that includes regulations that are mostly within the Ministry of Justice. Hundreds of thousands of children who will graduate from the faculty in the coming weeks will be entitled to attend high schools at various levels, with the weight of their scores from basic education to middle education exams. However, the first was held in November 2013 and the second in April 2014, when a major scandal was made against students who studied in minority schools and students who were exempt from religious culture and ethics classes, and their scores were miscalculated. How will the placement score be calculated? In placement in secondary school, the student's sixth, seventh and eighth-grade success points will be a key score of up to 30 per cent of the arithmetic average and 70 per cent of the weighted centralized test score. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers -- students from minority school and students from public schools who are exempt from religious classes -- have been given zero points, and will be placed in schools as a result of this assessment. Because of this sacrifice, perhaps many of our children won't get into the school they want. Now, we say that Turkey is a secular, democratic law state. Although I had met with the Minister of National Education many times, there was no solution, he said you were right. From that point on, I'm speaking to the Prime Minister: These children are the children of this country, they are citizens of this country; we want to say that a curriculum to ensure their victims cannot be applied because they are from a different religion. In addition, religious freedom has been secured under the United Nations Convention on Human Rights. I'm calling from here to our Minister of Justice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First of all, I'd like to address the members of the group as well: I wish you to show the proper sensitivity in this sense, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0032par0030	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0033par0031	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0034par0034	Mr. President, I do. If you ask Güldal Hanım!
tbmm-2014-06-06sit05spe0033par0035	Congressmans, there's enough decision-making to go around, and we're not denying it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0033par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 15th article, there was not enough decision to vote on the petition of Mardin MP Erol Dora and his friends. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to call it a decision. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's a disagreement between the Clerk members, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th draft of the current 592 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. Article 17 of Law No. 16 (2577) has been changed in the following way. ▪ Article 17 ▪ 1. A mistrial in prosecutorial and administrative and tax courts and tax cases that exceed 30,000 Turkish liras and tax, such as taxes, pictures and mortars, and tax cases, which amount to more than 25,000 Turkish liras, are held at the request of one of the parties. 2. Courts of appeals and indictments are subject to the requests of the parties and the decision of the Court of State or the relevant district administration court. 3. The request for a hearing can be made in responses and defences with a petition. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Sedef Little Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders Numbered Bill 16th. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Ali Öz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Murat Başesgioğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0035par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0033par0035	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0036par0036	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0033par0037	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0037par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, yesterday I began to tell you about the Ottoman era in which the law enforcement courts had been formed, and it was unfinished. So, before Tanzimat, there is no court of law in the Ottoman State under the name of the recrimination court, but there is a process that fulfills its mission. I mean, in cases involving normal women, if there's a problem and faith isn't true, it can be applied to the Court of Appeals. The case is being reconsidered through the Supreme Court -- there are the Kadiarchs -- Anadolu and Rumeli ladies, the highest judges -- through which the case is being reviewed, and if it is not accepted, the case is being sent to the same court or to another court. There are also courts in the Ottoman Empire, outside of the court, which is the normal womanhood, and in the second court of Sadrazam, and in other mansions, there are cases. With these, there's a law enforcement procedure in the form of a court of law. However, the main appearance of the indictment courts in the Ottoman State (June 5, 1879) was taken into effect in 1879 by the Mehakim-i Peacekeeping Act with the Constitutional Law. The litigation courts are in the form of a court, as thought today, between the bidet courts in the Ottoman State and the Court of Divan, the Court of Justice. First of all, I'd like to say what an exception is. I mean, I don't know how many people know what it means, but it means to start a new job in the dictionary, which is to re-examine a decision in legal language, but it means to re-examine it financially and legally. I mean, from the point of view of that understanding, there's no way that the Supreme Court would take the place of the recrimination, so it's not possible to think of the Supreme Court as a dissolution court. The case is called the court of law and the court on which the final decision can be lifted for legal and material reasons, such as the appeal. I mean, the re-enactment of cases filed in civil law or criminal courts as an upper court, the retrial of the case, or the retrial of the court. When we think about it in such a way, we see that the court of law has actually become a court that will resume the role of the Supreme Court today. So, if the number of lawsuits that come to the Supreme Court is 10,000, the same case, 10,000 cases will come to the court this time. It's not really going to change; this time, you're going to increase the red tape a little bit. I mean, how long can the Supreme Court handle his cases, if you think about it today? I mean, it probably depends on each case -- it depends on these apartments, but -- it's going down in about three and a half minutes, maybe even a case file. Now, if you think about it, all the files that are coming to the court of law will be redacted as they were in the Supreme Court. It's just, you say, "We're going to comfort the judge." But it's going to grow in the court of law, just as it does in the Supreme Court of Justice's case. I mean, some of it will be seen in itself, and some of it will be sent back to his old court, and some of it will be sent to the Supreme Court to be examined in accordance with the procedure. So, you're presenting a court form that doesn't do anything but increase bureaucracy. Mr. Secretary will probably tell you about it, but that's exactly what's going to happen, because the same thing happened in the Ottoman Empire. When you talk about its benefits, you do so by saying that the law courts will reduce the burden of the Judiciary, but as you reduce the burden of the Judiciary, you will upload the files that the Judiciary has been charged with this time to the litigation courts, and there will be more prosecutors and judges to whom you will assign to the law courts. You'll find that's not going to be a solution. That's why the court of law was established in 1879, in 1924, with its Constitution removed; that's why it was removed. So I'll continue my talk after this -- it's not going to be a solution. I'll tell you the solution. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0038par0050	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th draft of the current 592 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. Article 17 of Law No. 16 (2577) has been changed in the following way. ▪ Article 17 ▪ 1. A mistrial in prosecutorial and administrative and tax courts and tax cases that exceed 30,000 Turkish liras and tax, such as taxes, pictures and mortars, and tax cases, which amount to more than 25,000 Turkish liras, are held at the request of one of the parties. 2. Courts of appeals and indictments are subject to the requests of the parties and the decision of the Court of State or the relevant district administration court. 3. The request for a hearing can be made in responses and defences with a petition. Sedef Small (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0039par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0038par0062	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0040par0063	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0038par0064	Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0041par0067	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 16th Amendment of the Legislature of 592 rows. I salute your high council. Honorable MPs, 27 in January, 15 in February, 24 in March, 25 in April. It's possible to sequence months and numbers in a row. These numbers are women killed in 2014 by their wives, their fathers, their brothers, their lovers. Now, what we're talking about as numbers are people, women who were taken from life when they were young, and each one of them has a name. For example, the name of one is Remziye; in the vineyard, he was beaten to death by his husband, and in his defense, I beat him just as I always did. For example, one of them was Mubarak, whose husband electrocuted Mubarak because he had given birth to a daughter again at his second birth. Someone else's name is Asiye. Asiye was killed by her husband by 19 stab wounds in Kayseri. She was 23 years old and filed 14 complaints against violence. It's not all numbers or names, it's life, it's proof of how women live on knives in this country. In this country, because the curtain is not close enough, because the phone is busy, because the tea is not well brewed, or because it opened an account on Facebook, but most importantly, because of the mental state of mind, you will not deprive women of the stick and the sieve from their stomach. They are subjected to violence and are killed. There are those who advocate this mentality when we should curse this mentality that legitimizes violence on the woman. I have already stated from this bench that violence against women is a violation of human rights that cannot be justified for any political, religious, cultural reason. Dear MPs, Albert Camus said, "If you want to get to know a country, look at how people have lost their lives in that country." When I look at how women in my country have lost their lives, I feel deep pain and shame for all of us, for every woman's murder, my conscience aches, and I believe that everyone who says they're human has a conscience, but I know that these murders don't stop because I or you have a conscience. We are here, under this roof, to take measures to stop these murders, to follow the law that we've passed, and we all know that law enforcement alone is not enough, it's the actual practice. You see, in this country, I still killed for my namusum. There are prosecutors and judges who signed under this decision, there are policemen who don't perceive the decision to protect by a thousand difficulties, there are religious officials trying to legitimize the violence she sees, and these are not exceptional understandings. Our society has a very serious mental problem. A warped mindset that ignores women, second-rate perceptions of women, is unfortunately still present in 21st century Turkey. No matter what fuels this mentality, no matter who it is, we all have to stand up to it. It's as important as making a law. Dear lawmakers, due to lacks of legislation and mistakes in practice, we sacrifice about 20 of our women each month to such senseless and blind violence. Either we accept that we can't deal with this fact, or we'll shed tears for our lives who leave every day, or we'll take every precaution that needs to be taken, and we'll enforce the law without hesitation, especially deterrent punishments. I stress that every measure we take is the price of a woman's life, and I salute you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0042par0077	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0043par0078	You have a roll call. I'll submit the motion to your votes, there's a call request, and I'll carry it out. Mr. Altay, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Güçük, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Gök, Mr. Haberkes, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Öner, Mr. Batum, Mr. Cihirr, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Seruter, Mr. Aldan. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer the addition of the sign to the sign, instead of the sign of the 17th Amendment, which is part of the current 592 rows of the bill. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Faysal Sarıyıldı Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft of the current 592 rows. Article 1. We propose and provide that the statement in his joke be replaced by the terms of the looker. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Sena Kaleli Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th Amendment of the current 592 Orders Numbered Bill. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Ali Öz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Murat Basesgioğlu Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Reşat Right Mesut Dedeoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0044par0114	It doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0043par0115	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0045par0116	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0043par0117	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0046par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have now said that I would talk about solutions, but I would like to say that in fact, in various times with regard to law enforcement courts, it was removed after the establishment of the Republic of Turkey in 1924. There was a variety of controversy about whether it would work or not to be re-established. As a result, in 1978, Professor Feridun was prepared by Yenisey for a doctoral thesis on this matter. I don't know how many people know about it, but in this doctoral thesis, Yenisey proposed the extended appeal path, which began in Germany in 1971, and adopted the view of the Reform Bill in the Laws that were debated in 1975. The basis of this important proposal is the savings of the new building, equipment and judge, prosecutors, as well as compliance with today's system. I mean, would that really be a savings here or not? So how many judges, prosecutors are you throwing at the Supreme Court, how many buildings, tools are there, and how many new prosecutors, judges, vehicles, and essentials are you going to need when you're setting up a litigation court instead? It's gonna be more than it used to be. Hence, such a way of fitting is not possible. But, for example, there have been some opinions that this is not necessary when it comes to non-constitutional courts. One of them is that the argument was founded in the Middle Ages, not in the law, but in political purposes. Second: the establishment can be adopted by historical and political requirements, not by law. Such a necessity is out of the question for Turkey. It is true that in democratic and autocratic countries there is a lot of dissolution. The exception is very difficult to remove because it is a radical organization in the West. In fact, the theme is for the removal of the collection. Third: Although the Court of Justice may be a good audit for the bilateral court, it may also be possible to neglect the case because it will be examined again. Fourth: 2. The resolution of non-sleep makes it more objective, more collective. That's true. However, in most countries, such as Germany, for example, for light crimes and lawsuits -- which Turkey does not have -- it is considered to be the only way to appeal to serious crimes and cases. In jury courts, there is usually no law against final decisions. In France, there is only one way to appeal against the sentence issued by severe criminal courts. The fifth is that the work of the judge must be reduced, which is also true. But there are other ways. Make sure the Supreme Court's decisions are delivered to judges and prosecutors, preventing a mistrial. However, there will still be an appeal against some final decisions, even in the acceptance of the bill. Number six: It is true that second-degree courts are collateral, but it can also be provided by mass and guaranteeed first-degree courts. In fact, the solution depends, not on the basis, but on the right decision of the court of justice or criminal justice, the courts in the Ottomans, which we call the fucking court. I mean, you can't solve anything unless you turn the first courts into reliable courts. The case will go through the same case files, went to the Supreme Court, where they've been waiting for days, months, years or so. I mean, how are you gonna handle it? Therefore, you must take measures to ensure that the first courts can work correctly or that they can be trusted and judged fairly. I'd like to show you a few examples and ways about it. I mean, how do we make these courts more reliable? Because since cases are usually done within the framework of the judge's own conscience and law enforcement, I think there should be a way to support the judges in this regard. I'll give you the information on him from now on. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0047par0131	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft of the current 592 rows. Article 1. We propose and provide that the statement in his joke be replaced by the terms of the looker. Sena Kaleli (Bursa) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0048par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0047par0139	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0049par0140	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0047par0141	Sena Kaleli Bursa MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0050par0144	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the 17th Article of Bill 592, which is under discussion. I salute your high council. The honorable MPs, who live so that the state can live. Sheikh Edebali, from hundreds of years ago, reminded us of our responsibilities to man and nature. Now live your family and your family so that your kingdom may live. This is the era. The way of the mind is one. We try to fulfill our responsibility to man, nature, and the state by bringing up the shortcomings we see with motions, written-word questions, proposals. How true our work was - even though it was painful - was once again struck in the face with Soma, but it is clear that we have never learned a lesson from what happened. Unfortunately, not only do we know that we're not being considered, but the streets also know that they're showing their natural and legal response to oppression and violence. In 2011, I proposed a six-point law on child deaths and sexual harassment in many articles of the bill we're discussing today, three and a half years passed. Other friends have made offers on the same issues, similar issues. The problem is obvious, it's urgent, it's catastrophic, I'm coming up with it. It's coming up, it's coming up, it's coming up, it's coming up, it's coming up, it's coming up, but unfortunately, we still don't have our minds. Recently, we would stop the Women's Murders gathered at the Dikmen Gate. Why was the platform rightly not included in the aggravated provision for women's murders? And I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, how many more women have to die so that the sanctions on women's murders can be aggravated? Similarly, in our country, which sacrifices more than 1,000 per year to business accidents and occupational diseases, how many people must be killed to increase control, to be held accountable, how many women, how many children, how many workers? Dear MPs, as CHP Women and Children's Rights Watch and Review Commission, we visited prisons on various dates. I'm sorry to say that in our country, prisons are no longer a correctional facility for children, they've become torture sites. In terms of the wheels outside -- these children who want to die -- they can't visit their families, so they continue to commit crimes after being released from prison terms. The biggest problem is whether or not they committed a crime is that they were forced to live under heavy conditions under arrest. Children should be judged quickly, judged differently, separated according to age groups and criminal groups. The conditions, economic and social conditions that set the stage for criminal activity need to be corrected. In terms of deterrentism, information and public opinion are also essential for criminal sanctions. If we act with the awareness that our original values and resources are human beings created and given nature, we won't suffer so much damage and destruction. We can do our duty to the Creator, not only with a spirit, but with a righteous deed, to bring forth our true vision. I ask that our motion be accepted by the fact that the understanding that sees man and nature as a whole, that is a sustainable Ranta, has driven us away from human responsibilities and brought us closer to violence in all areas, and I offer my regards to the grand delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0051par0152	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer the addition of the sign to the sign, instead of the sign of the 17th Amendment, which is part of the current 592 rows of the bill. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0052par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0051par0160	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0053par0161	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0051par0162	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0054par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've been talking about this judgment package for two days. I'd like to point out that we're busy with this parliamentary agenda with the ongoing state of judicial packages. It shows that you think there's something wrong with the justice system, with the legal system, you've made a diagnosis, but unfortunately, you can't bring in a real reform to make serious radical decisions for treatment. I mean, you put the justice system on an operating table, but you do the wrong surgery, and as you do the wrong surgery, unfortunately, you increase the pain and the complications. Instead, if you put a radical reform system, a radical change in the entire justice and legal system on your agenda, this Parliament will spend a serious shift, present a serious arrangement, and perhaps lay the foundation for a new legal system that will make history. There are references to that, too, in the middle. There are now international contracts, international norms that connect us to all modern, democratic law countries. So, in view of the European Court of Human Rights, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, international agreements on children's rights; if you are to change the justice system based on all of this, we believe that this Parliament will sign a historic study, as Turkey is a democratic state of law. Since you did not, we are in the position of the most punished country in the European Court of Human Rights after Russia. So, what this means is that after Russia, we're the 2nd country with the worst legal system. That shame has to be eliminated. Since there is no regulation on this, since there is no inspection, our court committees do not even need to follow the grounds and requirements of international law in any way. Because of their wrongful decisions, each year we have to pay millions of euros in compensation cases from the budget transferred to the treasury with our taxes. Look, the only thing that can be done is that if we put these wrongful court committees under sanction for these compensations, even this would stand in the way of arbitrary law practices at certain points in its own right. But unfortunately, so far, we haven't eliminated this multi-head judicial system, nor have we brought a study of making this judicial system fit to international legal standards into this Parliament's agenda. Today, we're dealing with judicial justice, administrative judgment, military judgment, a multi-head judicial system like this, and a lump of problems that are almost drowning inside each of them. What do we care about that for? We care about this: these regulations will be made quickly, so that these antidemocratic practices will be removed, so that we can take them from the Anti-Terror Law to the antidemocratic substances of the Turkish Penal Code so that we can discuss a real democratic, civil, liberal constitution. Look, this Congress has established a Constitutional Compromise Commission, which can basically reveal a perspective that can solve all of this country's problems, but even in these five articles, we've come to an incontrovertible picture. What's all this stuff? First of all, it's a definition of citizenship in which all 76 million will see themselves in it. Second, a contract that guarantees everyone's freedom of faith. Third, implementing constitutional contracts that will see every difference, every language, every culture as a wealth. The fourth is to take authority from Ankara and place it on the ground. The fifth is about basic rights and freedoms. Even on these five fundamental issues, if we had put international contracts ahead of us and made an arrangement, perhaps today we would have removed a constitution of coups from this country's agenda. Therefore, we invite the government and the ruling party group back to a basic reform of justice and law. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0055par0172	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0056par0173	Yes, I'll submit the motion to your votes, there's a call request; I'll grant it. Mr. Özturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Batum, Mr. Serter, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Bayraktutan and Mr. Öner. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0057par0177	It's over, it's over... Mr. Secretary, it's over...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0058par0178	It's over there! There he is! But you're here, too.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0057par0179	It's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0058par0180	Mr. President, I can't be here...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0057par0181	That's not gonna It's over... Minister, you gave it to me after the time was up. No, sir, not that; it was given after the deadline.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0059par0183	Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0057par0188	Mr. President, are those names here or not, why don't we read them?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0060par0189	Put your glasses on, Mr. President! He's been here ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0059par0190	Sir, let's read it. I don't know if the Congressman is here...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0061par0192	No, but I requested that it be read.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0059par0193	No, he's checking here. Please...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0061par0194	No... of course not!
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0062par0195	They don't look good, they don't look good!
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0059par0196	I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 18th Amendment of the current 592 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 18th article of the current law bill 592 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Faysal Sarıyıldı Erol Dora Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 18 of the current 592 Rows Numbered Bill. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Bornt Belen Yusuf Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Reshad Right Emin Çınar Mesut Dedeoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0063par0222	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0059par0223	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0064par0224	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0059par0225	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0065par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I said I'd talk to you about the solution now. So, in fact, everyone knows that all the files that go to the Supreme Court will go to the litigation courts because it is absolutely certain that every case will go to this region, appeals courts, if you do not organize their first courts -- civil law, criminal law -- unless you give the people the confidence that a fair verdict has been made. So, what's your preventive measure here? There's no information here. So you're interfering with a court of law when you're trying to lighten the court's business. The adjudication courts you've brought in will carry out the same duties as the cases in the Supreme Court, and they'll decide on those files, and, of course, the Supreme Court will hold a number of courts, and they'll hold hearings, but the court of law will do much further or send them back. Now, it is clear that the law enforcement courts will reduce the Court's workload in some way, but the same workload -- the work burden of the court -- will be charged with. Nothing's going to change, and you're going to increase the bureaucracy, so after the trials in one department, after the trials in the court of law, you're going to send some of them to the Supreme Court, and you're going to increase the work even more. Now, here, then, it's clear that the solution isn't a court of law. So what do we do? You'll get the first courts in order. There are two ways to do this; one is: before the courts, as in France and Europe, but now the prosecutors do it to a certain extent, but there, in France, they have institutions that are doing serious research to make a case acceptable. Like these research institutions, you can reduce files that have been sent to court by pre-researching the case and deciding whether or not to prosecute. For example, something like this happens, one person says, "Here, this one doesn't belong to you." But, there's a document, there's everything; it still goes to court, and the case goes to trial, and the case goes on for two years. It doesn't happen in France. It's prejudicial, that case, the trial doesn't open; it's the first way. An apartment about this can be developed, it can be developed, and that way... what's already there is in France, there's no need to learn again. The second issue, I think, is a little more important, and it could be ours. I mean, as a historian, I'm not a lawyer, but there are things in my books that I write about law -- and I know -- that I write about law. Now, what is this? Perhaps you've never heard of it, and the people at law school have never heard of it, but there is one thing: in Ottoman courts -- the sherry courts -- which we call "registers of misery" -- we have their records, perhaps no one has noticed -- there's one thing that our lawyers may not have studied because they don't know Ottoman -- under all the rules of the courts, you see a separate signature, except the woman or the defendant or the plaintiff. It's called the state of the mind, so there's a jury of reliable people in our courts. This jury supervises whether the court is doing the right thing, so it is not the decision maker, as it was in the West. He supervises whether the court is doing the right thing, if it is in accordance with the law, whether the prosecution and the defendant are being questioned correctly, and whether the defence is being given the right way and if the court is being held, and he signs that it is true; this is called the Ottomans, the witnesses of the court, the witnesses of the court, the witnesses of the court. Today, if you bring in a system like this, you'll be bringing in the auto-control system. You can improve it, you can modernize it, and since it will directly affect the records of judges and prosecutors, judges and prosecutors will view themselves as responsible for conducting the court correctly. Here's a solution. Lawsuits aren't the answer, guys. I repeat, you will see, far beyond the Supreme Court, there will be obstructions in the law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0066par0234	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to make now are the same, I will proceed with the motions, and I will make a separate commitment to the motion holders. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 18th article of the current law bill 592 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Faysal Sarıyıldı Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Does the Commission agree with the same motions?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0067par0251	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0066par0252	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0068par0253	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0066par0254	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked for the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0069par0256	Friends, the government is in a hurry; it wants an immediate trial in the world, in universal law, in contracts, in Strasbourg, in The Hague, nowhere. Oh, yeah? In a hurry to bid, in publicization, in privatisation, in promoting tourism, in urban transformation... where is it? By violating and ignoring CED reports in the mining sector; at the risk of disaster, in urban transformation, Turkey wants a swift, hasty, hasty trial in cases that will raise a trillion dollars in budgets! No fuss, no love, we don't understand! Your agenda is your citizen, your people, other than your government; he wants you to rush into a disaster-threatening transformation, and everything must be in a hurry. Guys, even pumpkins don't grow in two months, and you're trying to get justice done in a month. Friends, limit trial time, limit defence time, limit appeal time, limit judges' appeals, limit everything, then ignore the European Convention on Human Rights, ignore the fair trial, ignore the neutral court, ignore the right to defend, ignore the right to defend, eliminate the right to defend, and on top of all that, hurry up, as if it weren't enough! Are you taking the head to the Pasha? What are you in a hurry for? Why didn't you hurry when the children were being raped in the pose? Why don't you hurry up with the trial when the F-16s are dropping bombs on 34 kids in Roboski? Why don't you hurry up with the freedom of the press? Why don't you hurry up about life in the cases of young people who were slaughtered on the Trip? Why don't you rush into SOM, extraordinary courts, ACK cases, similar cases, all of them? Why don't you hurry up with the unsolved cases, make them all time-consuming? Why don't you hurry up with the cases of women's murders? Why don't you hurry up and sell the children? Why don't you hurry up in the fight against prostitution? Why don't you hurry up with the gambling? What's your hurry? What's the rush? What's the rush? Is the rush of justice buried in money? Is money your religion, your faith, everything you have money? Is this country's justice just money or economy or nothing but money? On the way home, in justice, in peace, in solution, why don't you hurry up with everything? Why should justice not be rushed when our people die in the mines of Soma, Şırnak, Şırnak, and our people die in the mines, while my beautiful people, my beautiful people, my beautiful land, the streams of Rizeh, the streams of Artvin, the rivers of Artvin, the rivers of Artvin, are gone? Can you tell me why your justice is only in the tender, why only in the Rantta, why it's only in the interest, why it's in the best interest, why it's in the best interest? What's the rush?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0070par0258	Don't shout!
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0069par0259	You think you can take the law in your own head and make it your own way in court? Do you think this era will go on like this? Shame on you! Shame on the lawyers in your midst! Three days, shame on the AK PARTY lawyers who don't speak to the lawyer who recognizes their right to defend themselves a thousand times!
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0071par0260	(Ankara) Shame on you too!
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0069par0261	What's that like? Three days' notice, a month's decision... can you grow pumpkins in a month? Do any of you have an agricultural engineer who can grow pumpkins in a month? You'll raise justice in this country in a month, won't you?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0072par0262	It changes from zucchini to zucchini, grows in a month!
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0069par0263	The zucchini matches your understanding perfectly!
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0072par0264	If you have no respect for us, respect the bench. What does zucchini have to do with judging?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0069par0265	You can even make a twat in a month, can't you? Money, money, money... money does everything, doesn't it? Money doesn't make conscience, money doesn't make humanity, money doesn't make justice, money leads you astray. The sooner the better. Anyone who's in a hurry is in a hurry. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, in human rights life, you're in bad shape. Your agenda is separate, our agenda is separate.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0073par0270	Thank you. Turgut Dibek, a member of the 40s who wants to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Dibek.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0074par0274	Mr. President, dear friends, matter is a very important substance, and although I do not speak in the heat of Mr. Kaplan, it is a very important substance. While I was talking about chapter one, there are special, dot arrangements that enter this bill, one of them is this rapid trial process, which has been put into this bill in private. Now, there's a 125th Amendment in our Constitution, and I'd like to start there. Now, the 125th article of our Constitution clearly states that all kinds of actions and procedures of administration are subject to judicial control. Now, based on this, this arrangement brings to us that some of the actions of administration, ministries, institutions are closed to judicial control. Perhaps it is not entirely true, but it is much less obvious. This arrangement is very clearly contrary to the Constitution, and I'm going to state the part about it, but our citizens need to understand. Mr. Kaplan may have jumped in the middle because he spoke in a bit of heat. What's the purpose of this arrangement, what's going to happen, I'm going to enter it with a sentence or two, but what's to be done, what actions and actions will be removed from the judiciary, why will they be removed from the practices of the judiciary, and I'd like to briefly mention this. Look, there are six titles. These titles, when we look at them, actually, include the issues discussed in the last December 17th, December 25th corruption operations. These are the headlines of the capital, the most important rank in Turkey. Once, all tender transactions, including the state, all tender transactions of institutions will be subject to a preemptive judicial procedure -- rush publicisation procedures, privatisation Supreme Council decisions, all privatisations will be subject to this procedure; cabinet decisions on urban transformation -- which have added two more issues that were not initially included; sales, allocations, rental procedures, and -- the former minister here, concerned with his department, are the transactions on these CED decisions that concern his department. What were these six titles really -- so that our citizens would understand them better? There are all these tenders -- those thermal plants, nuclear plants, HESEs, city hospitals, other than that, the third airport, publicizations, all of these transactions, all of which, dear friends, will be subject to these judicial procedures. What's it gonna be? Mr. Secretary says the other day, they're going to be sued. Friends, I've been in CED files -- I've been in CED format meetings -- and you're going to say, "In a month's time, file a case." Where, how, how is he going to investigate that case? Fifteen days of response time will be completed after you've filed the case. You say to the court: "You will finish this case within a month. You will then conclude this case within two months of the appeal. Where to? To the court. When we look, from the opening to the end of all those times, six months. In six months, these cases will be over, dear friends. Now, there's no objection to the decision to stop the execution. Sir, there is a Article 11 of the Adjudication Act, which envisions a non-trial course: Applying to higher authorities, such as the authorities, can also address these issues by applying to the top office of the administration. You say no. You leave no way out of the case, you say go to trial. Now, in those times, it's been said that you can't solve these things with the case or anything like that, so don't go into the judiciary. Look, I'll state the 125th article of our Constitution, the 10th article, because it's short. The 10th article of our Constitution states that everyone is equal to the law. He has a long arrangement, but what does his last joke say? The state's bodies and administrative authorities must act in accordance with the principle of equality in all their transactions. Our Constitution has a Article 36, it regulates freedom of rights. Let me read it simply: "Everyone has the right to a fair trial as a prosecutor and a defendant in front of the judicial authorities, taking advantage of legitimate means and means. " The same is said among the international contracts that we signed, the European Convention on Human Rights tells jokes about Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. There's no way to talk about a fair trial with this arrangement, friends, there's a false trial. There is an incident called the principle of equality of weapons, which means the plaintiff and the defendant will seek the rights of this Constitution with equal weapons in Article 36. How's he gonna call? In 15 days, he will not be able to make his objections, but in a month, how will they be gathered? This arrangement clearly violates the Constitution. That's why he's here. It's the Prime Minister's orders. I don't want any judgment on these cases, you'll have to finish them as soon as possible. In a way, you have rights to people, and you can apply to the judiciary. They make this arrangement with the thought of it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This provision will return from the Constitutional Court. In that arrangement you made with the HSYK, we also stated in the Commission, the same arrangements, and so did this. This provision will be returned from 125, 10 and 36. That's why I'm warning you that this clause has to come out of the draft text. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit06spe0075par0286	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 19th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 19th draft of the current 592 rows. Article 8. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Haydar Akar Uşeli Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the final sentence of Article 19 of Article 19 of Law 592, which has been discussed, "the decisions are certain and cannot be applied to the Constitution." Its declaration "is clear to appeal to the decisions and does not apply directly to those decisions." We propose that it be changed into form, and the article 8 shall be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Faysal Sarıyıldız Selma River Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 19th edition of the 592 Orders Numbered Legislature. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Ali Öz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Murat Başesgioğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Reşat Right Mesut Dedeoğlu Born Belen Rusar Demirel S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0076par0028	I disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0075par0029	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0077par0030	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0075par0031	Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0078par0033	Mr. President, members of law, I salute your grand delegation. For the past few years, AKP's legislative priorities have been focused on two points. After the 17th and 25 December corruption incidents, the AKP began to focus on these cases morning and evening. What are these two priorities? One, in order to protect himself and serve his political goals, do not dominate the judiciary by doing whatever pressure necessary. Two: drafting the legal infrastructure of the so-called solution process. Do not provide legal guarantees to all the legitimate or illegitimate powers that work in this area. In order to control the judiciary, arrangements were made to turn the Constitution from behind, to turn the state of law, to undermine the understanding of the judiciary's independence and sovereignty guarantee, and to increase the authority of the Minister of Justice in HSYK. Millions have been manipulated to provide political support for this transformation by the Prime Minister and the government's salvo shots, even by threats and insults, and the judiciary has been digested. Despite all warnings from national and international law, the fight was enforced by combat. This law, which is clear to be returned from the Constitutional Court, was issued to serve the AKP's tenure with the abuse of the Constitutional Court's principle that it can't walk back. This was the message that you were under my command to the open and unconstitutional courts. The Court's Law has been changed. Fifty-one new members were appointed to the prosecution overnight. Changes have been made in the Supreme Court Act. 160 judges have been appointed as a Supreme Court member again overnight. MIT Law has been changed. More regulations have been passed through parliament as laws of protection and protection of the AKP and the Prime Minister. Law has become the law of the superior, and it has been filled to ensure the continuity of political power. Meanwhile, the AKP, the Prime Minister and ministers, the Undersecretary of the MIT and all other officials have been passed laws in order to protect everyone in civilian, uniform, who supports the process. These laws were intended to save only those who have slipped into unlawfulness, regardless of the integrity of the state, unity of the nation and whether the republic contradicts the founding philosophy. The conditions for the terrorist organization's propaganda have been facilitated by tampering with Article 6 of the Anti-Terror Law. The amendment to Article 215 of the TCK was introduced as a new definition of praising the crime and the criminal, allowing the PKK leader and its militants to be praised. Even the governor of the state took advantage of this opportunity, and the valued MPs were listed as the first governor to pay their respects to the baby killer, in the first place on the list of scoundrels. Article 220 (6) of TCK (TCK) gave the organisation a new perspective on crime. A region of our country has now become a territory dominated by lawlessness, betrayal, mountain laws. (8) The definition of organization propaganda in the third joke has been changed. CMUK has been replaced and has been granted defence rights in the main language. In this regard, although there is no problem with legislation or practice, the crimes committed by ACK and PKK defendants in the courts have been legalized. What's going on... and all of this is being liberated, democratized. Along with the lie, the mass communication tools in their hands have been served to the masses. Dear lawmakers, as you can see, these judicial packages do not open to ensure that judicial decisions are more fair, faster, cheaper, and easier to transport. The first four obviously didn't get that result. And it's obvious that there's no good coming out of it, because it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad. It's always indicative of the daily infertile conflicts and the means to save someone from trial. This is the fifth package. It will not ensure that the citizen is brought to justice, it will make things more complicated, it will prolong things. We are already waiting for the sixth package to arrive. God says, "May God grant this country the kingdom of justice at once." I salute the great nation.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0079par0045	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the final sentence of Article 19 of Article 19 of Law 592, which has been discussed, "the decisions are certain and cannot be applied to the Constitution." Its declaration "is clear to appeal to the decisions and does not apply directly to those decisions." We propose that it be changed into form, and the article 8 shall be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0080par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0079par0053	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0081par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0079par0055	Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0082par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. As we've just said, if there's a flaw, you try to fix it, and of course we contribute to the corrections, at least we try to contribute. And I'm not convinced that every law that's been made can be done in full without a lack of anything, and eventually, people do. If there is a mistake in the past, it must be corrected today. Our motion is a little bit more than that, and I hope it's accepted. But that's not what I'm really trying to focus on. Look, we're saying that the legal arrangements for Turkey's urgent problems need to be brought to Parliament's agenda as soon as possible. We renew this request every time. Yes, the negotiating framework law is one of those priorities, a law that must be brought to the agenda of this House as soon as possible. We've made our proposal, we've made our offer of the law, and we demand and desire that it be taken into consideration. In the same way, the regulations that will allow the decoupling of antidemocratic laws must be brought to the agenda of this House as soon as possible, and we are expressing that. However, the government stays away from all of them. He's facing himself, and he's getting a little bit involved in the legal arrangements to save himself, and he seems to be in such an effort, and it's not in public that he's getting a response. There is no response in Parliament, as there is no response in public. Kerhen, there's also a bit of a forced hand-down in Parliament because everyone knows that these are not the urgent needs of Parliament. Look, I also pointed out in my earlier speech that Turkey is facing chaos next semester. We have an organized state mechanism based on the vertical division system, and as of August 10th, this vertical division becomes a double hierarchy. This double hierarchy situation is the biggest chaos in front of Turkey. We say that an urgent constitutional arrangement is necessary, essential. This dress did not match the cover that Turkey had been trying to fit for 90 years. There's been a new tradition, a new social system, and an administrative system in 20, 30 years, and you have to admit that this system doesn't work that way anymore. We sit down and express that the society of Turkey, which will abide by Turkey, should evolve into a system that will be accepted by the peoples living in Turkey; the proposals of the law that we offer are in this framework. We've always expressed here the fact that the transition to ademinaryism -- desantralysis -- is essential, but still, insisting on a system based on one-man sharing -- actually contributes a little bit more to the decay of the system. In the 60 years we've left behind, countries that live in peace all over the world, communities, communities, are the ones that spread their division. More specifically, the societies where modern autonomy methods, the systems, lived in peace for the 60 years we left behind. Since 1921, the practice of modern autonomy has been implemented in Finland and is implemented in many other countries. In 20 countries, in 60 regions, this system is being implemented, and there are no conflicts in any of these regions, as we have in any of these countries, such as in China, in other parts of the world. So the way to think about it is, if this dress doesn't fit into this society, then we have to insist on giving up the habit of putting this dress back on the community and having a new system discussion here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0083par0065	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit07spe0084par0066	Thank you. I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0084par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision on Article 19 of Hakkari MP Adil Zozani and his friends' motion was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions... and the motion is not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 19th of the current Bill of the 592 Rows. Article 8. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0085par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0084par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0086par0014	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0084par0015	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0087par0018	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, before this, many packages were brought in with the speed of the judiciary or democratization or other names. Now that I've forgotten those numbers, I think you've forgotten them. But none of these packages have solved the problems of the judiciary or the problem of political power because what the political government has done in the house doesn't fit the market; it makes a calculation in the house, it goes into a deadlock, it sets a law based on the majority of Parliament to solve problems, but it creates a law again a month or two later when it can't solve problems with that law. The more important issue of the judiciary today is the lack of fair satisfaction and the continued judicial activity that cannot be trusted in the judiciary. But another problem that we have encountered in the last days of power is the conflict between the government and the Fethullah Gulen congregation, which the government has called the parallel structure. In this fight, the law is the basis for this fight, which is actually based on the judiciary, so the judiciary is injured and the law is damaged. In fact, it is clear that both the government and the fethullah Gulen congregation, which is called the parallel structure, have no thought, no desire to build a more fair, more habitable country for a citizen. I've said several times on this stand that the main goal of both groups is to share power, government power, power of state, is to take over, and this statement has been made. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is the result of such a conflict. The main theme here, the main objective of the government bringing this package, in fact, is that after the 2010 Constitutional referendum, the judges and prosecutors themselves understood that they were not their own people, and now, in the Supreme Court and at the Court, there's no doubt, my dear friends, that they're liquidating that community they call the parallel structure. As a matter of fact, when we looked at the Law on State, a scientific board was established eight years ago in the Ministry of Justice to address the issues of administrative trial concerning this State Law. This scientific board does not bring in the entire draft of contributions from representatives of various institutions and organizations, where the stockpile is taken, brought here, and is now created a small Court of Investigation. The staff of what we call the parallel structure in the court will be purged, and for that, there is a Court of Investigation. Is it possible to shift the balance there? The whole account, the balance of the Court. There's only one thing this government's done since I became a congressman -- based on arithmetic accounts or balance accounts like this -- is to constantly play with arithmetical balances based on the majority in Parliament. My dear friends, in fact, in nature, balance is a relative concept. What's absolute is instability. She had Nadia Comaneci, you know, walking on a balance beam, and even she had to fall in the end. While this political government is computing such balances, it's actually going to fall off the balance beam itself, he doesn't realize it. Such swift judgment is brought, but the decisions made through immediate judgment are excluded from the indictment. So now the political government doesn't like the structure of this judgment, and it's trying to create a new one. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He'll come back from this one day tomorrow, try to build another structure, but he won't last long. My respects.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0088par0029	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 20: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In the first sentence of Article 2 of the 20th article of the current law bill, 592, we propose and propose that the statement of the report be changed in the form of a consultation. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Faysal Sarıyıldı Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 20th edition of the current Bill of the 592 Rows. We offer and propose the addition of the following joke. N) Cases involving hydroelectric power plants licenses. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 20 of the current 592 Orders Numbered Bill. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Murat Basesgioğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Ali Halaman Ali Öz Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Bkent Belen Rusar Demirel You got it, Lightning Faruk Bal Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0089par0059	The Constitution does not agree with the Commission's motion, since there has been no conflict with the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0088par0060	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0090par0061	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0088par0062	You have asked for a word on the motion, Lightning, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0091par0065	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on the 20th Amendment of the underlying Law Bill 592 rows. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the sense of justice and justice is as old as known human history. People have been seeking justice and justice throughout history. Here we are today, a reliable state, a fair state, a state of respect for human rights. Trust and justice among its citizens is the main duty of the state, the democratic state. The healthier the democratic institution and rules work for him in a country, the more fair the people of that country have faith in the state. When trust in justice is shaken in a country, there is chaos and chaos in that country. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, in our country, trust in justice, so trust in the state is getting less and more shaken every day. Court decisions and interference in courts are discussed on television almost every day. Our country is being criticised by the states that we are supposedly imitating every day in freedom and freedom of the press and justice, and they set a precedent for our country in this regard with the world's most backward countries. In the face of all of this, the Prime Minister is trying to explain it as a way to avoid it whenever Turkey is going to do something, whenever it's going to go forward, but I want to say that it's not possible. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid in our country, trust in justice has been shaken and has been diminishing every day. In Turkey, trust in the judiciary is now at its lowest levels and down to 27 per cent. Mr. Prime Minister, the majority of all democratic institutions and rules are ignoring it based on the vote, trying to explain every move he's made. Dear lawmakers are 43 per cent of the vote received by the Justice and Development Party in the last election, and the Prime Minister considers it right to break democratic institutions and rules based on it, and he has the right to break the law. However, I would like to point out to Mr. Prime Minister that Bezar Assad, who had declared himself a dictator, received 89 per cent of the vote in Syria in the last election. In addition, this vote is considered transparent and legitimate by international observers. Now from here, I ask Mr. Prime Minister whether Bezar Assad is a dictator or not. Is it possible to explain your actions with democracy? So with a majority vote, he's entitled to take all the rules of democracy, all the institutions under his own protection? It's a shame we don't have to ask these questions here anymore. Is this judgment package that comes before us due to a need of our nation, or is it being made to protect and protect someone, or is it being used to keep promises somewhere? You can't do that. You have to stop doing that. Dear AKP lawmakers, have you ever read these legislations? Do you have any will in these laws, or do you feel humiliated? Or do you serve as a notary here? Dear lawmakers, the 20th article of the bill organises appeals in court against the rulings of the court of law. The Courts of Honor, the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals would like to be set up on grounds such as reducing the workload, guaranteeing a fair trial, accelerating the judiciary. None of these grounds will be eliminated by the establishment of the law-written law courts outside. In essence, the lawless courts in political regimes adopted the state system are in the draft as a pioneer of the administrative installments that the AKP will bring up with the presidential system. The bill violates the principles of unitary state structure, nation integrity, legal state, judicial independence, judicial guarantees, equality and fair trial. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, we demand that the 20th article of the bill be removed from the draft text, and we expect your support for this motion. On this occasion, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0092par0079	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 20th edition of the current Bill of the 592 Rows. We offer and propose the addition of the following joke. N) Cases involving hydroelectric power plants licenses. Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0093par0087	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0092par0088	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0094par0089	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0092par0090	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0095par0093	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've just told you, the main purpose of this package is to try to rebuild the balance created by this government after the 2010 Constitutional referendum in both the State and the Supreme Court, and that's the goal. Therefore, structures in the Court and the Supreme Court are being tried to organize. For example, today, there is a legal arrangement in which the State's Secretary of State cannot be changed, even though the government is asked to do so much. The fact that some judges in the court are not satisfied has to be taken into account by the government, but, of course, how useful it will be to the government, we'll all see that in the coming days. Because that's what happens when you don't form an independent and impartial judgment in this country, if you don't lean on judges who can act equally for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I just told you that the main objective in the administrative judiciary is the establishment of adjudicial courts. There are also changes in the process of judging. Here, based on the amount of decisions made in the first-degree courts, a law that has never been laid off has been laid down. In the previous system, in fact, there's an appeal for all of them regardless of the subject and the amount, while the law is open, there's a shutdown here. Again, there's no law against these decisions. These decisions have been finalized in the immediate process of judgment. The 20th article is considered to be limited in 14 articles, in which decisions you can appeal for, but you can't go beyond that. Here, tax cases, which are larger than 100,000 Turkish liras, have been counted as limited in terms of full judicial cases, cases that lead to administrative procedures, and 14 articles such as this. Dear lawmakers, the appeal path has been opened by limiting the amount and subject to the decisions taken into account. All this suggests is that today's system is reversed, so its feet are up and its head is down. I think, in the coming days, they'll try to figure out another way to make up this system again. However, it is also decided that the establishment of regional administrative courts, numbers and places to be established will be appointed by the Minister of Justice. Personally, I think it's against the Constitution. In fact, I think the fact that the numbers and places of the district administration courts here are not determined by law will be a problem for our Constitutional Court Article 142, because I think about how to set up the courts, how to set them up, and how not to leave their numbers to the Minister of Justice. Again, there is an arrangement in this administrative judiciary, which has been ruled that, at their request, the presidents of the State, the heads of the department and their members can be appointed to the chair of the district administrative court or office. In fact, the fact that this verdict has been issued shows that what I just said is that the main theme is to create a small Court of Investigation in the fields and to change the balance in the State's favor. In fact, such a system has been predicted to be similar to the practice of French administrative law courts, but as far as I know, in the French system, it has only been recognised to be appointed to the members of the Court of State and to the heads of administrative law courts. I know that's the way it is. Let them correct me if I'm wrong. I can't understand why a Chief Prosecutor's Office would want to be appointed head of the district administration court, especially the head of the district administration court, and it's not understandable for a normal human intelligence. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0096par0102	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In the first sentence of Article 2 of the 20th article of the current law bill of 592, we propose that the declaration of the document be changed into,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0097par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0096par0110	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0098par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0096par0112	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0099par0115	You've made this law, this bag so urgent, that you've mixed it up so much that you've mixed up the task and the authority... so why don't you try doing something right, I'm really surprised. Look, we've just counted your immediate and immediate business. You've filed a sentence here: you go to court, you don't go to court, you do not go to court. And then, you say, "Study courts look at cases worth less than $100,000." Since those over 100,000 will go to the State, why don't you send them to the Court of Investigation? So why aren't these cases available in the department? No. So, let me ask you one more thing: this urgent, urgent business, the State Department says in Article 18: "In two months, it will be decided." So, what is the verdict on cases that will be held in the Court? Now, there's the same thing here: privatisation, tourism incentives, environmental law, minerals, these are urgent. You're coming to the prosecution's cases: the Committee for the Protection of Natural Beings, cultural commissions. Well, isn't that the environment, this is the mine, isn't it? The mines, the quarry, the forest, geothermal resources and other minerals -- why aren't they in the DA's office doing all that urgent work? Friends, let me tell you something: you are violating the right to a fair trial in the European Convention on Human Rights, the rights of appeal, all rules of persecution, the decisions made by the Assembly, the 90th Amendment of the Constitution, the ruling that international contracts in Article 90 of the Constitution are under law. We're talking about a bag that violates the Constitution. In this bag, you counted the cases to go to the State, four or five pens. Well, won't the laws of the law go away? Aren't the decisions on human rights violations gonna go away? The decisions made by the security forces won't go away? If the public ombudsman's office wants to sue tomorrow, won't it? Isn't the Human Rights Board going to be able to do something about it? So the administration is so arbitrary, so irresponsible... that when everyone wants to put 50,000 police officers in Istanbul, Incumbent Square... don't any of these decisions have administrative control? You guys are doing it wrong. You're making a mistake in this arrangement, like a bag of laws that fit every aspect of life. Oh, it'll get better in the wrong time... It won't get better, my friends. You will politically change your philosophy of view of justice and judgment. The International Criminal Tribunal considers crimes against humanity and war crimes against human rights. Why doesn't the government sign it? Why don't you sign the International Criminal Court? Again, I'm here to make it very clear to you, why don't you sign the frame agreement? Why do you put it in the Civil and Political Rights Convention? If you love children so much, why put them in the Children's Rights Convention? The Universal Convention on Children's Rights comes to Parliament, the Convention on Civil and Political Rights comes to Parliament, economic and social contracts come to Parliament, and you put them on hold, and you sign them with reservations. You're creating a timid, dysfunctional country air. Why is Turkey so scared? Why is Turkey afraid of its people? Is there anything more natural than that for children to have their own identity and culture, their own natural life? Why are you afraid of that? What's more natural than your own language, your own culture, creating equality between people? Here, the sense of justice thrives before money, in faith and in conscience, friends, not in wallets. Has anyone seen justice flourish in the wallet? In what world, in what country, is there justice in the wallet? It does not grow in Copta, nor does it grow in TOMA, nor does it grow in tanks, nor does it grow in gas. In tolerance, it can pass through this life by teaching the consciousness of faith in law in democracy to the children you taught from kindergarten. We invite the Justice and Development Party to justice. Come on, we're asking you to bring justice to life for your own sake, with respect.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0100par0121	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0101par0125	Request roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0100par0126	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Batum, Mr. Akar, Mr. Acart, Mr. Young, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Turkmen, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Öz, Mr. Small and Mr. Cihaner. Yeah, I'll give you four minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 21: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We offer and propose the addition of the declaration for this work to be added after the declaration of "Preparation for this work," which is included in Article 2 of the 21st article of the current 592 rows of the bill. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Selma River Fair Zozani Faysal Sarı Yıldız Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 21st of the current Bill of the 592 Rows. The terms of the 48th Article of the Law, which is included in the second article of Article No. 2577, are in the form of the Court of Justice of the Court of State, in the form of the Third Amendment, and we propose and propose that the declaration of the Court of State be added to the Court of State, which is in the form of the third one. Turgut Dibek Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Now, the motion to read is a motion to violate the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 21st of the current Bill of the 592 Rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Bulent Belen Ali Öz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Murat Basesgioğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0102par0161	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0100par0162	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0103par0163	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0100par0164	Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0104par0166	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. The most important power that sustains a state is justice - not a cannon, not a rifle, not the height of a national income per minute, not the large army armed with heavy weapons. If the state in its citizens is convinced that those who run that state are unfair, not all the values we count are worth anything. The power that sustains the Ottomans is six hundred years, that's justice. The subjects were able to appeal to the women and receive their dues against the sultan and those who ruled the state. As a commission, when we visited the Spanish Parliament as the Civil Code Compromise Commission, we all enjoyed the response, even though we were indeed from different parties, when we asked why the portrait of Sultan Süleyman had been hung on the wall in the hall where they accepted us. I think you'll like that answer. That's exactly what the valued lawmakers said: it's a big deal when a king who rules China makes laws that will bind him when he has no obligation, especially then. His image is most worthy of the wall of a parliament. There were 40 pictures of scientists, politicians and jurisprudence who were hanged in the Senate of the United States of America, who served law, democracy, and one of them was the painting of Sultan Süleyman. Dear lawmakers, we've said over and over again that we can't live the memory of our ancestors, our grandparents, in all parliaments. If a corner were to be separated, with its laws, with its images of conquerors, the Laws, statesmen such as Cevdet Pasha, Dursun Bey, Ebussuud Bey, Ibni Kemal, Koçi Bey, Kâtip Çelebi Bey, really, if the pictures of the rulers and thinkers who served the law were hung and their contributions to the future generations would be bad if we did so by hand? I'd like to remind you once again that our Parliamentary President is in charge of this matter. I invite the entire General Assembly to be sensitive about this. Of course, in order to specify sensitivity in this regard, the majority of parliament must also look at its legal report card. If, as far as it's concerned, it's democratic and fair enough, which, unfortunately, is what he's drawn so far -- would it be possible to expect such sensitivity, respect for the law? The contempt of the prime minister's high judgment, the judge, is evident in the harsh words that will truly bleed the heart of every consciencer he has ever made against the prosecutor. We expect a lot from the mindset, which sees itself in the position of instructing the judge, which says, "Do not follow the prosecutor's instructions." As he would have wanted in the 17 December and 25 December corruption files, I think -- unfortunately -- to play pens. The AKP itself is a risk to the law, valuable MPs, a threat. Whatever the number of the judicial packages brought in, it will serve only the daily needs of the AKP (AKP) and the Prime Minister. The smallest positive contribution to the judiciary, sir, is that there is not the slightest adjustment in the judiciary. Don't waste people's time, precious deputies. Do you or do you not want the existence of the law that binds you as well as the law? Actually, that's the whole point. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0105par0174	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 21st of the Common Bill 592 rows. The terms of the 48th Article of the Law, which is included in the second article of Article No. 2577, are in the form of the Court of Justice of the Court of State, in the form of the Third Amendment, and we propose and propose that the declaration of the Court of State be added to the Court of State, which is in the form of the third one. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu (Trabzon) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0106par0181	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0105par0182	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0107par0183	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0105par0184	Volcano Canalioğlu, Tripoli MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0108par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the Turkish Penal Code No. 592 and the Bill of the Law to Change Some Laws. Now, the bill is being discussed, but there are not enough of our AKP MP friends here. We want roll call, he comes running backstage. You know what this looks like, guys? Now, as a Black Sea criminal, he comes to court with his lawyer, goes before a judge. The judge is asking...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0109par0190	The foundation?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0108par0191	...he asks the Black Sea Popeye: "My son, did you commit this crime? Did you do it? Did you do it? Did you do it? Did you do it??" I did it. He admits his crime. Finally, he says, "Well, do you have anything to say?" He says, "Lord, let my lawyer next door say something." My son says, "You have accepted everything, what will he say?" That's what I'm curious about, Judge. He says. Well, friends, wouldn't you be curious? I mean, what do these opposition MPs say? They're making motions on this law. How true these motions are, how many things, let's take advantage of them. According to him, Mr. Secretary, there's no question that the Commission will consider the motions. So let's just get this law over with and let's get this law over with, and let's say those who don't, and let's get out of here quickly, go to our kids or our constituency, the idea of working. Dear friends, everyone loves to rule, but those who rule must be fair, to uphold the law, not the law of power, but the power of law. But unfortunately, that's not what we've seen in the past period. Look, our Minister of Justice is here now, the Commission is here. Ya, the country has become so... let's take Tripoli, where citizens are waiting to be put in prison in our Beşikdüzü district. Yeah, does a citizen want a prison? Of course not. But we've come to a situation where if there's a prison here, there's employment here, there's economic contribution to the environment; there's the idea of prisoners, relatives of prisoners, hosts, places, drinks, and an economic movement. But who wants prison, who wants prison? For it to happen, it wants to have just governments and to strengthen people financially. Now, we asked our Minister, thanks to him, and he answered, we said: "We had 57,932 executive files in our province of Trabzon in 2002, and that number rose to 113,939, as of 12/7/2013, and went up to 3 executive offices with 1 executive office. Has there been any study of these? Why are people acting? Citizens, why is the shopkeeper a victim? Look, guys, did you hear about the garages on the 7th? There's a garage on the 7th. You know what? They're where the foreclosure cars are taken and delivered as bedits. We have no place to put them in Tripoli, and they are full, and there is no place left for them. We call it mercy. There's nothing to do with any of this. Now, this is the situation in the cradle. There was also a decision from the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which had been asked to close the court, based on the labour force, with Decision 347 of 15/6/2012. However, when we looked at it, the decision to be shut down in the seven counties had been made in Tripoli, then the closure of Arakak, Çaykara and Tonya's courts had been lifted with the right decision. However, the Shalpazars and Cradle Courts have been closed here. These counties are our largest counties, and the district of Shalpazarı stays on the inside, and it takes time for them to get to the beach. You get a criminal record, you go down to the beach. Yeah, this guy doesn't have any money, he doesn't have any stamps, he's gonna pay for a car, he's gonna have a bagel, he's gonna drink tea, he's gonna give you the money in his pocket. Why are you putting all this away? You know what that was then, fellas? It was the municipality of the Shalpazarı HHP, from the two counties, and Çikdüzü was the municipality of CHP. That's what they thought at the time. Now what? They've all been transferred to the AKP. Okay, so why are we equating politics at the time with forward politics? You're having another party today, and another one can go to another party. And I also want to say here, forest keepers, they say: "Ya, we carry weapons in the line of duty, but we don't have a license to carry weapons after duty, and we have high tuition money." That's worth considering, too. If the Mukhtars are the key elements of the local government, I say we expect your contribution at the point of reevaluating the fees of this weapons license, I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0110par0202	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0111par0203	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit08spe0110par0204	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0110par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 21st article, there was not enough decision to vote on the motion of Tripoli MP Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We offer and propose the addition of the declaration for this work to be added after the declaration of "Preparation for this work," which is included in Article 2 of the 21st article of the current 592 rows of the bill. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0112par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0110par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0113par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0110par0015	I'm reading the reason: The change aims to repair the current narration disorder and to make the matter clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the decrees to be made after the 4th draft of the 22nd article of the current law bill 592 rows. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Faysal Sarıyıldı Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 22nd edition of the current Law Bill 592. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. اc) It is not to be obeyed by the laws of the law Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Haydar Akar Uğur Bayraktutan Now, the motion to read is a motion to violate the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 22nd edition of the current 592 Rows Numbered Bill. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Bornt Belen Yusuf Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Reshad Right Emin Çınar Mesut Dedeoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Ali Öz Faruk Bal Murat Basesgioğlu Lütfü Türkkan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0114par0046	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0110par0047	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0115par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0110par0049	Yes, Lütfü Türkkan who wants to make a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0116par0051	Mr. President, I'd like to remind you of the amendments to the Turkish Penal Code we're discussing. Last week, Spanish Supreme Court Judge Enrique Lopez resigned from his post. The reason is, he ran a red light on his motorcycle. No helmet on his head, and on top of that, he was drunk. After the incident, after his resignation, he explains: "There's nothing I can defend in this case, there's nothing I can defend myself with. Can we think of such a thing in Turkey? Never and to the floor. The Minister of Justice is on the phone, giving instructions to the same judges. Once upon a time, there was a Doğan Wrestling Pasha, and the judges gave orders, and the judge carried them out. He shows up, the speech's being published, there's nothing from the judge. Now I remind those judges once again of this Enrique Lopez. That's a good example of resigning from your duties, a good example of piety. If they're righteous, I suggest they follow their own path. I'd like to tell you a few more things about the law. We've established parliamentary investigative commissions to investigate incidents that fell to the public on December 17th and 25th to ensure law in Turkey, and we've decided to establish it, but we still haven't. Why? Because the Justice and Development Party has not yet reported members of this Commission. The reason is to prevent discussion in society before the presidential election. So do you believe in law or not? If you believe in law, why don't you recommend an MP to this Investigation Commission? The goal is to hang out after the presidential election, to keep this issue, which we call an anti-corruption operation in Turkey off the agenda. How true that is, you'll see in the presidential election. Look, there's a lot of lawlessness in Turkey. With some changes you will bring to the Turkish Penal Code, you will not be able to prevent the height of lawlessness. In Diyarbakır, three brothers, aged 6, 7 and 10, have repeatedly complained of years of violence and sexual abuse by three police officers. Despite the children's statements, despite the information obtained from the journals, the police in question end up without a statement without being followed. Look, I'll tell you one thing: three kids, 6, 7, 10 years of age, have been harassed for years, they've been sexually abused for years, and the police won't even testify. In the absence of law, you can make all the changes you want in the Turkish Penal Code, and if there is no need to be testified by the judges there, you can't judge anyone in this system of law, no one will know your law. But you can make laws that protect yourself, that protect the nation's children from abusers, bastards, dishonorable people. Is that the kind of work you do? Empathy, we have our own children. That's the kind of abuse he deals with, and the government stays silent about it. I think this sin is enough for all of us. There's been talk of sexual abuse in this law. There are 13-14-year-old brides in Turkey. This is the truth of Turkey. I'm curious, I'm really curious, isn't the marriage of a 13-14-year-old child an abuse? Is it a 13-14-year-old boy who can choose who he wants to marry, that he's smart enough to be a man's wife? How can such a thing be possible, and how can consciences make it possible? Stop this harassment, stop putting up with child molestation laws, these habits in society, and start underestimating them. Thank you, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0117par0060	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0118par0062	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit09spe0117par0063	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who don't agree... there's not enough decision-making, so I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0117par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 22 there was not enough decision on the decision to vote on the resolution of the Parliamentary MP Lütfü Türkkan and his friends. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Yes, there's been a disagreement between the Clerk members, so I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 22nd edition of the current Law Bill 592. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. اc) It is not to be obeyed by the laws of the law Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0119par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0117par0016	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0120par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0117par0018	Uður Bayraktutan, Artvin MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0121par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge on the 22nd article of the Law Bill 592 rows. I salute your high council. In fact, Mr. Secretary, if you hadn't been here, I would have had another conversation, but I would like to share with the High Council a matter that I've discussed with you about the Publicisation Act in particular. You know, Artvin, both the Deeper Dam and the city of dams, are a city that is very heavily publicized. In 2001, there was also a significant change in the Publicisation Law, referred to as the Dervis Law. That's what my fellow lawmakers in the ruling party group know. In the previous Legislative Act, the normal person was suing for a price increase in 30 days if he didn't like the price, followed by the case of increasing the price if the case passed through the Supreme Court, and if it was approved, he would receive the money. Now, these have changed, my dear friends, with the change in the Law on Publicisation, which was made in 2002. Now I want to tell you what happened. Now a value commission is coming to a place -- especially since you're interested in them -- says: "How much does the location of this place cost, how much is it worth?" He says, for example: "If the citizen likes the price given, if the citizen sees it right, then I agree to hand it over." The citizen was suing. Now, after the amendment to the Publicisation Act, the citizen is no longer pressing charges, the state is suing. And when the state sues, there's an incident where, for example, they estimate $10,000 as soon as the first appreciation commission is made. After that, this goes to the case, and if the case is priced 20,000 liras, as soon as the lower court decides, the lower court's decision is final, and the price for increasing property is subject to appeal. So, on the day of the lower court's decision, the deed is transferred, but there's a problem with the price, even though the registration is final. I've shared this with our Artvin MP, and we share the same thoughts. But if there's a problem with the price, he goes to the Supreme Court this time. I mean, what I'm trying to say is that the citizens who don't like the price the appreciation commission has paid for $10,000, the moment the court pays 20 grand, the Court pays the citizens without expecting the decision. By the way, what's the file doing? There is no problem if the Supreme Court restores the decision when it is appealed by the administration, my dear friends, but if the Supreme Court breaks the decision, the price of first appreciation is the right price. That 20 thousand lira is a steep price. If the court decides to extradite 10,000 liras for the lecture, then the apocalypse breaks. That's what we're going through in Artvin. Artvin executive offices have files called maybe 1,000, maybe 1,500 trillions. What's happening this time? When he breaks the case, the Supreme Court comes to the lower court, and the lower court has to comply with the Supreme Court's decision, and when he obeys the judge's decision, he has to charge the price by force through the first discretionary commission. Then it's up to the citizen to pay the extra price he's paid, and he's putting a civil citizen into action. The problem now is that when the State Water Affairs General Office executes it, it does not receive money from the citizen. Because what's he doing? When a citizen's first price is paid, he goes, buys a yacht, buys a floor -- he doesn't buy a yacht, but he buys a car, buys anything, so he spends his money in a sense. There are serious problems coming from here in that sense, Mr. Secretary. I would expect this to prevent such a change in the Law of Publicisation. Look, in the coming days, in the coming years, or in the months, there will be a very serious publicisation at Artvin. The whole Yusufli is being removed, dear friends. We probably don't have a congressman who doesn't know that. If we have the same problems here, there's a chance that the government and the citizens will face problems caused by this law. I've offered a law on this, but I've also told my friends in the ruling party group, so that we don't have to take advantage of it in any other way, so that we don't have to think about it in any other way, and I said, let's make an adjustment to the Publicization Act within a bag of law. Let's solve the arrangements or problems that can bring the citizens to life, to face the state, to face the citizens, especially in a district like Yusufeli, when a whole town is being nationalized. And I can tell you about the past, probably within the next week, there will be a pardon for interest within the bag of law. Today, in the executive offices of Artvin, in the Oğrakka, in Shavşat, in other executive offices, the state faces the citizens. In terms of current files, we can solve the problem if we remove interest without touching the principal money in the enforcement trails stemming from publicisation in pardons related to interest. The only way we can do this in the Law on Publicisation is if after the decisions are issued, we block the public and state with the highest interest of the lower court, without paying the citizens, on the condition that they pass through the Supreme Court, on the condition that we don't confront the citizens and the state. This problem, really, seriously, may not concern a lot of people here, but it's a very serious problem, especially in places where there's publicisation. I wanted to present him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0122par0031	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "determinations" be added after the 4th draft of Article 22 of the current 592 row bill. Fair Zozani (True) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0123par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0122par0039	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0124par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0122par0041	Pervin Buldan, Iğdır MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0125par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have been given the right to a amendment motion on the 22nd amendment to the underlying bill. I salute the General Assembly. I also touched on something in the 7th article yesterday. When the 7th article was discussed, I had a say in the amendment motion on behalf of the group, and I spoke of Moses Çitil. I've tried to tell you a little bit about what this Moses Çitil has done and what he has received so far, and I'd like to share with you today what Moses Çetil did here today regarding the two women who had been abused and raped. Musa Çitil served as Brigadier General in Mardin province 13 years ago in Derik district of Mardin province and in the massacre of 13 villagers there, his name is reflected in public opinion. But we've come to know that Moses Çitil was not only involved in the killing or killing of 13 villagers, but also in the sexual assault and rape of two women. I'd like to brief you on that. Mardin Deriktü Ş. A. A woman named Musa Çetil is taken into custody and is subjected to harassment and rape in custody; she also states that the person responsible is Musa Çetil. Over the years, Moses Çitil, who was then a captain, is being tried for prosecution. However, before the trial was filed in Turkey, the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey, Ş. He condemns the rape and sexual assault of A. (A.) in custody. Following this sentence, a lawsuit will be filed at Mardin Heavy Penal Court, but the court will issue an acquittal against Musa Çitil, despite the European Court of Human Rights ruling, and Musa Çitil will be saved by the judges. S. A. Because of his trauma, he is sentenced to live a lifetime with his two children, with this heavy responsibility and pain. Regarding Moses Çitil, he also referred to the C. E. A woman by the name makes statements. S. E. The woman in his name, I can't carry this burden anymore, so I want to talk about it now. Please help me. He'll scream. S. E. One day he tells his story in a place exactly like this, and what he tells is very terrible, valuable lawmakers: In 1993, Mardin Mazıdağıdaşda Ş. E's been taken into custody. The soldiers claim that he was involved in the shooting the day before and that there was a bomb in their home. S. E. He denies the charges. The commander, who is in charge of them, instructs the soldiers to take him to the grave. S. E. He is stripped naked and put in a car wheel and blindfolded and sexually harassed and raped while inside the wheel of a car. He's in bad shape, he loves it. When he wakes up, he's hanged and electrocuted, and he'll pass out again. Meanwhile, the torture chamber is called a doctor. Doctor, S. He gives an injection to the E.L., and when he regains consciousness, he gets tortured again. S. E. After a while, he'll be released. Soon after his release, his villages were burned by soldiers, and he was forced to emigrate. S. E. In the case of Musa Çetil, we will meet again, dear friends. That's why if we don't punish Musa Çitil and Musa Çitil, if justice doesn't judge him, if the law doesn't punish him. A. And S. E. Women such as women say that when they are taken into custody after this, they will face sexual harassment and rape when they are put in prison, which I once again remind the government of the responsibility of power, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit10spe0126par0052	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, it's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0126par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd draft of the current 592 rows. Article 1. We offer and offer to replace the description of the seven days in his joke with the description of the ten days. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Tanju Özcan Haydar Akar To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the 2nd amendment of Article 23 of the current law bill 592 should be changed into "questioning." Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Selma River Fair Zozani Faysal Sarı Yıldız Erol Dora Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd edition of the 592 Orders Numbered Bill. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Reshad Right Murat Basesgioğlu Ali Öz Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz Bkent Belen Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0127par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0126par0030	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0128par0031	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0126par0032	Mr. Oral...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0129par0033	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0126par0034	I'm reading the reason: This is 2577 S. Your law is 50. It applies to the court of law. The Court of Appeals and the Court of Appeals would like to be set up on grounds such as reducing the workload of work, providing for a fair trial, accelerating the judiciary. None of these grounds will be eliminated by the establishment of the bill-written law courts. On the contrary, if the bill is adopted, there will be no first-class judges and prosecutors in the court of law and administrative jurisdictions. As a third-level trial between the first-degree courts and the Supreme Courts, it will lead to an unbearable increase in judicial costs. In the first-degree court of evidence, the introduction of new evidence, the principle of direct examination of evidence will create new problems that Turkish law does not recognise. The structure of legal security, which protects the strong who are due to the nature of the argument, and protects evil will, will undermine the rule of legal security, which protects the corruptness of the criminal court by concealing evidence in the first degree court. If the court of law violates the first-degree court's decision, it will be subject to a massive workload, as it is in its jurisdiction, since it will decide on its own. It will be due to different implementation of the law in areas that are under jurisdiction, which will bring up the confusion and confusion and further the concept of multi-law. Admissible courts in political regimes, which have essentially adopted the state system, have been imposed as a pioneer in administrative division, which the AKP will bring up with its presidential system. The bill, on the other hand, is aimed at liquidating the Supreme Judiciary bodies due to the December 17th-25th investigation after politicising the judiciary in 2010. In the first year of the Republic, which was imposed for 40 years during the Ottoman Empire, it was lifted due to the unitary state structure in 1924. In addition to the ECHR Convention of this arrangement, brought with the bill, it is no.7. It has nothing to do with the L.O. protocol. The bill violates the principles of unitary state structure, nation integrity, legal state, judicial independence, judicial guarantees, equality and fair trial. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 23 of Law 592, which is currently in session, be replaced by the "investigation" of the 2nd verse of Article 23 in the 2rd amendment to the "investigation." Fair Zozani (True) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0130par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0126par0054	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0131par0055	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0132par0056	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0126par0057	I'm reading the reason: The amendment has been replaced by a public statement of inquiry, which is understood by the public, and is thus intended to make the text of the law more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd draft of the current 592 rows. Article 1. We offer and offer to replace the description of the seven days in his joke with the description of the ten days. Tanju Özcan (Bolu) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0133par0066	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0126par0067	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0134par0068	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0126par0069	Tanju Özcan wants a word on the motion, Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0135par0072	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express our thoughts on the 23rd article of this bag of legislation on behalf of my group. Of course, before I started my words, two days ago, an incident took place in Bolu, a large part of the national press; a younger brother, a sister, a sister from the university, was killed in one of the strangest murders of Turkey. The murder has not been illuminated in all its aspects. I specifically beg the Minister. I would really like to say that I expect special help from you to shed light on all aspects of this incident, according to the defendants' defenses, which have created a huge infinitive in Bolu, which is at least reflected in the press in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, many of our MPs have taken their word on this law. Of course, I personally agree with a significant part of what our lawmakers, especially members of the opposition parties, say, but I regret to say -- just like our Tripoli MP -- that many ruling party MPs, I don't see that there's a lot of concrete thinking about what's being discussed right now. I regret to inform you that many of our friends have not yet developed an opinion on these very important legislation. Of course, Mr. Secretary lives here. I really doubt why some of the regulations of this bag of legislation were brought in. I understand, Mr. Secretary, that there are some judges and prosecutors in the criminal court in particular who feel close enough to call our prosecutors directly, but I don't think there's such a thing in the administrative court, Mr. Secretary, to call the judge you want and say, "Do this, do this." You're not at the point of saying, "Do this." So, this arrangement, I believe, is being brought to the Minister and his government to be authorized to establish a ruling on the administrative judiciary. In my opinion, the purpose of this arrangement is to reduce the functioning of the administrative judiciary. Yes, the workload of the investigation will be reduced. It's trying, but the main goal here is to reduce the State's workload, or bypass the State Department, I don't think it's been discussed enough. Is it to make the administrative judiciary work really fast here, or to make administrative justice dependent on the government? Is that the effort, that's the thought? We haven't been able to answer that question clearly. Dear lawmakers, with this arrangement, some procedures in the administrative judiciary are envisioned to speed up. But when you look at these cases, it's a question of whether or not you're looking at them, whether or not you're really trying to speed up some cases in the administrative court, or whether you're trying to protect some of the fellow businessmen and contractors. And the answer to that question is not clear. Of course, since the clause that I'm promised is particularly relevant to the administrative judiciary, I find it helpful to mention that you are not making a well-meaning arrangement for administrative justice today, but let's assume it's a well-intentioned arrangement, the problem is that now I'm talking about public employees -- especially staff -- has been made afraid to go to administrative justice, under great pressure. An executive officer, an officer who went to trial for the annulment of an administrative procedure or a general administrative procedure of his own, unfortunately, has become under a lot of public pressure. This is the case in AKP's municipalities; it is pressured if it goes to trial for the cancellation of an administrative procedure related to it. That's what happens in public about bureaucrats who work in ministries. Now people can't go to administrative court. In fact, what we need to guarantee today should be about people's right to go to administrative justice. It's really bad. And I'd like to say from here that after 2015, this administrative judgment will be needed by some bureaucrats who work as your servant today, perhaps you will need it. That's why we care so much about the independence of the administrative judiciary. I request the acceptance of our amendment motion.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0136par0082	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0137par0085	Mr. President, we have a request for a roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-06sit11spe0136par0086	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request. Mr. Altay, Mr. Diturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Seralioğlu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Danışoglu, Mr. Eksinci, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Öz, Mr. Batum, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Gök and Mr. Aygun. I'll give you four minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
