tbmm-2014-05-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are enough meetings, we'll start negotiations. Congressmans, it's really hard to express our pain in words. Yesterday's news from Soma dropped a great ember into our heart, leading our minds, our hearts, to our workers, and to their families. There is no doubt that we as a nation are deeply and inexplicably sad. Therefore, in accordance with the decision made by the Presidential Court, I would like to invite the General Assembly to a moment of silence in memory of our citizens who lost their lives in the incident in Soma district of Manisa Province. [[Respect has been held]] I wish God's mercy to our lost citizens, my condolences to their families, and an urgent cure to our wounded citizens. We look forward to the joyful news from our miners, who are waiting to be rescued under a cave-in that will give us a little bit of peace, and our prayers are with them. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Now, I'm reading a jointly signed motion given to our president in this regard, reflecting the common feeling of the Turkish Grand National Assembly: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On Tuesday (May 13, 2014), many of our citizens were killed by accident in a mine in Soma district of Manisa. As the TBM, we ask for God's mercy, condolences, and patience, and immediate healing for the wounded. We wish to see the success of efforts to rescue our still-unreached mining brothers. We have great pain as president of the TBMM, members of the Presidential Court, political party presidents and lawmakers, and political parties without a group, and independent lawmakers. It's our greatest wish that these pains never happen again, which have burned our hearts. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. 14/05/2014 Mahir Ünal Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi AK PARTY Deputy Group Chairman CHP Deputy Leader of Group Deputy Chairman of the MPHP Group HDP Group Deputy Director Congressmans, now, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have read and process and submit to your votes. The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at a meeting Wednesday (14/05/2014). Mahir Ünal Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The General Assembly's 14/05/2014 Joint Counsel Council proposal suggested that no other work be discussed and that the General Assembly not meet Thursday (15/05/2014) will be held on Wednesday (21/05/2014) for the five available membership in the court, which was agreed to be held Thursday (15/05/2014). All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (May 20th) to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with oral question motions and draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
