tbmm-2014-07-24sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to renew the roll call. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Ankara MP Aylin Nazlıaka, who wants to talk about the problems of young people who are studying in Turkey and abroad. Here you go, Mr. Nazliaka.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise to discuss the problems of students living abroad and in Turkey. I salute the High Council. In particular, I would like to address AKP MPs: Look, valued MPs, Turkey currently has no youth policy. Our young people have many problems, but almost unpoliticized is transformed into a youth policy. Here, in society, the mentality that sees young people as an object, not a subject of this society, is trying to shape them in terms of their own ideological perspective, trying to build their mind maps. Whereas we say that young people are the subject of this society, and they can only do so as long as they can find free spaces where they can express their own feelings and thoughts. Young people can only carry themselves out if they are not dragged from place to place. This is why we insist on not giving our young people these days when we should be providing them with both scientific and cultural and artistic equipment. Dear MPs, young people, are not the draft of tomorrow; they are today's individuals. But, of course, in a parliament where the average age is 54, we are dealing with the problems of young people with sincerity, how much we share by internalizing them, and that's something we all have to question. Look, right now there are over 5 million students in Turkey who are studying for pre-license, licensing, post-license and residency. We know that these students deal with a lot of different problems from housing to tuition problems, dorm problems, freedom issues. We know that during the most productive times of their lives, they experience future anxiety and struggle with the waiting unemployment issues. We want to question the power of what these young people have done so far to solve their problems. Of course, by the way, when I visit our organizations abroad, I sometimes get together with our young people who live there, and I listen to their problems. I was recently in Austria, and the young ones there told me about some of their problems. And I promised them that I would be their voice in the House and that I would bear these problems. Look, one of these problems is that we have about 3,800 students studying in Austria, and they are trying to deal with the visa problem. The visa problem. Of course, the movement of money is very free, the goods are free to travel from one country to another, but our people are unfortunately unable to go from one country to another. At the same time, our young people told me that we don't even have an education counselor at the consulate there. Can you imagine, in a country where 3,800 young people are studying, we don't have an education counselor, we have no authority to help them in any way? Another problem is the trouble with their tuition. Look, the Austrian government has divided the countries that are going to pay tuition to 3. The ones in the 1st category don't give any tuition. In the 2nd category, there are countries such as Kosovo, China -- they pay 363 euros in tuition. There are also countries in the third category -- 39 countries -- that have no students, so we're talking only about 13 and only 13 countries. There's Panama, Grenada, Botswana, Malaysia. These countries pay about 1,500 euros a year. What do you think Turkey is between these three categories? We are the world's 17th largest economy. Here, you have to go back and question this. However, according to a contract between the two countries in 2004, such an application of tuition was lifted. Our young people want this practice to be repeated, this contract, this agreement to be renewed. Let me give this to you from here. Dear lawmakers, of course, I have a lot to say about young people, but in such a short period of time, it is impossible to give full space to the problems of youth. So I'm just saying that we, the people who draw the short stick, will continue to fight until we're even with those who draw the long stick, so you know that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Mustafa Şinahal, who asked for a comment on Malatya's water problems. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0004par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. In particular, we often face watering problems with the fact that we have a drought, plus a province that suffers from the disaster of frosts. In particular, because of the drought and also because of the frost disaster in the apricot, we see that our farmers, especially because of the drying of our farmer's source of income, are faced with watering problems in our Malatya, which are particularly driven by plant food plants and other vegetables. We, especially our Minister, and all of our relevant headquarters, have tried to move serious distances from that day to today, as we have discussed this with our district managers in the framework of a broad co-ordination meeting. But, unfortunately, we're looking at it, and we're witnessing in the field that we're trying to provoke our people in the field to deal with this problem that we're trying to solve, especially at the point where these problems are going on. In our Malatya, we strive to water most of our currently watered 173,000 hectares with our current resources. However, we have seen that a localally small part of us has been overcome by the work of our governorship and district managership, which has been watered by sewage because of a variety of problems. But, again, really, it's as if the understanding that you're trying to get a political runt from here still hasn't left the field. Especially in Malatya, we have received serious support to be watered with closed systems. We project 14 ponds under the Thousand Pond Project in a Thousand Days, and some of them are in the tender, and I'm sure we'll increase the amount of waterable land available in Malatya, and our people will get what they really expect from the state. Now, especially about the recent Gaza massacre, the Gaza disaster... I don't really enjoy talking about it. In the month of Ramadan, especially the month of mercy and forgiveness, we are unfortunately in Syria, in East Turkistan, Iraq, especially in Gaza, in the massacres that we have seen in all our people, the United Nations, the United Nations, the United States, and the civilized nations that we have seen there -- despite the fact that there was self-defense -- beyond a legitimate self-defense of this resistance so far, we are also in the midst of watching the entire world of Europe as if the innocent Palestinian people or the Hamasian there had been an illegitimate struggle against Israel. Especially during that time, our innocent children, our young ones, our mothers there, are being slaughtered in the hands of the world's humanity. Gaza, which has been blockaded from air, land and sea, is now, as it is known, truly turning into an open-air prison. With these things, Israel burns and destroys this place at will, and unfortunately, it enters any territory he wants. We are also very well monitoring the testimony of a member of parliament, who was dehumanized, thirsting for blood, feeding on blood and tears, who did not receive the human rights of Zionist Israel. In particular, we look at this as a women's MP and the death of all mankind, unfortunately with a pharaohic understanding, and the answer is clearly and clearly needed in the 18th verse of the Qur'an of Ali Imran. In this spirit, we are with our brothers. Gaza will surely resist, win, and together with Gaza we will bear witness that innocent Jerusalem, the community and mankind will surely win in the ultimate conscience. Palestine is important to us, the first qiblah of Palestinian Muslims, so we have to own this place. Intifada on land, sea, everywhere, resist Gaza, resistance the mighty resistance and freedom fighters of Hamas, the glory and glory of Palestine, victory is yours and is near. Damn Israel for doing things he should have done! Long live hell for the oppressors! I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP İlhan Demiröz. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0006par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book agreement regarding the problems of the scholarship olives and olive producers. I salute you all with love and respect. In this speech, I would like to say that I will share the texts that our presidents have sent to you and the public information of Orhangazi, Mudanya, Iznik and Gemlik Agriculture Room. Dear friends, the President of the Orhangazi Agriculture Room calls to Mr. Hasan Cevizlidere: In the year 2013-2014 production season, both the weather and the winter months should not be harsh, but the summer's early rains caused the olive gardens to lose crops. Olive farming in Orhangazi district is leading, and this year the olive gardens have suffered significant loss of efficiency. An average production of 32,000 tonnes of olives is expected in the table olives, while the figure is expected to drop to 7,000 tonnes. In our region, in 2010, the flower burns, the loss of quality in 2011, the low recollet in 2012, the lack of olives that we expected this year, the increase in prices in our farmers' use in diesel, fertilizer and pesticides has left our farmers unable to pay their debts. Therefore, we ask that our farmers be given the necessary assistance by the state. With our regards. Dear friends, our President of the Mudanya Agriculture Room, Mr. Raif Döner, says: 90 per cent of the town of Mudanya is involved in olivery. The olive field is 95,000 per year, while the olive tree is 3 million 675 thousand. Efficiency per tree is between 10 kilograms and 15 kilograms. Our annual production is between 26,000 tons and 35,000 tons. Between May 28, 2014 and June 10, 2014, there are 30 per cent to 70 per cent loss of products due to heavy rains. That's why our government is postponing debt, but it's not satisfactory. Our demand is that the loans -- not delay -- should be structured and the manufacturer be supported enough to look at their olives. Yours truly. Dear friends, Mr. Vahit Happy, the head of the Iznik Agriculture Room, also says that there was a 60-80 per cent loss of efficiency due to prolonged rain during the flower season. Since the rain damage was not covered by TARSIM insurance, the Iznik farmer, who provided the most important part of his income with olives, was unable to pay off his debts. We ask that our farmer's debts be postponed for three years without interest and paid for cash. Yours truly. Finally, dear friends, Mr. Ali Çelik, our President of the Gemlik Agriculture Room, says: "From November 2013 until April 2014, it did not rain on our territory, but it did not stay on the olive trees in which every tree needed rest. As agricultural chambers, we expected this drought to reduce efficiency; while we were wondering if the producer could cover the maintenance costs, the rains that rained during the olive flowering prevented the fertilization of flowers caused about 75 to 85% of the crop loss in our 4 counties. Financially speaking, we've lost about $225 million. A year's delay in debt means nothing but a pile of debt... and we don't know how these debts will be paid next year. The solution is that these debts are instalable in less than five years. We expect unrequited assistance from the state to continue production -- for the world's most precious olive -- for the maintenance costs of the manufacturer in 2014 and for the maintenance costs of 2015. With all due respect. The farm says our room heads, and I'll pass it on to you. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0007par0059	Thank you, Mr. Irony. I'll give the MPs a minute of my word that he's in the system. Mr. Group Vice President entered the system first, I promise. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0008par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. It's July 24th. July 24, 1923 is the date of the historic Lausanne Agreement, and today we celebrate the 91st anniversary. Lausanne is the name of the document that crowns our national Liberation War. Lausanne is the registration of the Republic of Turkey before it is established. Lozan is the deed of our full independence that tore Sevr. We give thanks and thanks to the mighty martyrs who have made this land our home, the victorious commanders of our Liberation War, the dust of the front, the smell of gunpowder, to the imperialists and to the imperialists who show the world that our nation knows diplomacy and politics as well as war, and to the Ismet Innu, the leader of our salvation, our organization's enlightenment revolution, to the Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0007par0067	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0009par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm calling from here to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's pressure on the staff working on subcontractors inside the parliament, and because of this pressure, I filmed them working in bad jobs, bad places, and they asked those subcontractors to get fired because I made it a written question motion to the Speaker of Parliament. Please, I demand that the Speaker of Parliament seize this situation. Secondly, the members of parliament have become unionists, union dues don't stop. Why don't these union dues stop? And they didn't decide whether they were unionists or not in their written document. I expect them to make a positive or negative decision on this matter, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0010par0073	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0011par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is July 24th, Journalists and Press Day. In exchange for all the pressures, censorship and intimidation, I salute all the press workers who are trying to maintain their journalistic honor. At no time in our history have Turkish media and journalists been under as much pressure and censorship as during the AKP administration, newspapers have not been pressured, journalists have not been fired, they have not been unemployed. Once again, I salute and cherish all the press workers, whose mind, whose hope, heart, who have taken over their profession. Also, I wish you the best of luck today in the UEFA European League's 2nd Prejudice Tour in Georgia. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0012par0082	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0013par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 20th mile of Balıkesir-Bandırma-Kanakkale road, a truck collided with a truck at the intersection of Goönen, and 31 of our citizens were injured. Is there no Balıkesir Province in the field of the Ministry of Transport, which boasts of its double ways? The province of Balıkesir is investing only 1/5 of its contribution to Turkey's general budget. Look, the intersection of the heart has been going on for three years, and unfortunately, the deaths there have become ordinary. Again, the Road to Manyas-Mount, again, the Road to the Land of the Heart-Bandirt is now a road that is a village. The people of Balıkesir ask if Balıkesir is in the ministry of transport? If he continues to neglect this way, if those productions and resources are not separated, our people will continue to meet with the deaths on Balıkesir land. I'd like to ask the Ministry of Transport to put some money into Balıkesir's path and serve our people.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0014par0091	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0015par0094	Mr. President, tomorrow, the head of the administration that runs the propaganda work using all the resources of the state will open the Ankara-Istanbul speed train line before it is completed by performing one man show again. Alifuatpaşa-Sapanca will use 33km old road, 15km old road between Bozüyük-Karaköy, the construction of the Gar is not completed, the Köseköy-Gebze signalification is still under construction, the Gebze-City construction is under way, the International Certification between Eskişehir-Gebze will open by showing off a line that has not been received yet, using the resources of the state. On July 22, 2004, we lost 41 of our citizens in Pamukova, again because of their ambitions. In the 10th year, I hope, for the sake of one man's future, I say that our people will not be sacrificed, and I call upon them to return from this wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0014par0096	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0016par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. The Women's Assembly of the Silverhouse City Council, the women's Assembly, the Israeli women's MP Ayelet Shaked, must die. All Palestinian mothers must die. In his sentence, all Palestinian mothers must believe that they are calling for genocide, and they have decided to collectively condemn it. In Turkey, perhaps -- as far as I can tell -- it was the first women's assembly to condemn, and they described these words that smelled of genocide for Muslim women as a crime of humanity. From here, I congratulate the women's council of the Silver House, and all the women's houses of the Silver House, for sending their henna lambs to the front with prayer, and for condemning these genocide efforts and efforts of Israel, such as these silver - mothers, women, and the rulers of the City Council. I pay my respects to you, too.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0017par0102	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0018par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Over 1,000 Muslims die and die every day in the world. The Muslim Brotherhood, which claims to be Muslims, kills 90 per cent of 1,000 Muslims. Among them are Turks and Turkmen, mostly. Isn't the Muslim Brotherhood massacre a Muslim massacre? Why doesn't the AKP government declare mourning in these massacres? Do you still intend to assist the terrorist organization called the Muslim Brothers (Muslims)? Why do you call the Muslim Brotherhood "unsur" and when are you going to declare a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0017par0107	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0019par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament, today is July 24th, the 19th anniversary of the death of Dr. Sadik Ahmad, the unforgettable leader of the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish minority, as a result of a suspicious car accident. On this occasion, I humbly and gratefully remember the late Sadiq Ahmad. Once again, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The late Dr. Sadik Ahmet has taken his place in history, with the determination and the awareness of the fight he has given to the Western Thracian Muslim minority, and has become the unforgettable leader of the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish community. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0020par0113	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0021par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the CSI went to a change in September 2014, without informing anyone on the TUS manual he was implementing for his doctors. In this new method, only graduate physicians are required to enter the Tus. But so far, all the intern doctors who had graduated before the exam date had been able to take the exam. Hundreds of candidates or doctors who have graduated between the application date and the exam date will be victims. I want this corrected by the authorities. My second suggestion is that 800 people in Gebze Kent Foods are currently on strike who have failed to agree to a collective agreement. I expect the government's officials to help mediate and negotiate a settlement. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0022par0120	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0023par0123	Mr. President, the peasants who produce in our country are trying to produce in their fields and gardens in the heat of 40 degrees today. Because of climate change, many of them have reached a point where natural disasters can't buy their products. For example, Izmir Kemalpaşa, the cherry maker, the olive maker, the grape maker, as our friends have just said, the olive maker in the Marmara region, the apricot in Malatya, and the fruit producer in the Army face serious problems. TARSIM doesn't solve this peasant's problem, and there's no cure for any trouble. And at this point, the promises of power don't come true. It is imperative for our peasants, who deal with these production problems, who deal with sales marketing problems, to support and extend their hand to them in order to address the problems they're dealing with under this sun. Therefore, I ask you today to take care of the problems of our farming peasants in this one minute.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0022par0124	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Mr. Sener...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0024par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is July 24th, journalism and press day. I'm celebrating this day for all my fellow journalists, press workers. In these blessed days, I also wish patience and victory to all my brothers under the tyranny of Israel, the state of terror in Gaza. May the curse of God be upon those who do this cruelty, I thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0025par0130	Thank you, Mr. Sener. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0026par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology: the non-interested loan support programme, envisioned in the Manisa counties under COSGEB, has made my fellow citizens happy and hopeful, but has raised many questions. In recent years, TARSIM has now had similar concerns about KOSGEB loans, which have been blocked into their accounts by different debts as an excuse for their repayment and product support. Has your ministry developed a solution model to prevent the loan from being allowed by our owner, who has earned the support of KOSGEB, due to different debts such as the SGK, electricity, and water? How long will the KOSGEB loan be distributed in Manisa districts to how many rights holders? What is the stage of the application? And while our Minister of Forestry and Waterworks is here, I'd like to ask him if he's going to be on the show.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0027par0136	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0028par0139	Mr. President, thank you. Today is July 24, 2014, the anniversary of Lausanne. I want to thank the people who signed Lausanne, and those who made an effort at the time, that's one. Secondly, today is July 24, 2014, and it's also an important day for the press, but unfortunately, I'd like to point out that we're not aware that the press has survived censorship, but that we're aware of a period in which they live in more severe censorship. Three, Mr. President, I have several questions for the Home Office. He's either not responding to this or he's responding in condescending, even rude terms. I'm not going to read those questions because there's no time, but I'm protesting the Minister in your presence. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0029par0144	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0030par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's July 24th. I wish our entire nation the 91st anniversary of the Lausanne Agreement, where our organization and our salvation are declared to the world. Ataturk, Ismet Inönu, the architects of this organization and our salvation, and I salute all the republic's revolutionaries from here. However, I would like to declare here that those who try to destroy our territorial integrity and independence and those who sit at the table with the PKK today will not be able to achieve their goals. We also have Ramadan Day ahead of us. On June 11th... our people, our consulate officials, and their families are still in the hands of the ISIS terrorist organization. Will they be able to return home for the holidays? We want to know what kind of initiatives the government makes. Again, at the same time...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0031par0152	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0032par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Our fruit and olive producers have been damaged recently because of the hail and heavy rain that occurred in our Bursa. We, the EC PARTY, as lawmakers, have delivered the files we've prepared as a result of our talks with the parties to both our ministry and our government. We're following the subject. Just as we supported our olive producers before 2011, we will continue to support them as lawmakers. Besides, it's Press Day. I celebrate the Press Day of our press in terms of objective, honest, impartial and accurate reporting. And I wish our Bursaspor well in his match today. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0033par0160	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk... Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0034par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. We celebrate the 91st anniversary of the Lausanne Treaty. On this anniversary, we honor Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and Ismet Inönu, our martyrs and veterans, who provided our national independence. We give thanks and thanks to all these people who provide the national integrity of the Republic of Turkey from here, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey is big and strong with its national integrity. With the disintegration of the nation's state, the states can never be the same. Therefore, I would like to announce from here that any attempt to divide our country, towards our national integrity, will be destroyed by the Turkish people. I'm also celebrating Press Day, celebrating the holiday of all the press workers, and I'm condemning the revisiting of censorship in the press. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0035par0168	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0036par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. On April 27th, the disabled KPSS exam was conducted. About 120,000 disabled people were tested. Of these, there are 25,000 deficits in the public, but Labour and Social Security Minister says he will receive 3.168 disabled. Thus, today, in front of the State Staff's presidency on İzmir Street, our disabled brothers and sisters are holding an action on increasing this quota. We give them our support here, and we ask the Ministry of Labor and Social Security to increase the quota on this issue. Second, today is July 24th - July 24, 1963 - a day in which our legendary President, Blunt Ecevit, was recognized by the collective contract and union rights, and that was the day that the law was passed. Once again, I ask God's mercy, love and respect for our former president and prime minister, the late Bulent Ecevit. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0037par0175	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0038par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as you know, the presidential campaign continues with the participation of three candidates. The Prime Minister's style does not suit a presidential candidate or a Prime Minister. The roof is sometimes referred to as Mr Ekmeleddin İhsanoglu, sometimes as Ekmel Efendi, sometimes as Ekmel. He even says: "Ekmel, we know very well what you are. " Somewhere along the line, he says: "We brought you there, you're ungrateful, you're out there, you're ungrateful, let it be in your eye. I'm saying it's not appropriate for a prime minister and a presidential candidate. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0039par0181	It's not human.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0040par0182	I think she'd look good in it!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0041par0183	Why don't you say something to Kamer?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0042par0184	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0043par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 91st anniversary of the 24th July Lausanne Peace Accord. By crowning the military victory we won in the fight against the invasion and against the firms of Sevr, the Republic of Turkey has adopted the Republic of Turkey as a national state in the entire international community. On this occasion, we bless our national struggle heroes and those who crown this struggle. But unfortunately, today we have to rewrite the so-called solution process. When we consider a process in which the solutions of those who say "Lozan" are imposed, the national state, the unitary state structure is intended to be corrupted, unfortunately, those who want to betray Sevr are being re-sounded as a peacemaker, I'm afraid with regret. Everyone needs to learn from this process. On the other hand, today is the 19th anniversary of the loss of Dr. Sadik Ahmad, the fighting man of the Western Thracian Turks. We remember him with mercy and gratitude, but today, unfortunately, Greece's unjust practices continue in Western Thrace. So I really think it's necessary to learn from history by considering our day. I think that the anniversary of both Lauzan and Dr. Sadiq Ahmad will be an example and an example for everyone in terms of the practices that are being carried out today. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0044par0191	Thank you, Mr. Vural. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. In the 2nd place, the parliamentary research motion that I'm going to read will be read over 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Tutorak Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On July 20, 2012, at the License Placement Exam (LYS), 1 million 938,000 candidates, 189,380 candidates, combined with language tests, scored zero and below, drawing "zero" points, leading to their families and educational institutions and institutions and organisations to anxiety and sadness. In 2011, the LYS test, where 112,18 students failed, raised by 69 per cent this year, raising concerns that 189,380 students would withdraw zero. In particular, mathematics, geometry, and chemistry have seen at least twice the increase in the number of people who have zeroed out over the years. In 2012, the number was 42,221, when 31,51 candidates in the 2011 LYS math test failed to make it clear. The number of zeroers in geometry rose from 37,867 last year to 64,651 this year, while in chemistry 3,764 last year to 21,800 this year. Other tests show a significant decline in 2011. Following the fall of this year's success rates to the back of 2011, the quality of education has been significantly reduced, as well as the transformation of education into the instrument of political policies; the code is said to have been changed in the way the OSTYM, which has already lost its credibility with miscalculation scandals, has changed in the way it calculates points just a little bit before the test. In addition to the impact of two basic institutions such as the success average at LYS, family and school, students are considered closely related to socio-economic differences in regional terms. For example, as we go to rural areas of the country or as we go down from the higher income level of society, the failures that we face in our country indicate that there is still no equal opportunity in our country, and that there is no effort to take any precautions. The province of Zonguldak, which we have been chosen, has not been ranked in the successful provinces. As a result, the success and failure of 189,380 candidates at LYS, taking zero and below in some field types, including language tests, and drawing "zero" points, again across provinces and schools, reveals the question of this test system and the education system. We propose and to investigate and propose that the Council of the Constitution, the 98th Article of the Constitution, the Constitution, and the Article of TBM Administration, should be investigated according to Article 104, and 105, in order for our children's lives to be investigated, so that millions of people will be concerned about this testing system and the negativity in the educational system, the reasons for failures, and that the educational system of our children can be removed from their lives, that new roads, systems can be investigated. 1) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 5) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 9) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the echoes of the disaster at Chernobyl and Fukushima nuclear plants still going around the world, Prime Minister Erdogan has been instructed to step up work for the nuclear plant through a generalized sector signed by Prime Minister Erdogan about the Mersin-Akkuyu nuclear plant, which is expressed by scientists of all kinds of illegality, violations and environmental risks are very serious. An agreement with the Russian company for the planned nuclear plant in Akkuyu was cancelled due to irregularity in 2008. However, AKP power signed an agreement with the Russian state in 2010 on Akkuyu and closed legal roads related to the agreement, as well as the project was exempted from the CED report. The court has revoked the decision on the CED exemption, but the government has issued a regulation that ignores the State's decision. Serious technical flaws have also been reported in the plants established in Bulgaria and Iran by the company that will build a nuclear plant in Akkuyu. Since legal processes related to the project have been blocked, there is no attempt at all these dangers. Current regulations also allow companies to receive CED reports from private companies in exchange for money, and Akkuyu received a CED report for money from a private company. According to the Constitution, the authority to ratify international agreements belongs to the President, not to the Council of Ministers (m. I04/b-6). The President has been legally approved by parliament, and the Council of Ministers approves the international agreement, which has been agreed on, and publishes it in the Official Gazette. That's how the interstate deal goes into effect. "In compliance, international agreements are not approved by a procedure issued by the President, but by a Council of Ministers decision." According to the Constitution (m. 104/b-6) is the President's authority to ratify international agreements, not the Council of Ministers. The confirmation must be carried out by the President's decision, not by a Council of Ministers. This is a clear decree in the Constitution. The project area for Akkuyu, which is shown as a project site under the Building Law, must be determined in the upper-scale plan. The construction of the nuclear power plant project for Mersin Karaman's 100,000-scale Environment Plan is also a requirement of zoning legislation. The plan for the project field is a legal document that shows the nuclear plant's choice of location. The CED process will not be launched until the plant's location is marked and the strategy for this location is determined by the Environmental Law on this plant. Because first, a legal document that shows the location of the plant, the area of influence, the harmony of plan decisions, the plan in this sense; then a CED report should be produced to show the potential risks and prevention of these risks. A project's allocation should not be run without being shown in the upper-scale plan, but the ministry said it would not be affected by the process of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. As a result, the project company has failed to apply for permission, registration, approvals in Article 6 of the agreement within a year. In this context, Turkey's energy problem will only be resolved by accurate detection and planning under the reasons listed above. As stated above, the terms of the agreement were not met, the CED process was discovered not to be run, and there were various violations. For all these reasons, we respect the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Articles 104, 105, of the Constitutional Charter 98, and 105. [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Malatya]] 6) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our Ardahan province takes part in university exams every year at the end of the year. Each year, these failed results have been a work of years of poor education. On July 20, 2012, the LYS test results were announced, and 189,380 candidates from 1,98,000 candidates who took the exam received zero points. The decline in success rate in this year's LYS is a clear indication that the quality of our national education has fallen. There are some of the biggest problems in education that the government has not been able to allocate enough from the budget for education, the education system, the education system, the education system, the education system, the education system, the education system, the education system, the education system, the education system, and the ability to study in the second place, the lack of money, the lack of the education system, the lack of the education system, the lack of the education system. Since 1992, nearly 30 National Education Directors have changed in Ardahan. It is not possible to succeed in such an environment. That's the case in the east and southeast. There are nearly 30,000 experts and major teachers in Turkey. These are not appointed by the Ministry of National Education. Because education and education are so low, our citizens in the east and southeast are migrating to get their children to study with better opportunities. The children of our citizens, who remain in their territories without migrating, remain ignorant and fall into bad ways because of lack of education. To achieve success in education, the government must allocate a larger share from the budget to the Ministry of National Education. A master plan needs to be prepared so that east and southeast can succeed in education and that intergalactic imbalance can be resolved. It's the most urgent need for every school to have a heating room. Teachers who will serve in the east and southeast must be paid differently. Teachers who go east and southeast must be experienced and must be assigned at least three years of mandatory service. In the east and southeast, every town and district must be provided with a science and anadolu high school and equipped with experienced teachers. In eastern and southeast provinces, 50 per cent of the student's tuition must be paid by the state. In schools, equipment, laboratory, and adequate equipment should be weighted, not based on memorisation and testing, but on research training. With respect to the need for the opening of Parliamental research under the 98th Article of our Constitution and Article 104 and 105 of TBM Institution, in order to determine and implement a system that will be a success and identify the defects in the LYS that concern our young people and millions of their families that we're going to entrust our future to. 25/07/2012 [[Ardahan]] [[Gaziantep]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 8) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 12) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 20) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 21) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 22) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 24/07/2014 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Following healthy, stable and long-term policies in livestock, the resolution of the problems of living animal breeders has been proposed in the General Assembly Thursday (June 24/07/2014) as our parliamentary research proposal is being read in our country due to the increasing problems of the animal industry, which is the main number of İzmir MP Oktay Vural and his friends (10/262) in the section of the National Assembly's agenda for General Assembly for General Discussions, which should be addressed by investigating the problems. Iconian MP Mustafa Kalaycı on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0045par0377	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our country's motion to investigate the problems of the animal industry and to investigate the measures necessary to be taken as the National Movement Party. On this occasion, I salute you all. Animalism is a very hard work, knowledge, skill, patience, and an area of activity that requires fighting three hundred and sixty-five days a year. For such an activity, you must make a great sacrifice. That's why not everyone can be an animal. Those who work in livestock haven't been rewarded for many years of hard work. Although there have been some improvements from time to time, they have not been permanent and sustainable. Hence, there has always been an ups and downs in livestock. In order to achieve results in animal production, stable and national policies are needed. In recent years, Turkey, which exports live animals and meat for its own use, has become an importer of livestock because of the wrong policies. The AKP government is history as a government that imports animals to sacrifice, imports straw. Today, these policies are being continued. The import of beef, originally 110,731 tonnes in 2011, dropped to 25,436 tonnes in 2012, to 6,140 tonnes in 2013, as a result of increasing customs taxes. In 2011, the import of live animals, which were 110 million, 731 thousand heads, was regressed to 213,000 head in 2012 and 2,000 head in 2013. However, a number of non-profits who did not want to give up their profits during the import period have been disturbed by the development and have been working to reduce customs duties that prevent meat and animal imports, claiming that meat production is insufficient. Until this month, we've had enough animals for imports. We don't need imports. "We will import if necessary," the Minister of Agriculture said earlier this month. He gave a green light to imports with his word. In order to provide economic support for the country, which was remembered for the flood in Bosnia and Herzegovina due to yesterday's Official Gazette, customs duties for importing fresh or frozen cattle have been reduced to zero. Thus, rumors of long-standing imports proved true. As of today, Turkey does not need to import animals. This way meat imports must not be reopened. Our friend and sister country can also be given economic support to Bosnia and Herzegovina in other ways. It's not moral to seek such an excuse. In terms of the price of meat, consumer sensitivity is abused, and black propaganda is made. In fact, in red meat, both producers and consumers are victims, while the middleman and sellers profit from their profits. Although there are no wholesalers and distributors in between, meat is sold at least 27-28 lira, beef is sold at $38 or even $60. Import lobbyists use the market price to call it "priced" and apply pressure to prepare the basis for meat imports. The ministry does not control any price. The milk has the same picture. While the manufacturer is selling milk cheaply, consumers are getting expensive drinks, high-profit means. Therefore, in order to address the victimization of both producers and consumers, the government must first act as a price controller, and go on to the high-profit brokers. The decision to import meat won't cause a drop in meat prices. We experienced this example in 2010. As a matter of fact, not even large amounts of imports have been of any use. The winner of the government's import decision alone will receive a runt, and the producers will be severely damaged. Our manufacturers of imports in 2010 were also severely damaged. With this dignity, let the government come to its senses, give up the love of imports, and not bow down to the lobby of imports. And let there be no more imports in the days of the feast of sacrifice. Meat imports are the end of livestock, end of animalism in our country. The import of live animals and meat is nothing more than to develop the breeder of the country you import, to import it, to fill the safe, to fill the pockets of those who seek easy gain. We also continue to eat expensive meat and drink expensive milk. The resources collected by tax from the citizen must be evaluated best, spent on our producers, farmers, who are struggling with life and production in the countryside. Today's input prices and 1 kilo of carkas cost the manufacturer about $18 to $19. It can also be sold to the market at about these prices. The manufacturer must earn at least 10 percent so he can maintain animalism. Today, the price of barley, the price of dandruff, the price of bait, the price of hay, the price of fertilizer, the price of diesel, and the price of veterinary services. Manufacturers can't keep up with ups and downs. This year, of course, hay production has decreased due to the decline of grain production due to disasters, and there is an abnormal strain on the hay. At this rate, the price of hay will exceed the price of wheat. The Ministry of Agriculture must now take necessary measures to prevent the hay crisis and the victims of the manufacturers. Manufacturers should be provided cheaply for inputs such as bait, dandruff, barley, hay, fertilizer, diesel, electricity. For this, the exorbitant taxes in these entries must first be removed. Feeding plants should be boosted, and effective use of mera must be encouraged. However, the AKP government does not take issue with producers' problems. As discussed here today in the bag bill, the AKP government is seeking to remove the taxes of precious minerals such as gold and diamonds, opening the fields to build, seeking to harvest the rants. Dear lawmakers, the problems of our country's animalism must be overcome, the potential we have is well assessed, and animal support must be given fair and balanced by consideration of the potentials of the provinces. However, there are serious difficulties in supporting practices. Current animal support is provided through zero interest loans and grant programmes imposed by the Agriculture Bank. However, our producers are unable to make sufficient use of these supports due to the difficulties of legislation in support practices. The main problem with loan support given by the Agriculture Bank is the mortgage issue, which is 100 per cent of the loan amount. Moreover, the land, which manufacturers have only the means to mortgage, is considered far below the value of actual mortgages, since it is not seen as a real mortgage tool. Therefore, other assets are required for mortgages from the manufacturer, if the city has a home, a land, or a car, they are requested, or they are sought as guarantors with credit, usually the officer has to find a guarantor. In credit applications, however, a facility to be built with 25 per cent of the manufacturer's equity can be mortgaged and mortgaged. Just as buying a car is shown as collateral for a house or a car that is used to buy a house, the problem can be solved by putting a mortgage on the facility, as long as the manufacturer puts a certain amount of equity in it. In this way, manufacturers do not have to search the city for homes, land, and civil servants to use loans. It's called zero interest loans, but you know that 60 percent of the loans the Agriculture Bank gives to manufacturers are covered by the Ministry of Agriculture, 40% by the Treasury. Thus, the bank receives interest on its loan but receives a world of file costs from the manufacturer. This expense exceeds 10% in a $50,000 loan. The manufacturer costs $78,000 for the feasibility report requested by the bank and the avant-garde project. Thus, the loan, which is supposedly called zero interest, is very expensive to the manufacturer. In addition, because the government did not take the necessary measures, manufacturers who have claimed 67,000 lira in interest loans in recent years have not been able to sell these animals with their calf for $3,4,000, they have done great damage. The government has only seen this sacrifice. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0046par0397	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Kars MP Yunus Kılıç. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0047par0401	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, first and foremost, I offer all of these workers, who are working as hard as Press Day, agriculture and animalism, who are doing a far more dangerous job, to continue their duties in a healthier, war-free, non-murdering environment in their next lives. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the motion for research has mentioned a lot of difficult processes related to livestock. Now, I'd like to address these, in turn, with your permission. I want to be a little bit more concerned about meat imports, red meat imports, especially, because these days, both in Parliament and in our producers and in our press, we're seeing a lot of them. Almost, it's a process we're used to. More or less than a few months before the victims' festivals, there are usually processes in the country that cause such distress, stress, and distress to the manufacturer, with the intention of putting the government in a difficult position. The government got used to it, and the AK PARTY got used to it. We've been through this all the time before in political times. Guys, first you have to look at imports as a word. What's imports? It means taking something from the outside. If you have it, you'll never need it. So, first of all, can you produce what you need? Are you available to produce this, your land, your country, your production industry, your industry? Do you have the power to do that? Yes, Turkey has the potential to produce enough meat, to produce agricultural, animal products, to produce enough meat for friends, country people. The important thing is to find out why this potential has never been revealed. Yeah, that's the point. Mr. oratorics have stated that there are going back in livestock, especially in our animal beings and at the point of meeting our human animal needs. Yeah, guys, that's right. This, however, is something that dates back to the years before the AK PARTY. As you look at it from the 1980s, the data is more or less consistent. But when you come back in 2002, when the EC PARTI began to govern, we see that in some areas, the data in this country is being taken from a place where it's gotten pretty bad, and then the improvements are slowly starting, but at some points, with the growth of our people's well-being still increasing, with the number of tourists coming into the country increasing, we can see that, of course, there are still problems happening in some areas, and that at some times, it's increasing, and that balances are building up.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0048par0407	Teacher, it's been 12 years, 12 years.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0047par0408	Now, friends, you're right, agriculture, livestock, manufacturing is the most troubling, challenging area. People here don't have capital savings. From the smallest fluctuations, both in the world and in the country, this is the most affected area. He has no savings, no money, he can't support it, he has trouble getting credit; of course, all of this is okay, but dear friends, we also have to accept that our country's national income has increased, as well as our village's income has increased. There's more or less a tractor in every house, and our people are slowly starting to do more modern animalism, and they're expanding their operating scale, and they're increasing their production. Look, our milk production is over eight and a half million tons, 17 to 18 million tons. Our production of meat, my friends, is over a million tons over 425 thousand tons. In addition, our other productions have increased on this scale. Of course, the government, which is also an executive body, will have to meet the needs of the country's people. If you need a space somewhere, you need to find it wherever it is and get it to your people. That's what you call a government, that's what you call a government. If he doesn't get it, the government and the government won't do it. No, friends, if you need imports, can you export? Can you make a profit by converting this to added value? Can you produce in one field and take your lack of another from the outside and balance it mutually? Can you finally make a profit here, so do you have more exports than your imports? Yes, thank God, with the AK PARTY, we now have an increase in animal and agricultural production, friends, in the interest of about $5 billion in exports. So we have about 13 to 14 billion imports, we have about 18 to 19 billion exports. So, cumulatively, when you look at it in total, it's an agricultural and livestock industry that contributes to the closure of Turkey's current balance, not in this area. You have to look at it that way. Our meat production: Friends, about ten years ago in Turkey, the amount of red meat consumed per capita was 6.5 kilograms, and when you looked at the amount of beef with wings, it weighed about 10 or 11 or 12 kilos per person. This has increased rapidly. Look, right now, we're up to about 30 kilos per person on winged meat, guys, 12 or 13 kilos to 30 kilos. Look, it's a tremendous increase. In red meat, six pounds per person is now up to 13 kilos, so it's doubled, it's been out in ten years. Our animal presence: Friends, we've never had 16 million animals in Turkey. We have 12,400,000 animals in 1984, 10 million when you arrive in 2002, now 14.5 million animals. My main concern is that I'm a Kars MP, a member of a country based entirely on agriculture and animalism. These talks lead to a process that puts our citizen, our farmer, even the suppliers, the people who supply the country into a variety of expectations. What is this? Import pressure. Guys, we're not supposed to talk about this as much as possible. It's a good thing for certain sectors. We have to prevent it, we have to stay back, we don't have to encourage it. The manufacturer has continued to support the AK PARTY, and will continue to support it. Then why is he importing? Why did he do the imports? Guys, we had a meat consumption that weighed down to six pounds. In civilized countries, people manage to produce technology with their animal consumption. Our people need to eat at least 20 kilos of red meat.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0049par0415	How will he consume with this minimum wage, Mr. Professor? Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0047par0416	This was arranged for a period of time by the arrangement of taxes. Then when it got to the point where it started to hurt consumers, tax rates were slowly set up so that consumers and producers would not be inconvenienced, and imports were blocked. Turkey has never imported after 2002, friends. In 2003, it was a partial import, but all of it was a math for permits taken in 2002, and after 2003, Turkey had never imported an import, and with supports, the import permit was removed from the country from then on, so that animal production would not bring trouble to the manufacturer, so that those who work in the most difficult area in our country and try to produce people would not be in trouble. Mr. Kalayci said: "I'll do it if it's necessary." Can there be a better word for it? I'll do it if I have to. It's a reflex to protect the consumer completely. No, I never do. Is that a better expression? Well, then, you open the way for the men who are waiting to be robbed of this industry, not to protect the consumer. I'll do it if I have to. Friends, this is a stick, a government, a regulation organ you call government, it uses its power, it protects its strength, it protects its underdogs, and it says: "If I have to, I'll do it better." I won't if I don't have to. I don't crush my manufacturer, I support my manufacturer. Friends, there was $83 million in total support for the livestock industry in 2002, $83 million. Right now, three billion dollars, friends, 40 stories, 4,000 percent increase in agriculture and livestock. A total of $7 billion to the agricultural sector... $1.8 billion total, $7 billion, 4 times higher, that's what we need to talk about. Let Turkey not worry, let the Turkish manufacturer not be alarmed. The Minister of Agriculture and I were in Kars for two days on the weekend, animals everywhere. We have enough animals to satisfy the needs of the entire country, there's no need for imports now, but if necessary, if our consumer, 70 million people, has to do it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0050par0420	Tell me if you'll allow live animal imports.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0047par0421	But he says there's nothing to worry about right now, so I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0051par0423	Thank you, Mr. Sword. In the end, Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0052par0427	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's proposal for animalism. I salute all of you and all of our fellow citizens who follow us. Dear friends, before I begin my words, today is Press Day, the festival of all press members, press workers. Dear friends, the speakers here talked about imported meat. I'll show you a document, this document is published in the Official Gazette, signed by the President and Prime Minister. As of July 23, 2014, 15,000 tonnes of meat will be imported from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Yes, 15,000 tons of meat will be imported. We are not against imports from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, Bosnia is our sister. However, there will be an excuse for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be imported from other countries through Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I submit to your knowledge. Dear friends, 27 percent of the people living in Turkey are peasants and farmers. Right now, the government has ruined these people by bringing imported meat. Why did he ruin it? On the eve of the Festival of Sacrifice, when the peasant was about to earn a few pennies, bringing in imported meat, the fall of the peasant's goods, it really hurt and ruined both the village and the great manufacturer. I get a lot of calls: Please stop this import... Yes, I say we stop this import. Dear friends, we've had friends here talking about imported meat. I'll tell you this: from 2003 to 2014, the money paid for imported agricultural products, meat and agricultural products in Turkey is $79 billion. If we'd given some of the 79 billion dollars to our village, to our farmer, honestly, we'd never have needed imports. Why wouldn't we stay? Because our own peasant was going to produce it, our own farmer was going to produce it. Today, our villager is crying blood, miserable. When they heard of imported meat in Kars, Ardahan, Ağrı, in that region, the goods of our farmers and peasants became unsold, and stopped, and the sales stopped, and there was no telling what would happen. It is impossible for a citizen to cross the bridge to Thrace at the feast of sacrifice. And yet, the peasant is in an impossible position to get out of the business right now. The peasant has voted for us, he says: "My brother, the cure for my trouble." We have to make the villager's problem the way to make the peasant here, dear friends. The goal is to feed the citizen cheap meat, is that it, brother? If the goal is to feed cheap meat, cheap and good meat... look, you don't know what imported meat is. It says: "There will be fresh meat or frozen meat. You know, when you bring frozen meat -- my teacher knows very well -- there is a lot of bad meat in customs. Is frozen meat going to be okay? He's freezing it there. And when he freezes it, the meat gets watery, when he gets water, he's overweight, when he's overweight, the citizen gets hurt. When it gets here, when it opens, let's say it's at least 300 grams per kilo, citizen. For that, in our Eastern Anatolian region... now I have an offer, I say to the government: I want to feed the citizens quality and cheap meat. Kars, Ardahan, Iğdır, Ağdır, East Anatolian, come in -- I propose -- tender as regions, tender in my district. I've spoken to the villagers today, and I've spoken to my fellow experts about it, and they say that we're ready to give the meat weight to 20 TL, Kars and Ardahan district. Yes, we'll give the weight of the meat to 20 euros. I'm calling to the Minister, instead of bringing meat from the outside, the same meat... how much do you want, brother? 15,000 tons. Mr. Yunus just told me that there are a lot of animals in our area, and he said so himself, we have a lot of animals. If we have a lot of animals, then why bring them from the outside, brother? Then what do we do? I pledge to feed better quality meat to Turkey, which is worth more than 3 of omegas, which we're going to bring from the outside, because I've spoken to the consumers there in Kars, Ardahan, in Ardahan, I don't want to name it. Yes, we're ready to feed 20 TL as Kars-Ardahan territory. Why are you bringing out my brother for the same money? Do you have enmity with our peasant? In that sense, I'm asking you, brother... And the value of omega 3 in meat is very important, my friends. There's no telling what the animal from the outside eats, how it's cut, whether it's broken, whether it's a young animal, whether it's a young animal, because usually -- I'll tell you this -- they slaughter older animals, old animals have bad meat, friends. In that sense, the meat from the outside must be stopped absolutely. Dear friends, in the Kars-Ardahan region, we give you 17-18 lira cards, 12-13 liras live, but we're ready here for 20 lira. There's Huseyin Fitz, and the Chandırı MP, he's an animal. Will you give it to me for the same money or not, Hussein, for 20 lira? Tell me, you're the representative of the AK PARTY, will you give it to me for 20 lira or not? You will, won't you? Yeah, he says he will. Then why bring it from the outside? I'm telling you guys, we're way behind bringing in imported meat. Look, I'll give you a number. Professor Dr. Yunus Kılıç, my friend, said that in Turkey citizens consume 13 kilos of meat per person a year, red meat. Do you know how much they consume in America? They consume 125 kilos, 125 kilos a year in the U.S., 102 kilos in Hong Kong.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0053par0440	Don't count him.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0052par0441	Sir, wait a minute... In Australia, one person consumes 142 kilograms of red meat a year, in Germany, our neighbor Germany, 82 kilos a year, and we weigh 13 kilos a year. Now, look, there are few of our people who are actually worth a lot of omega 3 and have mera meat and feed on omega 3. Now our things are coming out, sir, eat white meat. Okay, eat white meat. But in fact the omega is worth 3 and the high nutritional value is in red meat, it's in mera meat, it's in Kars, my friends. And now in the meat and milk combining -- I just spoke to a friend of mine from Kars. -- they're slaughtering nonfat animals. What is it? I don't take the oil, I take the meat. Well, brother, you used to take it with your oil. Then you know what happens? One person, 18 to 20 kilos per animal, in an animal. However, if he buys it with its oil, the citizen will gain 18-20 kilos, and then the Meat and Milk Association will find as many animals as they want, and when they find animals, they will cut up animals, and they will not need to buy animals from the outside. Look, this is a very important thing. I beg the Minister of Agriculture: When the Meat and Milk Association buys animals from the citizen, let them call it meat to you, to me. Let him take it with his oil, brother, and give a price. If he takes it with his oil, I mean it, then the warehouses will be filled with meat. Here's what our friend said, there's a lot of animals in our pasture. In that sense, dear friends, what should we do? We need to multiply the combinations of the Meat and Milk Foundation; we need to make sure that we have them installed, one, for sure. Second: Our friends have already bought an animal for 6,000 TL, which is now down to 3,000 liras. These friends bought it for 6,000 TL, and the Ministry of Agriculture released the imports, and the animal went down to $2.33,000. Right now, our citizens, the people who took that animal, are in great harm. At the very least, let the loans of our citizens be postponed without interest. Look, we're drafting a bag of laws, there's 128 items, friends, nothing about agriculture, nothing about peasants. What in God's name is this peasant doing? The peasant makes you everything, brings you to your table, but what do we do? We don't erase the village's interest in the bag law. Let's erase someone else's trades, I'm not against it, let's erase everyone's interest, but let's erase the villager's interest and make it easy. The village is being made easy. They call it "the village." What is it? Why don't you take interest from someone else, brother? Are the villagers richer, dear friends? In that sense, I beg you, accept this motion, we'll make a research motion, and we'll stop the imported meat, let our village win, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0054par0451	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mardin MP Erol Dora... Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0055par0454	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party following a motion by the National Movement Party to investigate the problems of the livestock industry in our country. I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to start by saying that I'll speak in favor and support this motion, even though I've made a promise against it. Animalism is one of the major sectors of the overall economy in many countries, especially developed countries. In Turkey, although nearly 30 per cent of the population in the agriculture sector is able to provide for livestock, animalism is unable to contribute to the country's economy. While for many reasons, one of the most important reasons is that rather than commercially animalism, there is a significant amount of living animalism. Precious lawmakers, although at a 30 per cent level of agricultural production, have yet to see enough support from the state, which contributes to a substantial amount. Although our country is first in the world in terms of its animal population, it is neither efficient nor productive. Dear lawmakers, even though there are many problems with Turkey's animalism, it is possible to assess its most important problems under four main topics: first, the problem of bait and feeding. This problem has been threatening Turkey's animalism for years. The root of this problem is the production of animal plants without weight in their agriculture, and, depending on that, the lack of meadows, mera fields. The production of small animals in livestock companies is still an important problem, usually with the food from outside the business and unfortunately with hay. Second, it is possible to discuss health and care problems. Unfortunately, non-modern stables are still at the forefront of livestock in Turkey. There's no talking about ventilation and barn hygiene in these stables. In these stables, it's natural to breed all kinds of germs, to harbor disease. However, the country's economy continues to suffer major losses due to the effects of hijab, tuberculosis, cattle plague and parasitic diseases. Another problem is lack of training and technical staff. Education and technical staff support are essential to success in livestock. In order to receive the desired efficiency of breeding animals, the breeder must be trained in care, feeding and health care, providing technical support that he needs. Another problem is the lack of organization. In Turkey, it is not right to talk about the existence of a systemic organisation based on breeders, except for the breeding of cattlekeepers in the field of livestock. It is very difficult for studry cattlekeepers to have a say in Turkey as well as in its membership. Precious lawmakers, policies that are the cornerstone of animal policy in Turkey show itself in the 1960s. In these years, a number of state-owned companies have been able to engage the state in animal production. However, economic policies that were implemented after the 1980s began privatising these institutions and withdrew from the livestock market. In the market today, 5-6 major firms have a say. Some of these companies have formed foreign partnerships and become cartels in milk and meat markets. Although today there seem to be many supports in Turkey's animalism, such as payments to bait plants, tools, equipment supports, support for pregnant heifers, calf support, artificial seeding support, milk support payments, and construction of a milking plant, these supports are not capable of increasing animal production. Dear MPs, Turkey's animalism must be developed by consistent long-term policies, which do not change according to governments, rather than day-to-day policies. Qualified policies in livestock, both to improve agricultural structures and to increase production, are unfortunately untraceable. In one country, increasing animal production is either by increasing the number of animals or by increasing all the efficiency per animal. Clearly, the first path will not be an alternative because it is evident that this option is not economical when studied scientifically. In the middle term and the surest solution is to turn the country's animalism into reforming, efficiency-enhancing policies per animal. Precious lawmakers, according to the developed countries in Turkey, meat and dairy per diem are low due to the lack of education and training of animal workers, nutrition, maintenance and producers. An application similar to the support of plant products in Turkey applies to livestock businesses. This support is not simply a support that sustains animal enterprises and is intended to produce and expand businesses. Compared to the European Union countries, Turkey's value of animal production is very low in the total agricultural production value. For example, the average share of agricultural production in the European Union is around 50 per cent. In some countries, that rate is up to 75 percent or even 80 percent. In Turkey, it is about 25 per cent. Besides, there are very few private businesses in Turkey that are just animal workers. Dear lawmakers, we can talk about some steps that need to be taken in this framework. The first step is to gradually remove animalism from the way it operates as a family, and encourage collective production. An approach similar to land collection is also needed to be developed for the collection of animals. In our country, which is on its way to the European Union, basic foods such as meat, milk, eggs need to be observed in each phase, from production to table. In this framework, the Ministry of Agriculture must monitor every stage of animal production and develop the required standards. Animalism is not necessarily the result of a village lifestyle, but it is necessary to move the private sector to farming. Dear lawmakers, another important problem with animalism is that it cannot be found a qualified shepherd. In this regard, qualified shepherd training must be organised with the relevant departments of the Ministry of Agriculture. Increased level of education in the animal industry should be made easier for businesses to buy technical services in order to ensure the flow of information between researchers, publishers and producers, to take economic, social and scientific measures in the animal sector, to ensure that the producer's need for education and communication is the shortest and constant. In addition, organisation and co-operation must be supported between researchers working at universities, research institutions and the Ministry of Agriculture and Animalism to ensure communication between publishers and producers. Dear lawmakers, during the planned period in our country, a wide range of regional development policies have been implemented. Different policy tools, such as regional development projects, city and regional plan experiences, primary regional policy and regional incentives, seem to have failed to produce visible results. One of the reasons is the concentration of the results, not the causes of regional underdevelopedness. Precious lawmakers, the imbalances in poverty and income distribution, the lack of unqualified labour power, the lack of institutional capacity in the local area, the population movement between the village and the cities, the distorted urbanization, are actually caused by the social impact of fundamental issues in Turkey's economic structure. The economic focus of regional development on structural problems will contribute to the development of more realistic solution proposals. Dear lawmakers, macro-economic policies that are being implemented across the country are not contributing to the development of regions with different features and needs. Since Turkey's economy does not provide a homogeneous structure, it is not appropriate to establish a national development policy at the only national level that ignores inter-regional differences. Instead, an understanding is needed to assess each region in its own autonomous conditions and adopt the proper development models. I support this motion and say we'll vote on it, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0056par0474	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0057par0475	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit02spe0056par0476	I submit the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0056par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The nationalist Action Party's proposal was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 24/07/2014 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP M. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP Aydın Ayayydın and his friends have issued a parliamentary research proposal (1451), which was issued by the Capital Market Board on July 1, 2014 to determine the steps that should be taken by the Turkish Parliament for the purpose of eliminating the status of the small investor, as well as to protect the small investor, but also to remove the elements that undermined Istanbul's prestige. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Thursday 24/07/2014 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. On the other hand, İstanbul MP Aydın Ayadın. Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0058par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, public companies are extremely useful for the country's economy and contribute to the country's economy. It is also true to encourage them. Public companies have certain parts that are available to the public for small investors. How to make a public offering, it's better to take a look at it first. Companies on the Istanbul Stock Exchange are going through at least a year's worth of time to be brought to the public and to take part there. He is evaluated by the company that will be open to the public by two separate independent control agencies. All assets owned by the company are valued, their real estate is evaluated, their entire financial structure is examined, and that process takes about a year. Later, this company was placed on the Istanbul Stock Exchange, where it began to be processed. Now, a public supply company that's going through this long to go public can be withdrawn within a month by making a value assessment, according to the new notification of the SPK. There's a great injustice that can be caused here. I don't think either the government or the Prime Minister knows about this. If they knew, I'd be out of the stock market for a company that's so important to the country's economy. I'm getting the five percent of what the small investor has at the price I want, which is what it's worth in the last 30 days. I'd like to present you with a few examples. Now, three and a half years ago, OMV, the Austrian oil giant, bought shares of the Petroleum Office in the hands of the Born Holdings, for how much? He got it for about $8. Now the same company, the OMV company, the shares of the Oil Office, says I'm out of the quota, I'm out of the stock market. According to the SEC's new statement, whatever the last 30 days price is, the small investor buys out the stock. Now, OMV or any other company, of course, should have the right to say I'm leaving the stock market. You have to give it to yourself, but it's better to get it out of there in any way that the company enters the stock market. So, when you walked in here, you made a value assessment of two independent control agencies, you had the company's real estate appraised, you had all of its financial structures checked out, and that's how you got into the stock market about a year later, but I'm out of the stock market. You say, there's no transaction, you're just getting out of the last thirty-day stockholder's stock. It's so unfair to this little investor, you're crushing the little investor. The small investor sold his property, whatever he had, he bought those shares, and now you're saying that I'm giving you your money over the last 30 days, and I'm leaving. All the big companies in the stock market can do that. I mean, the little investor gets his shares at a very cheap price and I get his right to say "I'm out of the stock market." With this new notice from the SPK. I met with SEC President Vahdetttin Bey. An extremely well-meaning person, a decent person. Of course, he didn't take it out in bad faith when he took it off, but there's an injustice here. Let's say there's been a war in the last thirty days. In the last thirty days, Israel strikes Gaza, and demand for the stock market falls. And when the stock market's demand goes down, the stock market's value goes down. At that time, I'm out of the stock market. The company, which says, "I'm out of the stock market." At a cheap price, the small investor takes away those shares. How was this used to be done? For the first time, the right to quit the partnership was held in 2012 by SEC Law 6362. How did it used to be done? The average value of the last five years, or the independent control agency, was assessed, which was the highest value, and the judge's partner had to buy the stock from the small investor at that high price. How's he doing today? Today, in the last 30 days, that company has to take over whatever it's worth. The citizen, the small investor, I don't sell my share. He can't say, he has to sell it, so the judge has to give it to the partner. Moreover, he has to sell over the last 30 days of value assessment that he desires. Now, it's not the Republican People's Party's job, it's not the government's job, it's not the National Movement Party's problem, it's really everyone's problem with the country's economy. Come on, let's give it up, let's solve this little investor problem together. Now, I'm going to give you a couple more examples of the iron root. Seven years ago, German giant Vaillant of the Coach Group bought the Ironwall. How much did he buy his share for? He bought the stock for 5.4 euros. Now, this Vaillant, who applied on July 1st, says I'll be out of the market. Of course you can, it's not right to limit it, but I bought the stocks from the small investor -- 5.4 euros earlier -- now I'm going to buy them for 5.4 Turkish liras. It's a huge injustice to crush the little investor. What did we say when we took out the Capital Market Law? I'm reading to you from his motive, and he's saying, "We're going to get them to buy it at a fair price to protect the little investor." Is that the fair price? Buying the shares you bought for 5.4 euros seven years ago now from the small investor for $5.4 Turkish dollars -- that's not fair, it's almost like crushing the small investor. He took all of his assets and put them to bed, and now we're bringing down these small investors in Turkey to those big corporations, big, world giant companies. That's not true. Let's fix this with his power and opposition. Let's put a clause in the Capital Market Act, and just as the IPO can become a public company in a year, then let's make it possible for the companies to get out in at least a year, so that they don't become victims of small investors. How's that supposed to be? Let's say a company that's on the market, if they want to get out of the market, they can get out a year from now, and whether it's a year from now, the small investor can sell it today, sell it three months later, sell it six months later, or buy it a year later from the average annual value the partner has offered. As long as we don't do this, we're gonna crush the little investor. At the time, when we were going to evaluate Istanbul, the Stock Exchange was going to be a huge financial center in Istanbul and it was going to cost the world? Come, let's join hands, and we'll all avoid this victimization of the small investor. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you for listening to me patiently.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0059par0031	Thank you, Mr. Aya morning. Against him, İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0060par0035	Mr. President, I have been sworn by the Republican People's Party on behalf of the AK PARTI Group against the ruling partner's right to disqualify minority partners in public partnerships and the group's proposal to get out of stock jeans. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the first SEC arrangement for getting out of stock jeans is the board's decision dated July 30, 2010. This decision has determined the procedure and the basis for companies whose shares are traded in the stock market to get out of stock jeans of their own free will. Prior to the process, there would have to be an offer of a share by judges who have directly or indirectly more than 95 per cent of their capital and voting rights. Under the specified board decision, the original price for the bid was set in the following way. The first method, the first method, was: After the July 30, 2010 decision was published, the original price was valued at the purchase price of 95 per cent, so the price of the remaining 5 per cent shares could be priced at that price. The second alternative is: If there was a 95 per cent and more than 95 per cent judgeship as of July 30, 2010, then, with the stock prices to be set up by the two expert agencies; if there was a mandatory bid under board regulations over the last five years, five years prior to the date of the board's decision, if that is not the case, then there would be a substantial pricing of the decision to be made, based on the formula specified by the decision. As we can see in this decision, we can easily state that the start date varys according to the date of the call. But I think that pricing companies should be done according to current prices in the free market economy, based on supply and demand. Here's the thing, valuable lawmakers: Usually, in growing markets and when the index rises, the length of time is in favor of the judge partner, and against the junior partners. So the longer he's held, the more profitable the judge partner gets. On the contrary, in the narrowing markets and when the index was down, there was a situation in favor of minority partners and against judges partners. To illustrate: As of today, our stock market was around 80 thousand and about 60 grand a year ago. Now, if you take this one year, the stock market from 60,000 to 80 thousand, and however long you extend it, the judge partner has the opportunity to buy shares at a lower price, but the small partner has a much more advantageous situation if the time increases in developing markets, if the current prices are used. See, high-value lawmakers, both the minority and the judges, need to find the optimum point. The price that needs to be set at this point, in fact, is going to have to be a price for the advantage of both sides. I think it's more realistic that the company's latest price, the price, was determined by the market as healthy, and I think it's more realistic that it's being used as a healthy price. I don't think it's right to make a general assumption that the five years before a decision like this will be in favor of the junior partner anyway. Dear lawmakers, the 23rd article of the Capital Market Law is considered to be the important procedure to get out of the stock jeans (II-23) and the basis for this is the board's (II-23). Number 1 is specified by the notification. The 95 per cent threshold was based on and the judge partner who had this share was obliged to make a purchase offer, and in the 30 days before he made the offer, the weighty average of the prices was determined to determine the prices of the stocks. As of late, your honor -- he just expressed -- has made statements about some firms coming out of the stock market. Now, valuable lawmakers, 26 companies in the stock market are represented by 5 per cent, and five of these companies have made a statement about the release of the stock market and the removal of small partners. Three of them have applied to the board, two of them are still in the process of thinking after the statement, and their total share in the stock market is less than two thousand to a thousand. The SEC -- look, this is very important -- in applications to the board, as it has been made public by the Capital Market Board -- is in accordance with the regulations of the law on stock price in the past month; there is a mistake, a mistake that affects price creation in financial tables; whether there is information that can not be disclosed to the public, that can affect price creation; whether there is a situation that cannot be explained at the share price of the sector or not; in short, there is an approach to protect the interests of minority shareholders in the last month. The 30-day price average is valid for companies with no problems in financial tables and stock price. The board has the right to do this if one or several of the elements that I've just counted have been detected as a flaw or irregularity: 1) The board may not accept the application. 2) Mali may ask for correction in paintings. 3) If there is an artificial price at market price, he may not consider the period. 4) Out of 30 days' time, he can provide alternative approaches to protect and implement the interests of minority partners, such as asking for additional methods and time-consuming pricing. It's in the power of the Board. Dear lawmakers, the relevant arrangement, the arrangement for dissolution of this partnership and the dissolution of the stock jeans, offers two options for the judge partner; one of them is to remove the company from the stock jeans, and the other is to remove minority partners from the company. If the company chooses the first method -- if it chooses to leave the market -- it can do so; the minority can sell its shares of the common price within three years, or it can continue its partnership according to the Turkish Trade Law. But if the company prefers this method, this method of disintegrating it, that is, using the methods that I've just expressed, it buys stocks over the price specified, and that's where the partnership ends. Dear lawmakers will question the company's decision as the Capital Market Board decides whether to leave the stock market or disseminate its junior partner, review the above issues separately, try to protect the interests of minority partners to a maximum extent. I also read the motion carefully, and there was a statement about the fact that these three firms were coming out of the stock market, that the economy was not going well, that this could be considered a signal. Dear lawmakers, look, I want to express to you that the world economy is looking forward to a growth of 2.8 on 2014. Our expectations as Turkey are about 4%. This is a value about 1.5 times higher than the world average. Another issue is employment, which is related to the progress of the economy. Turkey, from 2007 to today, provides an average of 4 per cent of employment as well as one of the highest jobs among developing countries over the years. Another issue is this: this is important data about the overall progress of the economy, the number of companies established. Look, we were an economy that started about 50 to 55,000 companies in 2007, and then it fell in the 2009 crisis, and then it dropped a little bit during a period of conscious cooling in 2012, and now, again, it went up over 50,000. And these can give us some ideas about how the economy actually works. For these reasons, I say we will be against the motion given by the Republican People's Party, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0061par0057	Thank you, Mr. Mush. In his favor, Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0062par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to present the views of the People's Party Group of Republican People's Party in favour of the motion to address the issues that have victimised the small investor, to protect the small investor, and to determine the steps that need to be taken in order to eliminate elements that undermine the prestige of the Stock Exchange İstanbul. I salute the grand jury. The motion is to address the issues that victimize the small investor, of course, about the stock market. In fact, when you looked at the statements of the party group spokesman, who were talking about the issues expressed here, either in favor of the motion or against it, we saw that there were technical detailed explanations. But one thing I'd like to say is that the fact that such an issue has been raised shows a situation where there is no stable economic structure in the country, where problems arise, and hesitations happen. In favor of this, whether we speak against it or against it, we've also examined the other speakers' statements as well as a number of macroeconomic indicators, evaluations. Of course, without reviewing macroeconomic issues, it can be directly expressed, but I don't think it's right. Now, once again, let's say that we've seen how people were victimized in this period, especially during the AKP period, in matters like the Lighthouse and so on, other than the stock market, were also supported by power. Now, if we see that this side of the job is complete... what have we done that some of the ministers have said in very kind terms that they think that the people involved should resign, but it hasn't happened for a long time? We saw it with our own eyes. Now, when we take the situation from this point of view, it means that the part of the business outside the capital market, outside the stock market, is actually about to be completed or completed. And we see that it's been brought to light by some of the problems that are happening in the market, in the transactions there, in the stock market companies, in the part that's associated with the small investor. But I think there's a macroeconomic framework here, and there's a need to look at things in business. Now, we're considering the bag of law. The bag is a very important part of the law -- even if it's against tradition -- dear friends of what? He has economic provisions. What does the provision of economic provisions, the postponement of debts, the postponement of taxes, the various times of postponement, and the implementation of different interest in these timings show? The condition of the citizen -- despite these delays every year -- shows clearly that he is not well, that he cannot make the payments. Recently, there is one thing that has emerged in economic newspapers in particular, in the economic press: what is being done, what is being done, what is being done, what is being done, what is being done with the companies that entered the first 500, and what is being done with the companies that entered the first 1,000. Look, I looked at today's statements from the president of the 7-8 Chamber of Commerce, the head of the industrial room, and they want the number of installments raised from 36 to 60 months in the configuration. What does that tell us? What they're doing is the economy isn't working hard enough, and what they're doing here is they're not going to be able to take their jobs, even though they're being given new opportunities with the bag of laws. They're asking for a record pardon for those affected by the 2008 crisis. So they couldn't solve their problems, they couldn't borrow. They call it the Eximbank, Development Bank, Loan Guarantee Fund. They obviously can't make enough use of them, they can't solve their financial problems. development of new capital markets for the real sector. The Central Bank is calling for reescontract loans to come back. They want a little more support for companies who have exceeded certain limits in exporting. Now, although this is the case, Mr. Babacan, he's expressed something about Mr. Survivor's macroeconomics before. Look, it's new, what do you have to do yesterday? It would require a stable economic environment, Mr. Babacan says. He talks about the decline of industrial production in national revenue, which he clearly declares will have very dangerous consequences -- probably not because his third term is over -- that the economy has entered the most difficult period, and the results of the 2009 crisis have pushed the right society even worse, and they can't be eliminated. Without producing, he says, luxury malls and luxury housing with external loans will put Turkey at a dead end. Mr. Survivor expressed it earlier in a sense, what did it mean? In Turkey, sources have not been rationally used in the past decade, and have been going to construction and specific areas, he said. Now, when we see this, Mr. Babacan tells us that they can't perform before 2015, and it's clear and clear. Now, when you look at the situation, then you see that the country is not getting better. When a product cannot produce a valuable product, the national income is low, and the current income is high, he says. Right, the private sector says fixed capital investments aren't going well, says it's dangerous for the future. A while ago, there was a statement from a friend in power here about growing up. Since 2008, income per person has increased three times in Turkey. The national income, which you call it, unfortunately, has dropped 7 per cent in the first quarter of this year. Why are you hiding these facts from the public, and why don't you want to tell them? I've told that to the ministers. Now, when you say that, I don't know if the AKP Group knows that you have to work and win to live in a luxury dwelling and shop at the mall. Those who make it easy know what they're doing to increase it. ▪ There is no luxury shopping, not without production, not without merit, not with external loans, nor with luxury housing, he says. When the AKP arrives, we make it very clear that 50 liras of its income goes to debt, which goes to debt for $5 of its income. Now, there are 130,000 taxpayers in three major counties who can't pay the installments. No stability. The president of the SEC is changing his law, redesigning it; here, with a motion, he learns that he will not be able to make his own law here. Just a motion that would make it possible for him to leave, and it was possible to change it in another way. Now, in the new SEC Law, small investors will be protected, adapted to European legislation, and the SPK will re-organise these tasks according to the Turkish Trade Law, according to daily needs. So, did this happen? Then why are we talking about the little investor? We're talking about the Bank of Agriculture, because of the policies the 57th Government has implemented, the Bank of Agriculture is standing. You used the legal infrastructure prepared by that government, you extended agreements with the IMF. Now in the EU, banks are being written and drawn, trying to negotiate with certain agreements. There are $1.2 trillion in exports, $1.9 trillion in imports, over $700 billion in foreign trade deficits during the AKP period. Over 700 billion foreign trade deficits have a current deficit of around $355 billion at current prices. So, what happened to this current transaction deficit? The country's external debt has increased. The country is living in the worst time in its history in the austerity league. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] No one's got any money left to save, especially your little savings, no way. So, in favor of the motion, I give you all my regards. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0063par0076	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Against him, Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0064par0080	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge by the Republican People's Party to investigate the victimic problem of a small investor due to a statement issued by the Capital Market Board on 1 July. Of course, protecting the little investor, not condemning the superior will of the judges, we agree here. A small investor should never be eaten or victimized under a major investor in any way. If there's a mistake, one missing and one victim in the notification issued by the Capital Market Board, then there's another case that can be resolved with a notice. It also extends the process that some of the transactions that need to be addressed through notifications or administrative procedures can be carried out here by regulatory procedures, by regulatory procedures, without the fact that both the victims and capital are genuinely timid, where capital and money can always be able to escape from anywhere. If there's a mistake, if there's a mistake, we'll continue negotiations with the President of the Capital Market Board, in the eyes of the government, in the eyes of our ministers. About them, as for the notification, the notification, the law, the legislation, we think these problems can be fixed, and I'd like to state from here that we're going to do so. Our friend, who was just quoted, said that all victims were supported by power. No victims were supported during the EC PARTY period. Wherever there are victims, wherever there are victims, at the point where their victims are being relieved, problems are not being swept under the carpet, problems are being moved to the agenda, radical steps are being taken to the point of resolving. Now, I think it's not right to express some of the statements made by the presidents of the Chamber of Commerce, some of the demands, as if there was a problem here.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0065par0084	What about Kepez Electric, Çukurova Electric?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0064par0085	Of course, the business community, the business man, the presidents of the business and industry room, always have the right to make new arrangements and new demands from the government to improve their business, to do business under better conditions.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0066par0086	Are you answering me?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0064par0087	When a person makes a request, it does not mean that there are many problems.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0066par0088	Are you answering me?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0064par0089	There will be demands, the government will meet them. Of course, right after the demands, everything is not going well. I think it's not quite right to say it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0066par0090	Have you looked at the equity/borrowing rate? Do you know anything about this stuff?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0067par0091	Oh, how funny!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0064par0092	Of course, Mr. Babacan spoke with our Minister yesterday. There's a crack between the AK PARTY group here, and there's nothing like it, and there's nothing between us. What he wants to say is, brother, let's not waste it without saving it. Be more careful when you spend luxury, be more careful, let's be more careful, and let's not stand in the way of a deficit.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0066par0093	I didn't say he had a problem with you! You're making this up!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0064par0094	I thought that this motion for research, which was brought as a group proposal, could be resolved by administrative regulations, by notification, by legal legislation, and not subject to a research motion. And for a week, eight days, we've been interviewing bag law, Law 639 rows here, thanks to the great support of the opposition, with its contribution, in a beautiful month of Ramazan! Really, we carry on a work that all our friends are pleased with, with the help and support of the opposition!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0066par0096	You know, the national income dropped on the dollar?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0068par0097	Ask them if they're leaving Apo. You're giving up on Apoh!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0066par0098	He fell on a dollar.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0068par0099	Have you heard the explanation?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0066par0100	Don't even talk about it! You're lying and you're talking wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0069par0101	As soon as it doesn't get there before the holidays, we'll be able to pass the law that's on our agenda to continue after the holidays.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0068par0102	If there was a Covenant, let go...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0066par0103	You're talking, you're throwing!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0070par0104	TORGAVE...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0071par0105	Look, in a moment, we've brought up a change of interest to the 4/C people, and we've brought up a holiday gift to all 4/CH people -- those of us who are now around 23,000 -- with the alliance of all groups.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0066par0106	Are you a TURGAVIST?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0072par0107	I'm a TOURGAVist. What are you?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0073par0108	Just answer for him!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0072par0109	Are you uncomfortable?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0073par0110	Give me the account!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0072par0111	What's in it?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0074par0112	That's why I'm informing you that we're not participating in the research motion. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0075par0115	Explain, explain.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0076par0116	Go on, say it, say it! Tell me if you have the heart.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0077par0117	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0078par0118	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0079par0119	Are you in charge of Kerkuk?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0077par0120	I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0080par0121	Let's vote electronically.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0081par0122	I'm proud to be there, proud to be there. I'm a member of ten more foundations.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0082par0123	Business is good, business is good!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0081par0124	Don't be rude! Bastard! You're an asshole. I'm telling you, you're an asshole! If that's what you're doing, then that's what you're doing.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0082par0125	It's you, and you're the best!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0083par0126	Let's do it with the electronics, no arguments. I'll give you a minute. Now, of course, since what we see and what we see is different... Wait a minute.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0084par0131	If you did that, you are. I'm a member of ten more foundations.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0085par0132	Good deeds, good deeds!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0084par0133	I'm a member of ten more foundations, ten more foundation members like him. Get jealous, get mad! What's it gonna be?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0086par0134	What happened to you?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0084par0135	What a move!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0086par0136	Did I step on your foot? What? What happened?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0084par0137	You ask the one next to you, and he'll tell you, he whispers in your ear.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0086par0138	What the hell is next to you? You're talking to the Deputy Director of the Group, don't be disrespectful!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0084par0139	Shame on you, Mr. President! It's moving, you don't see it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0087par0140	What is it? What are you talking about, huh?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0084par0141	You whisper in his ear, and he answers. Shame on you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0088par0142	How can you call a congressman fuckinglan?! How dare you say that!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0087par0143	What? What do you say?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0089par0144	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0090par0145	Who did he call "Lan"? Who's saying that?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0087par0146	What do you say?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0090par0147	You call it "Lan"? I'll return it to whoever he says. I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0091par0150	The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0092par0151	Elitaş, we're not infected, we're infected...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0093par0152	I'm warning you, I'm shutting you up, but does that mean you have to say "Lan" to me? He said, "Lan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0092par0153	He didn't say that! Where? Is there a report?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0094par0154	I'll give it back to whoever says so.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit03spe0095par0155	I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0095par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who are ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey and the Constitutional Proposal and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, with 108 legal proposals for the amendments to certain Laws and Laws. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, motions were read on Article 66 in the third part of the draft law, which was considered the main law under Article 91, and remained in the most irregular motion ever read. The motion of Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and his friends has been corrected in a manner that will not exceed 500 words on the basis of the objection. I'm reading the revised motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Mesin MP Mehmet Şandir Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı The following temporary clause is added to the Law 66 - 5510. INTERVIEWED in Soma district of Manisa Province on 59 - 13/5/2014, all debts to the institution are abandoned, and the second joke of Article 32 (a) to the rightful owners is subject to a monthly bond according to the Law. The amount of premiums predicted in this Law will be paid by the Ministry of Finance. In the monthly bonding of the deceased's insurance holder to his parents, the first clause of Article 34 (d) is not required to be less than the minimum amount of income and per month's income specified by each and all other children, except the income earned and the monthly income and/or the conditions unconnected. A total of two people, including those who lost their lives in the fatal mining accidents of Manisa Province from 15/08/1950 to date -- wife or child, parents or children who lost their lives, spouses and children -- (II), parents and parents who did not exercise their rights -- 13/5/2014 -- are working underground during the mine accident of Soma County, while the people who were left alive are working in an underground area during the mining accident of Manisa Province, and those who have been left alive, 10/12/2003 and 5018 have been appointed by public financial control laws, (II), (III), their siblings who have been appointed by the authorities, and the authorities, and the authorities who have been responsible for their rights to each of the state and other, including the authorities, and the authorities and the authorities who have been appointed by their rights, have been appointed by the authorities, and the authorities, and the authorities and the authorities and the authorities and the authorities and the authorities have been appointed by each other. As part of this joke, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy shall determine the publication of this Law within three months of the date. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0096par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0095par0034	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0097par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0095par0036	Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0098par0039	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in Article 66. I salute you all. In the 66th article, dear friends, our workers who lost their lives in the Soma mining disaster are being abandoned their debts regarding social insurance, and their rights are being given a monthly commitment to the families of our workers, who have not lost their lives and who have lost their lives, and who are missing their bonuses are being paid by the Ministry of Finance, and some criteria for the monthly commitment to their parents are being removed, and one of our miners who has lost their lives is also being given access to one of their spouses or children. We support this material because we find it positive, but in this business, of course, the whole of our workers who have lost their lives, because most of them are young, and because their families are responsible for their livelihood, there is a serious loss of labor and income. That's why we demand that the right to this job be given to two people. Dear lawmakers, you know, our $46.5 million citizens in AFAD have received donations and assistance for the mining disaster in Soma. The $16.5 million was a donation made by the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges. The Prime Minister also received donations from the Chambers and Stock Exchange Association, transforming that check image into a large banner, and announced that $44.5m would be distributed at $154,000 per worker who lost his life. However, there's a way of giving it, and there's also publicity, and it's officially propagandaed by the Prime Minister and some AKP executives and lawmakers, as if the citizens' donations are being made a political propaganda tool. It's like the Prime Minister's paying out of his own pocket. In fact, I don't know if the Prime Minister ever made a personal donation to AFAD himself. We had a very interesting situation yesterday, dear friends. Our miners called from Soma. The message from our miners in Soma is being sent to their mobile phones, announcing the help of the Prime Minister's campaign for presidential candidacy. Of course, when I say that, the AKP's friends immediately say, "It's the message to the members."
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0099par0045	All over Turkey...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0098par0046	Yeah, he's been all over Turkey. We also know that hundreds of thousands of people who didn't know were made members of the AKP. But, that's an excuse...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0100par0047	How do you know?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0098par0048	Yeah, I know. It's not an excuse, it's a grave confession to Somalı workers, it's not an excuse to go to AKP members. What's he confessing to, dear friends? Because he says that if I hadn't been a member of the AKP, they wouldn't have hired me in the mine anyway. Most of the uncles in the mines are AKP members, firm executives are AKP members. Without AKP reference, you can hardly enter these mines without a member of the AKP. So Soma Charcoals was made by the AKP channel -- I mean the company where the accident took place. I brought it up in 2010, and I asked the Minister of Labor at the time with a motion to question it. There are also announcements made by Salihli AKP district chief on his mobile phone that there will be hiring workers in the mines in Soma, Eynez, Lights, Atabacasi, and that the applications should be made to AKP district office by now. These are the issues that came up in 2010. The union channel into Soma Sports, the collection of dues to Soma Sports, a member of the AKP city council and the name of the executive financial manager of this firm, and the investments made by the municipality to the workers in the wedding hall where the land is reserved, and this is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the forced transport of workers to AKP rallies and other issues that we're going to count are showing the current company's organic relations with the AKP. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0101par0054	Thank you, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0102par0055	Mr. President, there's bullying here.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0101par0056	Sir...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0103par0057	What teasing, sir? If there's bullying, there's government, don't tease.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0102par0058	It's a tease.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0101par0059	About what?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0102par0060	First, it says that we present the help of our nation here as aid from our government and the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0104par0061	Let him speak, sir. There's no such thing as bullying; the Deputy Prime Minister is here, the government representative is here.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0102par0062	However, either the help that the TOBB had done or the help that our nation had done, our Prime Minister stated that we did it through the AFAD channel and presented it to our nation. We said thank you to our people. There's no AK PARTY propaganda in this. On the other hand, the people who entered the Soma mines were members of the AK PARTY. He needs to prove it. Everyone knows how people get jobs there. So there's a slander, there's a slander.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0104par0064	No, sir, he's not a spokesman for the AKP, he's a government, etc. "Bühtan" is teasing, and I want words. Here's the ad, the ads...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0105par0067	I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0106par0068	Now, you're not exactly being bullied.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0105par0069	Some MPs used his statement here.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0106par0070	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0105par0071	Some of the MPs have said that we have presented the aid, not by the nation, but by the government, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0107par0072	Why do you take it personally? Did you advertise it?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0108par0073	Why is it your business, is it yours?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0107par0074	Mr. President, of course, I don't want to...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0109par0075	Please, let me answer more than a word. Don't say a word, let him speak.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0107par0076	...there's more teasing here.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0109par0077	Here you go, Congressman, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0110par0081	Mr. President, the distinguished lawmakers who have just spoken on this stand have given our nation a call to help out after the mine accidents in Soma. And then, after the AFAD campaign was run by the AFAD and the aid reached 46.5 million, the Prime Minister's thanks to both the AFAD. That's never gonna happen. We thank our beloved nation, we thank all who help us, and we thank the AFAD. In these past disasters, there have been relief campaigns during the MHP-DP-ANAP administrations, and here our nation has shown its magnificence, its generosity, its generosity, and its philanthropy. And those who were given power at that time did not present themselves, and they said to the people, Another issue is: In an environment of 15,000 people who enter the Soma mines or are found there, certainly those who belong to the EC PARTY are not involved in the work there, those who deserve it. Another concern is that our Prime Minister's charity campaign -- our presidential candidate -- is also valid for Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu and for Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş. Every candidate has started a charity campaign. This was arranged by a law issued by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The request or plea we sent with the SMS we sent is certainly not for the workers who work in Soma. It is for those who are participants in our party. That's never gonna happen. We know about the people who work in Soma. We're an honorable party, honorable people, not to take advantage of such a subject. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0111par0086	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0112par0087	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0113par0088	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0112par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0114par0090	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0112par0091	Mr. President, I'd like to point out a procedure. Since yesterday, there has been a habit of ruling party lawmakers from time to time -- and so on -- to respond to opposition party criticism of government, direct criticism of government. That's not true. The government is not blind, deaf and dumb. The government is sitting right there. Let the government respond to this, Mr. President. I don't think that's the right way to do it. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0115par0093	It was called the Regents of Manisa.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0116par0094	The Manisa MPs have been charged.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0112par0095	The government lives there.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0117par0096	Mr. Akçay, you...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0118par0097	Mr. President expressed that I wasn't telling the truth, Mr. Speaker, and that I was in the hospital before I came to the stand. It's a tease, I beg you, I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0117par0098	Don't let any more taunts get in the way. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0118par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'd like to express that I've taken great effort and care not to say anything that isn't true without research.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0119par0103	It's just not true.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0118par0104	I'm saying I brought it up in 2010. We sent his cell phone message to the Minister of Labor. It couldn't be denied. This is a very clear, clear statement, a secret known to everyone in Manisa, Soma, Salihli, and other places.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0120par0105	Is there a secret everyone knows?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0118par0106	It was also sent to members of the AKP. The messages have been sent to all of our miners. Are all of our miners members of the AKP? This confirms our thesis if it's a member of the AKP -- of course I didn't investigate it. That's it, so...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0121par0107	If you'd looked into it, Mr. Erkan, you'd be condemning our fellow workers.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0120par0108	What's the secret everyone knows?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0118par0109	I condemn the government, not our fellow workers, but the AKP. Our fellow workers are the innocentst people here, and they're forced to do so, and that's how they're invited to help. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0122par0112	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetcı Movement Party Group MP Izklı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's bill of MP İzzet Çuken; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz; İstanbul MP İzklı and Millek's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP İzkkkı MP İncüçı's Party of the Parliament; Ankara MP İncı's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey; Ankara's Democratic Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey; Ankara MP İzket İztay Çıt Çıçıçı; İstanbul MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İs Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP İs Party of Turkey's Party; Ankara's Party of Turkey's Party of the Parliament; Ankara MP (TK) and İstanbul MP (TK) and İstanbul MP (TK); İstanbul MP of the Parliament (TK) and İstanbul MP of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party of Parliament; Ankara's Party of parliament's Party's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party of parliament's ( Article 59. We submit and propose that the following joke be added to the article. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends "The rights brought under this clause also benefit the rights of miners who lost their lives as a result of a ten-year backward mining business accident from the date of the law." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0123par0123	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0122par0124	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0124par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0122par0126	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0125par0127	Sakine Öz...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0122par0128	Mr. Sakine Öz, the Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0126par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised the 66th amendment of the bills and proposals. I'd like to talk about the political ad that was mentioned earlier. He mentioned the ad that the Manisa MPs had just issued to the local newspapers in Manisa. I'd like to tell you about this ad that we've made here today by our government in the post-accident hand, describing a lot of the motions we've made in the bag law as if they've done it themselves. This is an ad from a newspaper issued by AKP lawmakers yesterday. "What the government is going to do" is a list of very flawed statements. It's a very wrongly written announcement, such as, "The miner in Soma helps our relatives, housing, salary, unemployment fund, working hours, housing problems, the approval of KOSGEB loans, oliveyards by plundering thermal power plants," and the AKP's promises, which are so wrong, that by grace, they reveal the order that operates on our people's head. I'd like to ask: what happened to the AKP lawmakers of Manisa, when it was meant to be, in the words of a politician, to be, in the heart of it, to give this ad, which most of the articles are baseless? Members of parliament, this bill and newspaper ad will go down in history as a document for those who neglected their 15 promises in Soma, for those who left their mining rights in the mining lobby, for profit accounts. The demands and righteous rebellion of my societal citizens are obvious. We've said it over and over again. At first, we decided to consider Soma a separate law, and unfortunately, you didn't accept it. Then, after that, we asked the Soma Research Commission to write a recommendation to resolve these problems; in the first place, you, AKP lawmakers, rejected them. We said, "Why don't you keep your promises to our workers who are still coming to Ankara, with our efforts, with our proposals, some of them added to the law?" Why are we saying that the political and criminal responsibility of those responsible for the death of our 301 miners is being clouded; you're being neglected, you're leaving them without comment. Government, why don't we tell our workers in the mines that they're suddenly out of work, our workers in Mining, our miners in late and missing wages, why they don't come up with a concrete solution, even though it's been months, and you don't make a sound. Even though we showed the solution by offering the law, in Soma, the coal-packing worker, the mover and the shopkeeper said, "How are we going to pay off our debts tomorrow, how are we going to get the bread home?" You ask questions, you don't answer. Members of parliament, the people of Soma, especially women and children, are on edge tomorrow, waiting. What's said in Ankara flies away until we reach Soma. Soma, full of painful stories. "Family will have security." They said. After the death sentence of our miners, they cut off the social security of women and disabled parents, allowing them to return from the hospital door. "Your son is dead, you have no security." He was called back from the hospital. Our miner's father Muharrem Ergin said, "I sacrificed my son for negligence. They have caused us pain upon pain." he said, summing up the collapse of the state. "The children will be comfortable." They said. When the 432 orphan cubs wrote "zero" on their father's payroll, they kept quiet in the mine lobby. They did not ask once, why does it say zero children? Our city of Beşiktaş has kept its promise. Yesterday, he gave homes to the families of 30 of our mining martyrs. And you, 301, you put your promises to others, you put them to charity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He joined the family of workers and tradesmen in Soma. You tried to create an opportunity by calling it a disaster. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0127par0148	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0128par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0127par0150	Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0128par0151	Sir, he introduced the ads we put in the papers as an advertising tool, Mr. Speaker. We gave it to him for information. We have presented the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which passed through the Plan and Budget Commission and came to the General Assembly, about our miners there, about the dead and the rest of them, to inform the public there. And there's absolutely nothing in there about looting olive groves. Only four months ago, a new organised industry was committed to Soma, and the publicisation work is under way. At least to inform you...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0127par0153	It's in the transcripts, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0129par0154	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit04spe0127par0155	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0127par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of Manisa MP Sakine Öz and his friends' motion was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 66 of Article 66, which stipulates to add temporary clause 5510 of the current 639 Numbered Bill of Laws, shall be changed in the following manner. "A total of five people, including two of the spouses and children of the deceased for reasons stated in the first joke, shall also be applied on the basis of employment on Article 3713 of Law No. 3713, if they do not have a wife and children. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0130par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0127par0014	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0131par0015	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0127par0016	Mardin MP Erol Dora, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0132par0017	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 66 of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Section 639. I salute the General Assembly. In Article 66 of the bill, the miners who lost their lives in the mine disaster in Soma are "designed to all debts to the Social Security Agency and bound to the rightful owners according to the laws of the law. The missing bonuses in this law are paid by the Ministry of Finance to the institution." It's called. In addition, under Law 3713, a family of miners who lost their lives in Soma is envisioned for public employment. Dear lawmakers, the need for this arrangement is very narrow for a country that is first in the world in terms of mortal mining accidents such as Turkey. In this framework, we care and support all rights and economic support for the families of workers who have been killed at work in Soma. On the other hand, similar disasters have occurred, even though the number of workers died in many different mines in Turkey prior to the Soma labor killings has been smaller. In the commission phase of the law, the idea of making arrangements for the families of workers who died in mining disasters, both defended by representatives of the Association of Mining Martyrs and proposed by opposition parties, was rejected by members of the EC PARTI personally. Dear lawmakers are a sign of the government's narrow, superficial and pragmatic view of business killings, which only limits the arrangement involving economic support for mine workers who have lost their lives. We all know that in Turkey, the mines continue to work under conditions that could cause new disasters at any time, without job security. The government's arrangement is to take comprehensive measures to reset the work killings before the job killing can offer economic support to those who are far behind. Dear lawmakers, if Soma's mining workers hadn't been massacred, we wouldn't even be discussing this superficial bill brought to Parliament. Under the basic and priority needs of Turkey's mines and mine workers, Turkish coal mines must be immediately restored to international standards and reservations on the issue should be removed. The wages they receive in exchange for the labors of miners must be raised to reasonable levels of human life. The government must abandon the application of subcontractors. Realistic and reasonable provisions must be made during the weekly working hours of mine workers. Mining operators should be given encouraging support for providing jobs and workers' safety, effective and deterrents should be applied to businesses that do not provide the safety of workers. Mr. President, all statistical data clearly shows that most of the fatal business accidents are due to the lack of necessary measures. Capital and state relations, especially when it comes to dangerous jobs, such as mines, are all based on the interests of the employer, but not on the rights and assurances of the miners who produce and work and risk their lives. Therefore, the first step in business accidents is to improve the working conditions of workers, increase the responsibilities of employers and relevant public authorities. Without the murder of a new worker, we believe we need a more comprehensive, populist and political Rant anxiety, a bag of laws that jam other laws, the safety of the worker, as well as a law and practice that raises the working conditions of the worker and the quality of economic life to developed country standards. We await your support for our motion, and we salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0133par0027	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 66th article has been accepted. Congressmans, there is now a motion for a new clause violation. The proposed bill or proposal is the sentence of the fourth joke of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not appear in the Commission's text of the law on the subject of the proposal, but requires a change of a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the Commission has attended most of the time. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion with the majority of the 21 members, I will open the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Yusuf Halaçoğlu Erkan Akçay Alim Iş Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Fear The Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, No. 67 - 5510, included the following temporary clause. "The Law on Anti-terrorism Act, dated 12/4/1991 and 3713, dated 3/11/1980 and Transparency of Transparency and Monthly Bonding, according to the Law, pays monthly payments or guarantees security, the duty of employees is to receive a pension according to the law. The employee's social security premiums from the period before 1.10.2008 are expunged. The social security benefits premium paid by these employees for their work period before 1,10,2008 is returned with legal interest." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion with your absolute majority?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0134par0042	Mr. President, I'd like to invite the very valued members of our Plan and Budget Commission to the ranks of the Commission.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0135par0043	Say it loud, brother.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0134par0044	I'd like to call the very valuable members of our Plan and Budget Commission to our ranks of the Commission.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0136par0045	Where's Plan and Budget? The law is being negotiated, where is it? Don't you, Mr. Hussein, where are your members, the law is being discussed?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0137par0046	Even the opposition doesn't have dignity.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0134par0047	Mr. President, we don't have a single majority.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0138par0048	Since the commission did not participate in the motion with a simple majority, I'm dismissing the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0139par0049	We don't have a majority. He says, sir, we didn't agree. He didn't say. Mr. Hussein didn't say we didn't agree, sir, there are no majority of them. He said he didn't say if he had joined the motion. Can he express his opinion again?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0138par0050	Yeah, well, he can't do it without a single majority, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0140par0051	Mr. Erkan, there are a lot of Manisas on the Commission, didn't they come and sit down? Anyway, let's get this on the record. There is no Uður Aydemir, so there is no Recai Berber.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0138par0052	Now, let's move on to item 67. In Article 67, there are three proposals of the same nature. I'll have them read the motions, process them together because they're the same property. I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 67 of the Common Order 639 Bill, dated 0/1/1950, be removed from the draft text for adding jokes to Article 7 of Business Courts Law 5521. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ilm Adnan Şişek Ugly Yusuf Halaçoğlu The signatures of the final motion of the same nature: Ali Serindağ Free Haydar Akar Hassan Kören Musa Pine Rahmi Love's Style Bornt Kuşoğlu Mehmet Ali Sesam Gürkut Acar Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0141par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0138par0075	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0142par0076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0143par0077	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0138par0078	I'm reading the reason: Many articles discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission have been submitted into the draft text by violation of the internal and constitutional code. This bill, which is supposed to be about the miners we lost in Soma, should then be added to a large number of non-controversial substances, legislation, and constitutionally compromised and subject to a proper legal process. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. Mr. Ugly, Hatay MP, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0144par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I respectfully salute you all. Congressmans, we oppose the clause we're discussing as the National Movement Party, and we don't agree. After that, I'd like to say a few words about the Syrian refugee issue, which is now one of Turkey's most important problems, since it is also very relevant to Hatay. Members of parliament, nearly 1.5 million refugees are now within Turkey's borders, and many of them are traveling without identification, personalities, or information, such as rogue mines. Of course, it's extremely inconvenient, and we don't see a refugee policy in any part of the world, in any country, when we investigate it, like in Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan addressed them as my guests, opening the doors, expressing that these refugees are our guests and that we are our own. Last time we expressed it here, when we open the door for the guest, it's not over, so after he opens the door, you have to be a homeowner who provides all kinds of needs for him. Of course, when we said that women, girls, in particular -- started there because -- were dragged into prostitution in these Syrian refugees, some of you, in my last speech, strongly objected. It's a fact. Of course, no one in this House, the ruling-migration, all of them included, no human, whether a refugee or a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, living anywhere in the world, would prefer, prefer not to face such a fact, but we have to accept it and accept it when we're talking about a fact. Of course, you're all busy, and I don't think you've been listening to any of these words on Ramadan day, and I don't think that's what the video shows, but still, as the National Movement Party, we're going to put it this way, and one day tomorrow that's going to hit you in the face. In Turkey, where there are still 1.5 million refugees, there is no institution that has been established to deal with the problems of these refugees. So, the AFAD, which has to deal with various disasters, many problems, as part of the law, can't solve any of the problems of refugees by dealing with them. Congressmans, when you open your mouth, you say that the world's 16th-largest economy, the world's leadership, the development in economic space, the development in the economy of Turkey, you say that, but as guests, our Syrian brothers are begging on the roads, they are being dragged into prostitution, they are stealing and they are disrupting order. I mean, it doesn't keep you busy, but it keeps the people in Asia Minor and especially the people of Hatay busy. Either we're going to look at them properly, do our duty properly, or we're not going to be so eager to accept them into our country, it's that simple. I mean, these things don't work out in the sense that I'm in the pasture. With the Prime Minister and the government pursuing the presidential elections, these refugees are walking among us as if they were a bomb. Because of its uncertainty and lack of identity, terrorist organizations have been infiltrated, and we can face the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 5th Reyhan cases -- God forbid -- at any moment. In that case, we will remain in the air again, and then we will attempt to avoid the incident with the talk of.53 Sunni. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0145par0095	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. Mr. Gürkut Acar, MP of Antalya.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0146par0097	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have taken a pledge on our motion for Article 67 of the sack-to-pump mix bill, 639, which is another example of the Justice and Development Party's illegality. I salute you. My dear friends, using our 301 mineral martyrs as a front, you bring civil martial law to Turkey by this law. You give a man a spoon and rip people's eyes out with his handle. According to this bill, the judicial decisions will bind everyone, but we will not be able to prosecute the civil servants, the fellow officers, who do not consider themselves bound by judicial decisions. The government will carry out its judgments if it wants to, and it will not. With this bill, the government declares a virtually veiled martial law. In particular, under the law bill, you suspend the state of law, my dear friends, under the rule that the judicial decisions are not implemented and that the prosecution of those who do not apply should not be prosecuted. I'd like to shout this out to you once again, loud and clear, that you're destroying the principle of binding judgment. You are eliminating the rule of law, which is defined in Article 2 of the Constitution. This provision is clear against all actions and procedures of the Constitution, which I shall read again and again in Article 125 of the Constitution. The rule of law and executive bodies and administration must comply with the court's decisions; these bodies and the administration cannot, in any way, change the decisions of the court and delay the fulfillment of them. The government has even brought this bill, even in violation of the Constitution, because the government knows it will lead to new exiles, and it will not reverse the Constitutional decisions. It will legitimize these new exiles and create a new exodus fair here. This law is definitely an excuse. My dear friends, the Justice and Development Party no longer knows the law, every day there are new regulations against citizens. Look, there's a dam called the Oymapınar Dam in Antalya, my constituency district. The dam is worth $2 billion. You gave this $2 billion dam to the Sejdişehir Aluminum Factory, which was privatized at $350 million. Mehmet Genghis has been running this $2 billion dam for seven years and selling his money. $1.5 billion, or rather, with the old money, has earned 1.5 quadrillion liras here. Now, you bring this law and you say, let's not take this money from Mehmet Genghis. My dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister, everywhere says, "Well, we're on the side of the nation." For God's sake, please, I'm asking: Is being on the side of the nation going after the nation's $2 billion dam, Mehmet Genghis? That's the law so we don't take the $1.5 million from him? [[Applause from CHP rows]] You know, you've passed a law on this before, we've been to the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court has cancelled. And now, knowingly, you bring in this law in the same way. How is that in the interest of the nation, my dear friends, to protect the nation? Now, look, you're making sure that it stays in the pockets of the community instead of taking people's money, you're saying that it's for the people. My dear friends, look, you've built a great empire of lies, and you're going to fall under it. I want you to know that one day they'll be questioned, but no power will last forever. The 67th article brought in by the Social Insurance Agency is being crushed under 300,000 cases, to eliminate this 300,000 cases, to buy some time, to sue against each Social Insurance Agency, and now to wait two months, and if he answers, he will sue, and if he doesn't, he will be rejected and re-opened. It's not the law of the law. In addition to the fact that the S.S.K. agency, which is now serving as a secondary case, is also entitled to appeal in this case. These people will feel these difficulties, and they will surely pay for it, my dear friends. There's a lot to say, but you insist and insist on not implementing the Constitutional Court's decisions, the Court's decisions. This is a very dangerous way to go, I'm warning you from here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0147par0112	Thank you, Mr. Acar. I submit the three motions of the same nature to your votes: those who agree...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0148par0114	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0147par0115	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0149par0118	Sir, there's not enough decision-making. You said.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0147par0119	It doesn't seem to be here, but I'll give it a minute, and the friends object.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0149par0120	However, Mr. President, there is not enough decision. You said.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0147par0121	They objected. The clerk said there are members who object. They said there are. We're voting, sir. It's started. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. Motion denied. Congressmans, please don't interfere so much with the Court because we see you here and you come running in from the outside, and I beg you very much. We're just looking at the number of decisions for what's going on here. It's not available at the time, but you come running in a minute. We'll all be more comfortable if you're here during the vote. I submit the 67th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 67th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 68: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of Article 68 of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the form of a subtitle in the second verse of Article 68. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Ibrahim Binici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Koniye MP Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyetci Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Oktay Vural; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and Milliyetian Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Mehmet Şandir; Tekirdağ MP Bkent Belen, Manisa MP Erkan Akçayı, Mehmet Şandir; İstanbul MP Atila Kaya and Milliyetı Movement Party MP Oktay Ökalal; Heromarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu and Milliqi Party's Party's Party; Tekirdağt Belen, Manisa MP Erkan Akçaycı, Mehmet Şandir, Mehmet Şanı, Mehmet Şandir, Mehmet Şedir's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Ministers, Mehmet Kökıtı, İstanbul MP Akı MP Ak and Milliye's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of İzmir MP Oktay Öktay Öçı; Şeçıçı; Mehmet Şeçı; Şeçıçıçı Akçıçıçıçı; Şeçıçıçıçıçıçıçı; Mustafa Akçılı MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim Iklüş Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Erdogan 1st article (c) of Article 10 of the Law on the Offices of Public Order and Security Office No. 5952, dated 68-17/2/2010, has been changed as follows. "c) Undersecretary of the Undersecretary: The Undersecretary of the Undersecretary of the Undersecretary, who has been active in the fight against terrorism for at least ten years, or has had at least five academic careers in the fight against terrorism, can be employed with the highest number of Undersecretary's positions, with the title of ten Undersecretary of the Ministry, as well as special information and expertise in the fight against terrorism. The employee's contract and basics are determined by the Undersecretary's office, and this law shall be paid the Undersecretary's proposal and a monthly gross contract with the Minister's approval to remain between the base and ceiling fees set on table (2). In addition, bonuses and incentive bonuses can be paid under the procedures and foundations set for those employed as under the Undersecretary. Running this status does not constitute a right to work at any position, staff or status in public institutions and institutions at the end of the contract." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetcı Movement Party Group MP Izklı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's bill of MP İzzet Çuken; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz; İstanbul MP İzklı and Millek's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP İzkkkı MP İncüçı's Party of the Parliament; Ankara MP İncı's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey; Ankara's Democratic Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey; Ankara MP İzket İztay Çıt Çıçıçı; İstanbul MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İs Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP İs Party of Turkey's Party; Ankara's Party of Turkey's Party of the Parliament; Ankara MP (TK) and İstanbul MP (TK) and İstanbul MP (TK); İstanbul MP of the Parliament (TK) and İstanbul MP of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party of Parliament; Ankara's Party of parliament's Party's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party of parliament's ( We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Serindağ Free Special Haydar Akar Hasan Ören Musa Pine Mehmet Ali Sesam Bkent Kuşoğlu Ali Haydar Öner Does the commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0150par0151	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0147par0152	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0151par0153	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0147par0154	Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0156	Mr. President, we're discussing the proposed or expected bill known as the Soma Law. But I counted, the number of items related to Soma is less than 20, and the number of items not related to Soma is more than 120. So in another assessment, less than one-sevenths of the substances are related to Soma. More than 6/7 are related to other issues. Whatever the need is, if there is an approach to making the ban lawful in any way, it's installed in this law, as it is with privatisations, as with illegal civil servants, there are attempts to build and run. In Article 68, there is an arrangement regarding the Agency and its duties of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 5952. What's that got to do with Soma law? Why do these substances and such items want to be introduced into Soma law? This is the way it is done, and the opposition delays the rights of the Soms. The opposition is slandered. It's a disgrace. We want this non-law-related substance removed from the text of matter. However, there are much more important issues on the agenda. One of them is that a man with a Jewish Cross of Courage is wearing a Palestinian scarf around his neck. The Jewish Courage Award in one hand...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0153par0159	Can't you not talk about the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0160	Why are you offended, why are you offended, Mr. Special, why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0153par0161	Why do you keep talking? Why do you care about the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0162	Get out, answer me.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0153par0163	None of your business, Prime Minister or Prime Minister!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0164	Tell your Prime Minister to return the prize of bravery.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0153par0165	What, he's gonna ask you?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0166	I am the deputy of the Republic of Turkey. I'm protecting the Palestinians, the Gazans.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0153par0168	Who are you, are we going to ask you, who the hell are you?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0169	You don't know what you're doing. You're a mess and a mess! You and your kind are in the same position.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0153par0170	No way!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0171	Come, answer me!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0154par0172	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0173	Are you the one who says, "Get out of here"? Come and answer me. You don't know what you're doing. Many of you are acting against the interests of the Republic of Turkey; there are exceptions, I know them.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0155par0175	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0176	You, like ISIS, al-Qaeda, supported organizations like El Nusra, while Israel was dropping bombs on Palestinians, Gazans. One more question: Why does ISIS not fight Israel, but in the blood of Muslims who don't think like themselves, slaughter, shoot? Think about it, think about it with compassion, think about it with a conscience.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0156par0178	Speak to Israel, and speak to Israel!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0179	If there's compassion and conscience... You, Ramadan Can, you only know how to call for roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0156par0181	Tell Israel, Israel, and tell Israel, if he bores you!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0182	You are unaware of national interests, the sufferings of Gazans, Turks, Muslims who are not from a certain sect. Otherwise, you wouldn't be acting like this.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0156par0183	Tell Israel, come on, tell Israel!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0184	And you sent Marmara the Blue over Israel the Cruel. What lawmakers rode the Blue Marmara, and why did they get off? I thought the Prime Minister was going to escort the warships. The cruel Israel, the slaughtering rulers of Israel, say, "Don't come." You deliberately threw them into the fire. And now, sir, you're showing your heroics against Israel.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0157par0185	Who got in, who got out? Prove it. Can you prove it? Come on, prove it! That doesn't prove...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0152par0186	When you arrived in 2002, Israel, with 1.5 billion dollars, was three times the volume of commerce. Do you calculate that? You can't get away with it. The Prophet says, "Do not weaken, make it easy." Don't make it difficult to give away the rights of the Somals, make it easy. Why is the House being run until August 14th? The opposition is employed to be blocked in Ankara because Recep Tayyip Erdogan has governors under his command, there are trustees, there are undersecretaries, there are security forces; he doesn't need recognition, but the opposition is blocked. You're not gonna get any good out of this. Respect for those who deserve it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0158par0191	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0159par0193	Same thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0158par0194	I'm so sorry... No, no, that's not the same thing, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0160par0195	Then we demand a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0158par0196	I've taken a vote, we're voting on the motion. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Deputy Koniye MP Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyetçi Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Oktay Vural; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and Milliyet Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Mesvekilı Mehmet Şandır; Tekirdağ MP Bkent Belen and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, Mehmet Şandir; İstanbul MP Atila Kaya and Millitian Movement Party MP Oktay Ökalal; Şakık MP Mesaki MP Mehmet Şandir's Party; Tekirdağt Belen and Manisa MP Erkan Akçey; İstanbul MP Aktay Köçı's Party, Minister's Minister's Minister's Party, Minister's Democratic Party's Party's Council of Parliament, Minister of State of Parliament and Minister of Parliament of State; Şekeşeşı Akçı Akçı's Party's Party's Party; Mehmet Şeşı, Minister of Parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament and Minister of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament, Minister of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament, İstanbul's Party's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament's Minister of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament, Minister of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Ministers of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Ministers of Ministers of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament and Minister of Ministers of Parliament of State of State of Parliament of State of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Ministers of Ministers of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament, Minister of Minister of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of State of State of Parliament of Parliament and Parliament, Minister of Parliament of Parliament and Parliament, Minister of Parliament, Minister of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament, Minister of Parliament of Parliament and the Council of State of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of State of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of State of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament ( Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends 1st article (c) of Article 10 of the Law on the Offices of Public Order and Security Office No. 5952, dated 68-17/2/2010, has been changed as follows. "c) Undersecretary of the Undersecretary: The Undersecretary of the Undersecretary of the Undersecretary, who has been active in the fight against terrorism for at least ten years, or has had at least five academic careers in the fight against terrorism, can be employed with the highest number of Undersecretary's positions, with the title of ten Undersecretary of the Ministry, as well as special information and expertise in the fight against terrorism. The employee's contract and basics are determined by the Undersecretary's office, and this law shall be paid the Undersecretary's proposal and a monthly gross contract with the Minister's approval to remain between the base and ceiling fees set on table (2). In addition, bonuses and incentive bonuses can be paid under the procedures and foundations set for those employed as under the Undersecretary. Running this status does not constitute a right to work at any position, staff or status in public institutions and institutions at the end of the contract." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0161par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0158par0206	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0162par0207	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0158par0208	Muğla MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0163par0211	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the motion that we have submitted in Article 68 of Law Bill 639. I hereby salute your high council. Starting with my words, I'd like to begin by asking God's mercy for the Muslims who were massacred by Israelis and ISIS terror organizations in Gaza. I curse those responsible for this massacre, and I condemn the collaborators who secretly support their responsible. I would also like to address on this occasion the situation of our Turkishmen brothers, who have been hungry and thirsty for days at about 50 degrees [50 degrees] on the border of the Kurdish Regional Government in Iraq. Dear lawmakers, when you look at pages 589 and 590, this law is shown to contain 48 different laws that are not included in the proposals combined with the original draft law. All commissions of these 48 different laws have been eliminated and, in any case, the Plan and Budget Commission has solved everything. For some reason, other commissions were not needed, the opinion of other highly valued members of other commissions. Thus, other than the Plan and Budget Commission in Parliament, commissions and members of those commissions were unaware of the changes made to the interests of their own commissions. The AKP has now become a habit of making it a procedure for the bag technique, which should be an exception. This undermines the reputation of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, neutralizing other commissions. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must get rid of this bag of law freaks as soon as possible. Now, for once, just before we started discussing this bill, we discussed a law on the so-called resolution process in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it included regulations for the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. During the negotiations of that law, of course, we could have discussed this change, and we could have evaluated that law from a more holistic perspective in the negotiations of that bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are other things that are not understood here. First of all, with this change, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security will be given additional staff. Now, if I ask the members of the AKP order how's the solution progressing? If the solution process is going well, if the terror's over, if the mothers aren't crying, and then the terror is over, why are you raising the position of Undersecretary of Public Order and Security? Why do you need such a thing? Dear lawmakers, this change is actually an indication of what position the AKP has placed the country in. The world's cruelest terrorist organizations are now our new border neighbors. And the borders that are not under the control of the terrorist organization are now under the control of their terrorist surrogates. The AKP can't even call ISIS a terrorist organization that runs around with us, making our Turkmen brothers vomit blood. The borders of the country have been turned, the terrorists have roamed our land, they've become free-floating. Above all, these bloodied organizations and members have been encouraged to engage in even more daring actions. Well, given all that, it's pretty clear that things aren't going so well. Besides, who will be assigned to these positions? There are no criteria for who will be appointed here, even though it has previously been considered the qualifications of those assigned to the norm staff in this Undersecretary. Sure, I'd like to ask you a few more questions from here. Are these staffs opened to give new staffs to some of the people you've discussed, some of your dirty games as part of the so-called solution process, or are the product of the betrayal project opened for new accomplices you're going to find yourself in this so-called solution process? You have new agendas, promises to someone that we and the public don't know about? The Prime Minister tells the families of the deceased yesterday at a dinner given by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy: "We didn't shake hands with the baby killer." Okay, so I'm asking: Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the presidential candidate, didn't Hakan Fidan go on your behalf and make those calls in Oslo? Is Hakan Fidan your representative or your glove? Give us the answer to that, folks. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0164par0222	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0165par0223	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit05spe0164par0224	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit06spe0164par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of Mehmet Erdogan and his friends' motion. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of Article 68 of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the form of a subtitle in the second verse of Article 68. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit06spe0166par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit06spe0164par0013	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit06spe0167par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit06spe0164par0015	I'm having it read. This motion aims to reduce the number of advisors of the undersecretary. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 68 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0164par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there's a motion for a new substance violation. You know, the proposed bill or proposal is the sentence of the fourth joke of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but requires a change of a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the motions which the commission has attended most of the time. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins in the motion with only 21 people, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if it does not, I will remove the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 68 of the current Law Bill 639 and other substances be identified accordingly. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat İsmail Tamer Recep Special Ali Aydınlıoğlu Ramazan Can Article 14 - 14/7/1965 added the following paragraph to Article 4 (C) of State Officers Act 657 (C). "The employees who have been discharged from the public or private sector employer due to privatisation practices and have no right to transfer to other public institutions or institutions under Law 24/11/1994 can also be employed until they are entitled to a pension of old age or disability as part of this joke. The number of jobs to be employed within this scope is determined by the Council of Ministers on the conditions of study and the costs to pay for them and other issues on the views of the State Office of Staff and the Ministry of Finance." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion with your absolute majority?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0168par0019	Mr. President, our Commission has a pure majority, and the Commission has a majority of 21 of us on the table. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0164par0021	Since the commission is mostly in attendance, I'm going to open it up as a new clause. Izmir MP Musa Çam on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0169par0025	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. We're dealing with a new substance violation. This is a new regulation on the working time of personnel distributed to public institutions and institutions as a result of privatisation. It is important to say that Turkey has a number of public institutions and institutions that have won with the republic, there are TEKEL, there are SECA, there are Meat and Fish institutions, there are PTT, there are TDAS, there are dozens and thousands of public institutions and institutions that depend on it. These public institutions and institutions have been subject to privatisation in Turkey as a result of long-standing neoliberal policies. As a result of the privatisation, the people who were exposed were transferred to a number of non-interesting institutions, whose job guarantees were removed, and their wages were dropped. These working colleagues, despite having done the same work at the same workplace, are under very difficult circumstances, as well as their salary and position. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 550 MPs serving here, and each of us has a secretary and a member of the advisory staff. Some of them are 657, some are 4/A, some are 4/B, some are 4/C, others are subcontracted, some are employed here. I don't understand why our long-term friends from the Turkish National Assembly work as 4/C/C/C/C/, and why they're employed when they have no guarantees. Our proposal, our proposal, is that all personnel who work 4/C will be put on staff, both 657 or permanent, will be employed at permanent labor status. But unfortunately, with my long-standing proposals for law, the Republican People's Party has been rejected every time here, despite the fact that we've been carrying them to Parliament, with law proposals and various times. What we say as a solution is that the 4/C (C) people's working hours are increased from one year to three years, not that the contract is signed every three years, but that they are put on permanent staff in public institutions and corporations. Because among our friends who do the same job in the same workplace, the status differences aren't right, there are huge differences in their wages, there are huge differences in their social rights, there are huge differences in their social rights. Thus, all of our friends from 4/C will have to be government personnel, transferred to 657, as well as staffed workers. Guys, so far, the total number is 23,000. What's wrong with the 23,000, 4/C? What's wrong with our friends, brothers, secretaries, counselors, who work in offices over there, being staffed by decommissioning their 4/C? There's no obstacle, guys. With your vote here, we have a chance to put all of our friends on staff. With the motion brought in, the terms of the contract of our temporary 4/CHL friends had been issued three years earlier; it is now being lifted for three years, and the right to work until retirement is granted. Apparently, when we look at it, it's like a good thing. Is that a good thing? It's not bad, but it's not exactly a good thing, it's an event between the two. That's not true, guys, that's not the right arrangement. This arrangement needs to be withdrawn and all of our friends from 4/C will be staffed and the real worker is the real staff. Thus, it is not a righteous work, it is incomplete, it is wrong. This must be withdrawn and all 23,000 of our friends from 4/C will be recruited, friends. As the Republican People's Party, we don't see it as enough, we find it incomplete, we find it wrong, and we think it's realistic that 23,000 of our fellow workers from 4/C are the original staff of the organization or the institution they've been found because otherwise, our fellow workers who do the same work will face different fees, different social rights, and this may happen again in another spring, before another election. We don't find it right, and we will continue to show that in the coming period as the Republican People's Party -- even if you have a majority of your fingers in this way, even if you do -- in the future, we will continue to show here as the Republican People's Party parliamentarians all the efforts and efforts that our fellow workers, working workers, and working brothers and workers -- will be taken into permanent positions. So this is an opportunity. As the law on Soma is discussed, it is not the right solution to solve the problem by giving our 4/C) friends a finger of honey as we bring certain arrangements to our brothers who work in Soma. The correct solution, I say, is that 23,000 workers and workers at 4/C will be recruited into permanent staff and treated as friends who do the real work, and that the state will be provided with the resources and resources provided for its other employees, and I salute all of you. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0170par0034	Thank you, Mr. Pine. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Isparta MP S. Nevzat won't be afraid. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0171par0038	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Again, we face a last-minute motion from the Justice and Development Party. I don't really find these last-minute proposals to be very charming as a method, and because it's generally unprepared in context, lacks of priority can cause much bigger problems to the future. When we look at the content of this motion, we see that there are some flaws. It's just taking in the 4/C people under the Privatisation Act, not the whole population. So, our friend just told us, a proposal that includes a very limited number of 4/CL people, trying to improve their situation. We have made a promise to speak and to take your attention to this matter. You know, when you look at the pension-determining regime, the last seven years are important. Now, in the privatised institutions, let's also say that many 4/C (C) people who have already retired to the age of retirement to avoid lowering their pensions are already retired, so they can't benefit from those rights. We, the National Movement Party, recommend that the 4/C (C) people be taken into the permanent staff without being separated, definitely in the same office, with other public officials working in the same office. We've already stated that in our election statement. If that doesn't happen, there could be serious differences between two civil servants working in the same place, doing the same job, as you all know, both in terms of their rights and in terms of real wages. So, in conclusion, I would like to point out that we support this motion as the National Movement Party, which, even though it's not a very limited number of people in derde, can improve the situation of some 4/C, which eliminates paperwork, but not to give up our claim about the 4/C (c) people, and that we will follow it, and therefore, especially to the regular staffs, we will support it, even if it comes to a motion from the ruling party. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0172par0045	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0173par0048	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Surely we can view this delayed arrangement as positive. So far, many employees have been victimised by the privatisation and flexible employment policies of the EC PARTY. Therefore, the workers in this position are also entitled to compensation. In addition to this arrangement, it is important to add this compensation for the workers, but we have not yet seen this approach by the EC PARTY. As the arrangement is positive, it brings solutions that we can call palliative to the problems of working life. We also believe that the EC PARTY should avoid privatisation and flexible business relations that victimise the worker. We want all 4/C people to be put on permanent staff. It's a partial and incomplete arrangement, although it doesn't cover all 4/C workers, but we support this new arrangement. My respects to all of you again.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0174par0052	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0175par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, I'd like to thank all the political party groups. For many years, our dear friends have been interested in a number of workers in Turkey. They said, "We will only talk about this law clause so that we can express our participation here. We will express our views." I'd like to thank them first. One, this motion was made in the context of yesterday's meeting with our Minister's political party groups, which we were going to do in this frame, in order for them to agree. We currently have around 23,000 workers in the pool, which is under the state staff presidency, due to the privatisation of the 4/C. In the previous period, they were given ten months, 11 months of contracts, then a month's free leave, and after that jobs were renewed. With an arrangement in 2008 or 2009, their contract period was extended to 11 months and 27 days, and each day their contracts began to be renewed, and the free permit part was eliminated. At the same time, our fellow workers from around 23,000 who are now in the pool of government personnel, who are now in the pool of state personnel, due to privatisation from other places, are now present as a matter of continuing business transactions unless they make any mistakes within the framework of the Employment Act or under Law 657 until they retire. Today is a blessed day, we're going to the Festival of Ramadan, which is a gift to our brothers from the Great National Assembly of Turkey. I'd like to thank all the political party groups, our friends, who have given their support.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0176par0058	The best gift is the cast, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0177par0059	It's a holiday gift.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0175par0060	I congratulate everyone on the blessed Day of Ramadan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0178par0062	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. No promises, no questions, no answers. I submit to your votes on the new clause: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So there's a new substance incursion. The substances will be identified accordingly. Now we move on to Article 69. There are three motions on Article 69: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in the second article of Article 69 of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal be changed into "removedation from state office" by the statement "interruption or halting phase progress." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Article 57 of the Law of State Officers No. 657, dated 69 - 14/7/1965, has been changed as follows. "Those who have received a disciplinary action outside of a notice and a reprimand during the term of the appointment will be cut off from their disciplinary supervisor's proposal and the approval of the supervisor in charge of appointing them. Those who have been cut off are immediately notified by the relevant institutions to the President of State Staff." "In or at the end of the deadline, the 56th and those who have been suspended according to these provisions (except for health reasons) will not be elected to the state office for two years." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetcı Movement Party Group MP Izklı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's bill of MP İzzet Çuken; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz; İstanbul MP İzklı and Millek's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP İzkkkı MP İncüçı's Party of the Parliament; Ankara MP İncı's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey; Ankara's Democratic Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey; Ankara MP İzket İztay Çıt Çıçıçı; İstanbul MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İs Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP İs Party of Turkey's Party; Ankara's Party of Turkey's Party of the Parliament; Ankara MP (TK) and İstanbul MP (TK) and İstanbul MP (TK); İstanbul MP of the Parliament (TK) and İstanbul MP of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party of Parliament; Ankara's Party of parliament's Party's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party of parliament's ( We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Müslim Sarı Ali Sarıbaş Ahmet İhsan Kalkavan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0179par0091	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0178par0092	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0180par0093	We disagree, Mayor. Mr. Ozcan, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0181par0096	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I would like to point out a wound that has become a very serious wound in Turkey, which is growing and growing every day. Congressmans, you know, we talk every day. Some three years ago, events broke out in Syria. Of course, thanks to your government's superior prediction and its contributions, these events in Syria have grown to be a civil war, and as a result, nearly 1.5 million, some say, 2 million Syrians, we don't even know the number, so that's not going to happen - Turkey has settled. Now, of course, I look at the condition of the people who fled Syria, and I consider it humanly. I'm saying that these people escaped death, they took refuge in us, and I think it was natural and necessary for us to accept them. But after that, there was trouble, lawmakers. Now, we don't know the situation of the Syrians who come here, how they're defined in international law, it's unclear whether they're refugees or refugees. They came to Turkey, waving their arms, and went with what they wanted and settled in. Right now, as the government running the state, you don't even know how many Syrian citizens are in what province. We've asked questions over and over, and none of them have been answered. We thought he was hiding from us until today, but we realized that neither does the government. The Syrian border has already returned to its crossing inn, and anyone who shakes hands enters Turkey and settles in whatever city he wants. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have once again understood the reality of the situation last week. For a few hours, I went to Bolu. I took a short walk down the road there, and everyone I talked to that day said the same thing. Our Syrian citizens are now having serious problems in their relations with the local public. It's natural, lawmakers, they come from a different culture, they have different traditions, customs, customs, and it's only natural for them to have trouble with the local people in a city, in a geography where they're completely strangers. Like, what kind of trouble are they having? Now, a large number of these friends, these citizens, these Syrian citizens, have plenty of time to go around in groups because they don't have jobs, and they're usually just groups of men, and that's why there's a reluctant prejudice in society, and the friction starts. So you saw the events of Marash, and you saw the events of Antwerp, and you saw the events of Hatay. Look, I'm warning you from here. These events are about to jump all over Anatolia, and at the end of these events, the citizens of the Republic of Turkey will be harmed as well as the Syrian citizens who have fled Syria and taken refuge with us. You're not taking the necessary precautions on this matter as a government. Look, after Syrian citizens came to Turkey and settled in Turkey, there has been an increase in public relations in Turkey, and the thefts have unfortunately increased. In addition, prostitution has greatly increased. I suppose I don't have to tell you anything about begging, because everyone who went to Rediay has seen something like this.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0182par0100	It's shameful, it's immoral, it's immoral, it can't happen!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0181par0101	Now, I'm gonna say something, we need to talk about this, this is becoming a social injury. I've identified the human condition of those people, but the Republic of Turkey will also take care of its citizens.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0183par0103	Shame on you! You're always talking about prostitution.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0184par0104	What? What a shame! He says, "Ayah." He says! He's just saying it. It's a precaution.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0181par0105	That's not true! We've become like the tent state... in the days of the government of your grace. Is that even possible? Then let's open all the border crossings and settle down. I'm talking about something important. Tomorrow there will be bloodshed in Turkey, and we will all be sorry. Take precautions on that. Don't let him settle where he pleases. At least if these people are refugees, let's keep them in certain areas. Otherwise, it's going to be a lot of trouble, and it's going to be a lot of bad things. I want to do a warning mission here. I understand those people, but I share with you the distress of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, who have expressed their discomfort over the inconvenience of those people. Look, before it's too late, the government must take immediate precautions. Now he must take the necessary security measures at that border. That's no state!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0185par0108	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0186par0109	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit07spe0185par0110	I'll look into it, sir. I'll call the number. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0185par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of Bolu MP Tanju Özcan and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Article 57 of the Law of State Officers No. 657, dated 69-14/7/1965, has been changed as follows. "Those who have received a disciplinary action outside of a notice and a reprimand during the term of the appointment will be cut off from their disciplinary supervisor's proposal and the approval of the supervisor in charge of appointing them. Those who have been cut off will immediately be notified by the relevant institutions to the President of State Staff." "In or at the end of the term of the day, the 56th and those who have been suspended according to these provisions (except for their health reasons) will not be taken into the state office for two years." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0187par0016	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0185par0017	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0188par0018	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0185par0019	Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, come in, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0189par0022	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 69th Amendment. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to first express that Mr. Elitaş said thank you, as opposition to the government, during his speech on the arrangement for these 4/C Levels. Now, I'd like to point out that in his previous speeches, though Mr. Elitaş isn't here, but... let's be clear: as the National Movement Party, we call the cat a cat, we call the cat a cat, it's curved, it's true. Now that we have seen a positive arrangement in the 69th article, we say it is positive. All of our fellow speakers often prefer to consider the positive aspects of the positive arrangements and the negative aspects of them together. But for example, we will never be able to find the 100th article positive, and we will make the strongest opposition to it. In Article 68, we have also expressed our reservations and our opposition in the matter discussed before this because in Article 68, and in some other articles, the power is assigning staffs for its own pleasure. So, public safety, order, etcetera, the counseling staff, and with that arrangement, it's possible to make a terrorist a consultant in the name of the fight against terrorism. There's no way we can say yes to that. So, we call the terrorist a terrorist. What did they say last time? The last one they said was a smuggler. We don't call a thief a philanthropist. We call a thief a thief, a philanthropist a philanthropist. We benefit from the fact that it is known. Dear friends, those who received disciplinary action during the period of their nomination in the 69th Article were cut off from the approval of the chief in charge of the appointment, at the request of their disciplinary supervisors. Of course, when it comes to disciplinary action, which ones are they? There are five fines in which the notice, reprimands, phase progress is halted, monthly cuts and removal from office, and those who were cut off within the candidacy circuit could not be appointed to the state office for three years. The Constitutional Court has a mistrial on this issue. The 69th article regulates the annulment of this Constitutional Court, and, again, the Constitutional Court has annulled this clause, explaining that it does not apply to principles such as the principle of practicality, the principle of obligation and proportionality, in the absence of an officer during the period of the nomination due to a very light disciplinary sentence, such as warning, reprimanding. Article 69 is also preventing the suspension of civil service of officers who have been sentenced to notice and reprimand during their candidacy period. Now, dear friends, of course, these arrangements are being made, but the demands of public employees or people with expectations in society are unfortunately not met. Now, we've just made an arrangement for the 4/C people, but it's a non-profit arrangement, an arrangement that doesn't meet the expectations of the 4/C (C) people. The 4/C are expected to be appointed. Such demands should have been met by around 23,000 4/C. And by seasonal workers with a number of such numbers. You know, one of the flaws we saw in this bag bill was the officer, petty officer, and senior officer who was discharged from the army by the decisions of the age. These have been restored to their duties by various dates, but no evaluation and regulation has been made regarding the dissolution of the same officials due to disciplinary sentences or disciplinary provisions of those with the same title. And that is a failure. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0190par0031	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in the second article of Article 69 of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal be changed into "removedation from state office" by the statement "interruption or halting phase progress." Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0191par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0190par0039	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0192par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0190par0041	Mr. Dora, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0193par0042	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 69 of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Section 639. I salute the General Assembly. Under Article 69 of the bill, Article 57 of State Officers' Act 657, those who have been sentenced to monthly cuts or phase progress are cut off by the recommendation of disciplinary officers and the approval of the supervisor to appoint them. Those who have been cut off are immediately notified by the relevant institutions to the President of State Staff." A change in shape is foreseen. Dear lawmakers, Article 57 of State Officers Act 657 continues to be used by the administration as a means of total pressure on candidate officers. When you look at the verbs required by State Officers' Law 657 to cease the month and stop the progress of the post, there are verbs such as disrespecting your superior during the mission, helping to use any place within the area of duty as a meeting, ceremony, and so on, for any political party benefit or harm. Dear lawmakers, it is not legal or conscientious that a citizen, even a candidate, should be stripped of his right to a thousand challenges and hopes. The nomination period, however, is the most inexperienced and most open to mistakes. Therefore, the procedure for officers who have received their dignity must be followed by the same procedure. Honorable lawmakers are the state of law, which is set forth in Article 2 of the Constitution, in accordance with the law, in respect of human rights, in respect of these rights and freedoms, in order to establish a fair legal order in all areas, and to maintain it by developing it, and to refrain from the unconstitutional situation and attitudes of the Constitution and the rule of law, which considers itself bound by the rules of law and the rule of law, open to judicial control. The lawmaker can draft rules that include disciplinary regulations for public officials who offer services in order to ensure that public services are conducted in harmony and order in the legal state and can adopt various disciplinary procedures to ensure that these rules are followed. However, a fair balance between disciplinary actions and sanctions is also a requirement of the rule of law. The fair balance between action and sanction is also called "the principle of measurement," and the subprimes of this principle are the principles of availability, necessity and proportionality. According to this, it is clear that it is incompatible with the rule of the state of law that the individual's stay in public service should be subjected to a dissolution without a fair and reasonable balance, without the weight of disciplinary action. Mr. President, there are already fines in State Officers Act 657 to be warned, reprimanded, cut from the month, halting the progress of the state office. The Law clearly states how to deal with such punishments. However, the EC PARTI government is acting regardless of the grounds for the Constitutional Court's annulment in order to suppress the candidates and block the transfer of the candidates they do not want through their superiors. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that this clause will increase the ongoing concerns of state officials and that many will be unjustly unemployed. Clearly, this arrangement will open the way for the dissolution of many families for economic reasons, resulting in many new social, psychological, and economic traumas. As I end this talk -- because our time is up in life today -- I congratulate all our citizens and the Muslim world on Ramadan's Day, and wish it to be an undiscriminate means of peace, freedom, and human love, and I salute you all again with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0194par0053	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 69th article: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 69th article has been accepted. Now, we're going to talk about the article 70 (a) joke. There are two proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu's; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal's; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP İzket Çetin's Party's Minister's Party for Business; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party (HDP) Minister and MP's Party for Human Rights; Ankara MP's Party for Foreign Affairs; İstanbul's Minister's Democratic Party (HDP) and İstanbul MP's Minister's Democratic Party (TK) and İstanbul's Minister's Party for Turkish Affairs; Mehmet Çağalıtı İçı; İstanbul's Party's MP's MP (TK) and İstanbul's Minister's Party for İstanbul (TK) İstanbul (TK) and İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party of Parliament's Party of İstanbul (TK) Çağrı İçıçıçıçıçıçı İçıçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's MP's MP's Party and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party; İstanbul's Party of İstanbul's MP's Party (TK MP's Party of İstanbul's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party of Parliament's Party; Ankara's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's Minister's Party of Parliament's Party; İstanbul's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party; We propose and propose that the clause (a) be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Haydar Akar The Law No. 70-657 A) The section "A" (d) of Article 152 of the "II-Reparations" section "A" (d) has been changed in the following way, and (n) has been added. "d) 200% for the staff members of the law services class. Under the law, the Supreme Counsel and the other 1st. 300% for the legal counsel staff, 23% for the "law counselor," "law manager" and "law manager," "n) To 150 per cent of Turkey's Employment Association for business and occupational advisers," Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 70th amendment of the law be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Faruk Bal Emin Çınar Oktay Vural Ali Öz Adnan Şeyk Ugly The Law No. 70-657 A) Section 152 of Article III-Reparations is added to the "A" section of "Special Service Compensation" below. "n) To 150 per cent of Turkey's Employment Association for business and occupational advisers," The section of "II-Tembrances" of section 152 of Article 152 has been removed (i) from the "Special Service Compensation" section (i) and (i) has been added to the part of "Profession Controllers" (i) to come after the statement, "Taximental Intelligence Experts, IRS Experts, Financial Services Experts, County Employment Experts, Customs and Trade Investigators," "B-Ezminates," which is included in me. "EDUCATION, SCHOOL PRODUCTION" Teachers in the Education and Teaching Services Class are for teachers who are actually teachers in the titles (including teachers' titles) and teachers' staffs who are school principals, vice principals, administrators and educators, and teachers working in prison schools) to 155% of all classes per month," he said. C) Section 152 has been changed in the following way. 1. 335 percent for the Chief Constable 2. One of the members of the First Class Security Directorate: Assistant Director General, Chairman of the Inspection Board, President of the Police Academy, Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir to 300 per cent of the police chiefs The head of the apartment, I. Legal Counsel, Other County Police Commissioners, Police University Director, POMEM Director, PMEM Director, Police College Director and Protection Directors, 225 percent of the time, 265% for the others, 3. For those assigned to the Second Class Security Directorate staff, 4. For those assigned to the Third Class Security Directorate staff, 5. For those assigned to the Fourth Class Security Directorate staff, 220% una, 6. For those assigned to the Chief of Police, Seven. For those assigned to the captain's staff, 185%, 8. For those assigned to the sergeant's staff, 170 percent, Nine. For those assigned to the sergeant's staff, 160 percent of the time, 10. 155% for those assigned to the Senior Chief of Staff, 11. For those assigned to the Chief Constable's staff, 12. From the police officers: 145% per month for monthly areas of 1 and 2 degrees, 140 per cent for monthly areas of 3 and 4 degrees, 135 per cent for monthly areas of 5 and 6 degrees, 130 per cent for monthly areas of 7 and 8 degrees, 125 per cent for 9th monthly areas. 13. 100 percent for the market and the neighborhood watchmen, 14. A) For those of you who are actually serving in the cities of the obligatory service area, B) Special Ops, Security, Traffic and Riot Force units, as well as 25 per cent of those who are actually in charge of police headquarters," The extension of State Officers Act No. 657 (I) has been changed as follows by the section "IV-Education and Teaching Services" (b) of the Numbered Additional Charter. "b) Teacher and other staff 1,3600 D) Ekli (I) is the "Vil. " The "SINIFI" section has been changed in the following way. (VII.) EMERGENCY SINFILE OF EMPLOYMENTS" A) Police Director 17,000 B) Deputy Chief of Police, President of the Inspection Board, President of the Police Academy, 16,000 Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir County Police Directors C) Apartment Presidents, I. Attorney General, 1 5,000. Other First Class Police Directors, d) Their staff is included in this class, but second, 14,000 2 3600 with the Third and Fourth Class Police Commissioner Those who have won the title of Chief of Police 3 3000 e) Captain, Lieutenant, Sergeant, Senior Chief of Staff, Chief of Police and Police. aa) Higher Education 1,3600 f) Ekki (II) "In the Prime Minister's and Ministry's..." Ministerial Directors of the Ministry of State and other Ministry of State in Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir provinces, "Securities of the Central Organization," as well as "Secretary Directors of the Central Organization," following the declaration. The head of the Social Security Foundation Construction and Realty Office, the head of the Social Security Foundation Training, Research and Development Centre, the "Social Security District Manager (Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir), and the "United and Concerned Organizations Directors of the Central Agency" and the "Securities of the Social Security Agency" following the declaration. The department of Judiciary Institutions, Connected and Concerned Institutions and Higher Education Institutions, added "The Vice President of the Social Security Institution Education, Research and Development Centre," following the declaration. The 7th ranking of "IV is added to "the Prime Ministership, Ministry, Undersecretary of Staff, Chairman of the Office of the Institution and the Office of the Central Office of the Compulsive General Directors," following the declaration "and the branch manager," as follows. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0195par0148	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0194par0149	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0196par0150	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0194par0151	Hatay MP Chiefk Ugly, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0197par0153	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Congressmans, I'd like to address some issues that have been keeping Turkey's agenda for two days, disturbing us about the detention of some members of the police force, disturbing the nation. At the time of dawn, in the police force, there was an operation against some of the members of the police to come when they were called on the phone, which was unlikely to escape. When it comes to the possibility of escape, suspicion, or suspicion of harm, the handcuffs will be attached to these members of the police. Now, we remember a scene like this, so when it comes to the late-night raids, that's what happened to a lot of our soldiers, our decorated soldiers, in the middle of the night, but as far as we can remember, they weren't handcuffed. Now, in the terms of that day, I'm the prosecutor of this case, which makes us suspicious at the point that he's either the patron or the patron of that operation. When we look at the prime minister, we see some evaluations again in terms of expanding this last operation. I mean, that means it's an operation with the Prime Minister's knowledge. Congressmans, of course, those who are guilty, who are suspected of committing crimes, whatever institution they belong to, they're done, but there's a setting. I mean, we're re-watching the families of the people we saw in the Sledgehammer operation yesterday, the ones we lived with, the police wives, the police mothers in a different way today. Turkey must get rid of it now. And we're wondering, if it weren't for the corruption operations that took place on December 17, 25th, would that have happened? The situation has become such that I have a document, a police officer being complained by a citizen. The citizen's complaint -- it's happening in any province of Anadolu -- is that police have spoken against our Prime Minister. Witnesses of the subject say that we have not heard such a thing. The citizen states that four months after the incident, March 30 was the day of the election, months after the incident, he makes this complaint, months after the incident, he comes to his mind. Suddenly, according to the document in front of him, the governor of our state, a deputy governor, a deputy chief of police, of course the attorney's office's signature, a case that prosecutors are immediately interested in, and this police officer is suspended. It's possible that in the coming days, by law, he'll be reinstated. This is a witch hunt, this country won't go anywhere with it. If we don't make peace with the institutions, with the nation, if -- if it's true -- if we don't take the criminals out of the headlines every day to tie them to that institution, the institutions will be tainted, the institutions can't function, the police can't function with false reports, there won't be peace in this country. In this regard, I would like to point out to the government that yesterday you gave us a sledgehammer, a sledgehammer, and this, and what you experienced with it, today you are living with the police and the police. You're interested in these trials, Mr. Prime Minister's statements indicate that he's been captured here. These are not the right things; they remove the country's nails, and then someone takes advantage of it, and they put dynamite at the root of the Republic of Turkey, taking advantage of that weakness. Of course, that is not our desire, nor is that our desire, but your work serves it. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0198par0163	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet's Party Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's Party; İstanbul MP İzkat Melanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and the Parliament's Party's Minister's Party of Parliament; İstanbul's Party of Parliament and İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Köçeşeşı; İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çağeşeşeşeşal; İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul Çakıtı MP İçıt Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party of Parliament's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çaçııı; İstanbul MP İçı İçı İçıçışı İçıçıçı; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İçııçıçıııışıçı MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's MP'sı We propose and propose that the clause (a) be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends The Law No. 70-657 A) The section "A" (d) of Article 152 of the "II-Reparations" section "A" (d) has been changed in the following way, and (n) has been added. "d) 200% for the staff members of the Law Services Class. Under the law, the Supreme Counsel and the other 1st. 300 per cent for the legal counsel staff, 23% for the legal counsel, 230 per cent for the staff of "The Attorney General," "The Judgement Manager" and "The Director of Lawworks," "n) To 150 per cent of Turkey's Employment Association for business and occupational advisers," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0199par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0198par0175	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0200par0176	We disagree, my dear President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0198par0177	Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ... Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0201par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. Article 152 of Law 657 organises increases and compensations. In addition to the bill, we actually want some other public officials to benefit more from these increases. In fact, we particularly hope that all public officials' financial situation, their financial status, their rights to self - control, and all of them will be improved. Now this bill, you know, came to the Commission in the form of a 60-point bill, but it went up to 150. What I'm trying to say is, let's not let our citizens think that the opposition parties are blocking it. It's not like that. You added other substances to some useful substances, knowing that it was not possible for us to accept them, and so the process continued. What have you got? You've brought in materials to eliminate the freedom of rights of some public officials, and other such articles have been brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, some of our friends have just mentioned - Mr. Chief, Mr. Tanju Özcan - the issue of Syria. We talk about it all the time, but it really hurts, so we keep saying it, you don't have to react. Look, this has come to this level, you need to take precautions. Unless a precaution is taken, there will be great unrest in the country's cities, especially near the border, if the government does not take the necessary measures. We're warning the government about this, you don't have to be angry, you don't have to be offended, you don't have to interfere. Look, Deutsche Welle wrote a report, not our reports. You know what he says, dear friends? Hundreds of thousands of Syrian people living outside the camp start begging because of unemployment and shelter in metropolitan areas such as Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Gaziantep and Şanlıurfa. There are also other cities, which are written missing. ▪ Many try to live in bus stops, parks, and abandoned buildings. Those who have the chance to get a job are employed for less than a year in construction, textile, machine-like sectors without security and half pay. Look, my dear friends, what does a report of MaZLUMDER say? A Syrian Zat describes his experiences or situation: "When I was in Syria, my two daughters were going to college. They've been working here for about two months at the textile shop for 11 or 12 hours. They've never worked in Syria before. Now they're coming home in the evening with swollen feet. One gets $500 a month, the other gets $400; we don't have a chance to negotiate. These guys are miserable, you brought them to the country, and now we can't kick them out. What are we gonna do? Then you need to build a camp for the Syrians living here and there, and you need to move them to those camps. The cities will be free of unrest and we'll provide them with a place where they can live as human beings. You can't solve this problem by screaming in here, sweeping under the carpet. You have to take precautions about this problem, you can't get out of it, dear friends. You know, 16 months ago, 17 months ago, we passed a law. What was the name of that law? Foreign and International Protection Act. Look, we need to assess the situation of the Syrians under this law. This was arranged in Article 91. The Council of Ministers on this issue says that the adoption of them, their housing in the country, their leaving the country later, their rights and obligations, their relations with international institutions, and you still have no regulations. Seventeen months, no regulations, my dear friends. We can't solve this problem by leaving them alone, perperizing, of course, by bringing some trouble to our citizens. Look, the house prices are up in Gaziantep, and no one can find a house. Sir, the cheap labor force... because they work, the others can't find work. What's he doing? It's causing some social unrest. I'd like to present this to your attention and the attention of our nation. There's no other way to handle this. You must take precautions and make arrangements for them. I thank you, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0202par0191	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the joke "A" based on 70, which is accepted by those who accept... those who do not accept... the joke "A" (a) is accepted by 70. Now we're going to talk about the Article 70 (b) joke. There are three proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 639 Orders of Law Proposal be changed in the form of ▪250/, with the amendment of Article 70 in Article 152 of State Officers Act 657. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İzzet Aslanoğlu's Party's Democratic Party; Ankara MP's Party's Party of Ministers and MP's Democratic Party; Ankara MP's Party of Ministers and Ankara's Minister's Party of Ministers; Ankara MP's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Ankara MP İzzet Çeçı; Ankara's MP's Party's Party's Party of Turkey; Ankara's Party of Turkey's Democratic Party of Turkey; Ankara's Democratic Party of Turkey's İstanbul (HDP) and Turkey's Party of Turkey's Democratic Party (HDP) İstanbul (TK) and İstanbul MP (TK). We propose and propose that the clause (b) be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The Law No. 70-657 B) Eki (II) Addict Cetve "2. The Head of the Social Security Agency Construction and Real Estate Agency, the Head of the Social Security Agency Education, Research and Development Centre, and "5." The department of Judiciary Institutions, Connected and Concerned Institutions and Higher Education Institutions has been added to the term "Second Vice President of the Social Security Institution Education, Research and Development Centre," following the declaration. (3) CETVELIN EKI II " "The Ministry of Finance Law Counsel," which is part of the section "Personal Affairs and Economic Developments," "The Attorney General" and "The Chief Justice Officer" are in the section of "Preparation and Peace Corps," and "The Minister of Justice" are in the 5th Amendment. "The Attorney General", "The Chief Counsel" and "The Director of Law" as well as "The Minister of Law" and "The Director of Law." In the episode "The Town Hall and its municipalities, I. The legal counsel has been released from the text. Congressmans, I will now have Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and his friends' motion to read the summary of the motion under Article 87 of the Civil Charter, which is past 500 words, but will be added to the entire report. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Further experts for education, Research Planning and Co-ordination Experts, Religious Services Experts, Civil Defence Experts and other experts who have not been counted in this joke (h) following the declaration of "Energy and Natural Resources Experts" (e.g. after the declaration of the I-General Management Services Class (h) bendine (e.g. I), and of course (b) myself (e.g., i.g. Added as part, additional indicators I and II have been changed. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0203par0222	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0202par0223	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0204par0224	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0202par0225	Samsun MP Jamalettin Lightning. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0205par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a promise on the 70th article of bag number 639 which we discussed. But I'm not going to say much about this stuff. I have a special message, first of all, from Samsun, from the irrigation units; perhaps that message came to the ruling lawmakers. They have debts from the past, and they can't pay, and within this bag of legislation, they have demands for it to be structured, so I thought I'd pass it along. The National Movement Party has a motion for this in Article 75, and if it is accepted... it can't be paid not only in Samsun but also in Turkey, so we're already asking for support in the motion we made in Article 75. Members of parliament, as you may recall, on June 12, 2007, a lawsuit began with the capture of 27 grenades on the roof of a slum in Umraniye, Istanbul. In operations that continued as 12 waves, 275 defendants have been arrested and carried out in various phases. Then came the trial of hammers, moonlight, yellow girl, coup plots and so on. These alleged cases were planned to overthrow the state of the Republic of Turkey, and planned to overthrow the government, are being questioned by the dictators, saying that the period of military custody is now over. We were all excited when the Prime Minister said, "I am the prosecutor of these cases." However, the evidence and the process of the court in these cases, which increasingly led to the institutional identity of the Turkish Armed Forces, has led us all to suspect these cases. Mr. Prime Minister 17, in the opposite manner as he said earlier after the December 25th corruption and bribery operation, he described a parallel structure, saying that these cases were an artificial case, that the Turkish Armed Forces were wronged, that these operations were built by this parallel structure, that there was a conspiracy against the national army through a chief consultation. This time in the post-17th, 25th December operations, he accused the government of attempting to coup the parallel structure, which he had declared to be an organization and a gang. Following that, the Prime Minister, who pursued the parallel structure of 17th, 25 December operations, has been using all kinds of public power unfairly and unlawfully, lying in parallel structures in the way of these operations and taking up parallel structures. First, in order to create a crime, the court had the police in Adana investigating a truck search, but the court found nothing illegal and released it. As a result, candidate Erdogan blamed the court. The second fictional operation has been investigated for 11 police investigations into the prime minister's office after two years, but the court has not found any criminal elements here. The Prime Minister, who was furious with all of this, was instructed this time to operate on 76 police chiefs and retired police officers in 22 districts. He puts himself in the position of a prosecutor, a judge, saying that these will follow. Candidate Erdogan has already identified and made his decision today. This time, he continued to play the victim, as he did at the beginning, saying that this parallel structure against the government was preparing for a coup. Candidate Erdogan is now a victim of what he said first. Then the courts are working, and there is no way for us to interfere with the courts. Candidate Erdogan has interfered with all these investigations and massacred the law in our country. The Prime Minister's attitude, unfortunately, has left our country unreputed. Our country is practically isolated outside the country. Dear MPs once sat cross-legged in the White House with Mr. Obama. I am the co-chair of BOP. The Middle East is asked of us. The Co-Chair Erdogan, who said, "Let alone have a say in the Middle East, can't go to Gaza, where he's wanted to go for more than a year, because he can't get permission from the United States. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In Gaza, Israel and candidate Erdogan have been studying only outside the squares, operating on perception. The U.S. is conducting truce talks through Egypt, and Obama is not even responding to Mr. Erdogan's calls by transferring them to Vice President Joe Biden. Dear lawmakers, it is not possible for democracy to come to our country with this mindset, especially not for advanced democracy. For him, I wish to get out of this bad situation as soon as possible, and for that to be the cause of the presidential election, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0206par0239	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İzzet Aslanoğlu's Party's Democratic Party; Ankara MP's Party's Party of Ministers and MP's Democratic Party; Ankara MP's Party of Ministers and Ankara's Minister's Party of Ministers; Ankara MP's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Ankara MP İzzet Çeçı; Ankara's MP's Party's Party's Party of Turkey; Ankara's Party of Turkey's Democratic Party of Turkey; Ankara's Democratic Party of Turkey's İstanbul (HDP) and Turkey's Party of Turkey's Democratic Party (HDP) İstanbul (TK) and İstanbul MP (TK). We propose and propose that the clause (b) be changed in the following way. Flood Köse (Sorum) and friends The Law No. 70-657 B) Eki (II). The head of the Social Security Institution Construction and Realty Agency, the Head of the Social Security Institution, and the Head of the Centre for Education, Research and Development, and the Impression of the Social Security Agency, are to come after its declaration. The Department of Social Security and Social Security has been added to the Ministry of Education, Research and Development, the Vice President of the Social Security Institution, after the declaration. (3) Eki II CETVELIN. The legal counsel of the Ministry of Finance, which is part of the department of the Vice President and the Witnesses, is the following. The Ministry of Justice and the Chief Justice (P.A.) and the State of Justice (P.A.) are in the section of the Ministry of Justice (P.D.) and the State of Justice (P.A.). The Court of Justice, the Chief Public Prosecutor, and the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, are part of the department of the Ministry of Justice and Developments. In the section of the municipality of the city, the municipality and its subsidiaries were the first to take part. The legal counsel has been removed from the text. Does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0207par0249	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0206par0250	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0208par0251	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0206par0252	Corum MP Flood Köse, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0209par0254	Thank you. Mr. President, when we watch the incidents in Muslim geography in our southern region, when we see the blood, the tears, the importance of the Lauzan Peace Accord, which we celebrate today's 91st year. Lozan is the international constitution and deed of the Republic of Turkey. In Lausanne, hundreds of years have been accounted for, not for the last three or four years. Instead of a semi-colonialized Ottoman in Lausanne, the Republic of Turkey fought for an equal and respected position among the world's most advanced countries. In Lausanne, the emphasis on independence and freedom was strong. Again, under the agreement under which the winners of the First World War were signed -- one of the 143 articles of the Lausanne Peace Agreement -- met with Turkey under equal conditions. In that sense, Lausanne is very important. My dear friends, those who despise Lauzan and the republic today and dream of the new Ottomans should know that thanks to Lauzan and the following republic, the son of Rizeli Captain Ahmet Resil is the Prime Minister today and the candidate of President, and the son of Kayseri's tornadoer Ahmet Hamdi is still our President. My dear friends, today in the south of Turkey, in the geography of Muslims, in the Middle East, in North Africa, there are fires, there are tears, there are blood, there are events in Gaza. What is happening in Gaza? Gaza has the bombs of Israel, the bombs of Israel that fell on the young children, and the bombs of Israel that fell on the pregnant women in Gaza. And what did our power do for Gaza, outside of the politics of the eunuch, out of the tricky words? It's a big nothing. He did nothing but flatter our nation in Turkey, and whip their pride. Unfortunately, this is the period of power, when Israel and trade volumes rise most. This is the period of power that lifts the vetoes of Israel to the Atomic Energy Foundation and to the OECD. It's this period of power at the United Nations Atomic Energy Foundation, where Israel's nuclear power, when its nuclear capacity is being discussed, is abstaining, and in that politics its name is being wiped out. My dear friends, my fellow AKP MP, couldn't the delegation have asked you, until you went and said, "What if you had more than 30,000 nuclear weapons, brother? Let's look into it. Wouldn't it be better if you said, "You had a positive vote?" It's a waste of effort, it's a waste of effort, it's a waste of effort, it's a waste of effort, it's a waste of time, it's a waste of time, it's a waste of time. My dear friends, the fire in the south of our country today is the cause of power's twisted, sectarian, separatist look and understanding. The cause of this fire, unfortunately, is the arrogance of power. There are two people responsible for this fire. We all know who you are. One of the people responsible for this fire is Turkish Republic's most vulgar Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who thinks his dreams are real, whose feet are not on the ground, who doesn't know the sensitivities of the Middle East, who doesn't know the soul of the Middle Eastern Republic. The other is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our candidate for the President, who can't tell the truth unless he's wrong, who's willing to do anything to stay in power. Why do I say that?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0210par0261	That's enough!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0209par0262	Why am I saying this? If you listen, I'll explain. On 19 January, the trucks were stopped in Adana. In the trucks that were stopped in Adana on January 19th -- our General Vice President here has announced -- there are rockets, there are ammunition. With the help of MIT, the terrorist organizations there, ISIS. What do we have against ISIS? They still have 40 or so of our ambassadors, our ambassadors. What are we pregnant with? And it's a known fact that these weapons are in the hands of the terrorist organization. Now, I ask you all, don't all of you have as much blood on the hands of those underdogs as those who were killed with guns in the trucks, who supplied those weapons and put them in the hands of the killers? The blood of those oppressed is on the hands of those who put those weapons in their hands, and the account will be asked of all those involved in this world and in the real world. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0211par0265	Thank you, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0212par0268	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0211par0269	You must have a roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0213par0270	Mr. President, we need 20 people on their feet at the same time.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0211par0271	They're up, sir. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Köse, Mr. Köse, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Calcutta, Mr. Pine, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Akar, Mr. Ozüşmiş, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Korsik, Mr. Sekhi, Mr. Keskin, Mr. Elector. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposed 639 Orders of the Law Proposal shall be replaced and offered in the 70th Amendment to Article 152 of the Law on State Officers No. 657. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0214par0285	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0211par0286	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0215par0287	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0211par0288	Motive... Teachers are at the head of professional groups that receive minimum wage and suffer serious financial difficulties among professions that require special residency. Many teachers living below the poverty line are known to be moonlighting. This motion aims to increase teacher's education compensation. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit to your votes the joke "B" based on 70, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Moving to item 71. There are four proposals on matter, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 71 of Law Bill 639 be changed as follows. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can from Nurettin Canikli Recep Special Mohammed Bilal Macit Mehmet Altay "The first sentence of Article 33 of Law 71-6557, which follows the declaration of'mouth and dental care centers' to come after the first sentence of the first sentence of Article 33 of Law 71-657, 'family health centers, community health centers',' in its third sentence, "the fourth article of the'month' was added to the 'family health and health centers of the community, for 60 hours, other places and for no reason', and for the second part of the second part of the "alignment and dental health care centers" and for the "al health centers of the family and health centers of the community," was added to its third sentence, as part of the '11/4/1928, and as part of the fourth article of the 12/1928, under the 14th amendment. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's; Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and İzkici Movement Party Group Chair Oktay Öral's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyettic Movement Party Group Chair Oktay Vical's; Kahrammarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu and Milliyetci MP Izklı İzmir MP Oktay Ökalallı's Party's Party's Party; Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MP Oktay Ökalal; Konya MP Mustafa Kalajcı and Milliyetcı's Party's Party's Group of Movement Group; President Sadar Durmazı MP Sadir Durmaz and MP's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's MP Oktay Ökal İzkekal Başçı; Şeçı MP and Minister's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party of the Minister's Party of the Minister's Minister's Party of the Minister of the Parliament of the Parliament for the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of State of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Minister of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of State of State of State of State of the Council of Justice of Justice of State of Justice of the Council of the Council of State of State of State of State of State of the Council of Justice of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of State of the Council of the Council of State of State of
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0216par0306	It has been read,
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0217par0307	Sir, it's 2/... [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök White]] 1245, 1248, 1258, 1260, 1301, 1302, 1345...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0218par0310	One second, sir... it's missing.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0219par0311	We told you from the beginning.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0218par0312	What did you say, sir? The motion we've made must be read exactly.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0220par0313	Now that I've read it from the beginning, it's how friends have read it before.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0218par0314	No, sir. So whatever it says here, whatever it says in the motion we gave him, it has to read according to what it says. So there's no way anyone can arrange it here.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0220par0315	They were all read that way because it was in the parentheses, and so far it's been read that way.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0218par0316	No, sir. I mean, this needs to be read. We demand it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0221par0317	It's against the rules. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök White]] 2/1245, 2/1258, 2/1442, 2/1498, 2/1350, 2/1364, 2/1525, 2/1414, 2/1426, 2/1431, 2/1442, 2/1488, 2/1498, 2/1516, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/16, 2/21, 2/21, 2/16, 2/21, 2/17, 2/24, 2/21, 2/17, 2/21, 2/17, 2/24, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/17, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/16, 2/21, 2/16, 2/24, 2/21, 2/16, 2/16, 2*1, 216, 2/21, 216, 216, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 216, 2/24, 2/21, 2/16, 2/24, 2/21, 2/21, 2/16, 2/21, 216, 216, 216, 2-6, 2-6, 2-6, 216, 216, 216, 216, 216, 216, 216, 216, 216, 216, 216, 216, 216, 224, 216, 224, 224, 224, 224, 224, 224, 224, 224, 224, 2-6, 224, 224, 216, 216, 2-6, 2-6. Erkan Akçay Cemaletdin Simsek Mustafa Kalaycı Alim İlm Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Article 33 of Law 71-657 has been changed as follows. "In addition to the weekly working hours of normal, emergency or major seizures in the family health centres, family health centres, and 112 emergency health care centres, the duty fee is paid for each watch for each watch that cannot be met by permission (not less than 6 hours), which will be calculated by the monthly co-existence of the indicator numbers shown below, except for the weekly work period. This fee is paid by an increase of 50 per cent for seizures held in intensive care, emergency services and 112 emergency health care. However, there is no way to pay for more than 130 hours per month at family health and health centres and elsewhere. This fee will not be subject to any tax or deduction except for the stamp tax. This clause also applies to those who work at universities' bed treatment institutions and are covered by Article 50 (e) of Article 2547 of Higher Education Law, dated 4/11/1981. In exchange for this watch, the contractary staff and the officers who are not allowed to use permission from the institution will be paid a duty fee of up to 60 per cent of the salary set for the watch, not less than 12 hours per watch period, for each period that cannot be met by permission. The total amount of time of duty that can be paid in this manner cannot exceed 130 hours a month. In accordance with this clause, payments are covered by the return capital budget in institutions with return capital. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal 639 is removed from the article for 60 hours and other places and in no way in order to come to its third sentence after its'month' in the second joke of Article 71 of Article 639. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; of Ankara MP İzzet Çetin; of İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; of Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Izklı MP Oktay Kıkalal; of İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel; of İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; of İstanbul MP İzket Çeş; of Ankara MP İzket Çeş; of İstanbul MP İçaşı; of İstanbul MP Şeçı; of Turkey's Party of Parliament; and of İstanbul MP İsıtım Çağal; of Turkey's Party of Parliament; of Turkey's Party of Parliament; of İstanbul MP İzktay Çeçıçıçılı; of İstanbul MP İçıt Çıçı; of İstanbulıçıçıçıçı; of İstanbul MP İsıçıçıçılı; of İstanbul MP of Parliament; of Parliament; of the İstanbul MP of the İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of the Parliament; of the Parliament; of the İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of the Parliament; of İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of the Party of the Parliament; of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of the İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of the İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of İstanbul MP of Turkey and İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of Turkey; of İstanbul MP of Turkey; Mehmet of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul of Turkey; of Turkey; of the Parliament; of İstanbul of İstanbul of İstanbul of İstanbul (TK of the Parliament; Mehmet of Turkey; Mehmet of Turkey; Mehmet of İstanbul (Çı of the Party of Turkey of Turkey; Mehmet of the Party of the Parliament; Mehmet of the Party of the Party of the Party of Turkey; Mehmet of the Parliament of the Party of the Parliament; Mehmet of Turkey; Mehmet of the Parliament; Mehmet of Parliament of the Parliament of Turkey; Mehmet of the Party of Turkey; Mehmet of the Party of İstanbul of the Parliament; Mehmet of Turkey; Mehmet of the Party of Turkey; Mehmet of Parliament of Parliament of İstanbul of the Party of the Parliament of the Party of Turkey; Mehmet of Parliament of the Parliament; Mehmet of the Parliament of Parliament of the Party of the Party of İstanbul MP of the Party of Turkey; Meslim Sarı Ali Sarıbaş Bornt Kuşoğlu Gürkut Acar Turhan Tayan Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan Mehmet Hilal Kaplan
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0222par0345	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0223par0346	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0222par0347	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0224par0348	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0222par0349	Alderman Mehmet Hilal Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0225par0352	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers in accordance with our motion on Article 71 of the Law Bill 639. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with the change in sentences added to this clause, you bring a watch to physicians at family health centers and community health centers. I don't know what happened. If you recall that the Minister of Health was not present on this bench -- except in the 10th place of the 10th article of the Family Medicine Law published in the Official Journal of May 25, 2010, it is essential that family physicians are not detained in hospitals, except in the centers of integrated health care. Although it is said today, you have to guard physicians at family health centres and at the community health centre. I want to tell you, dear lawmakers, why do you want to keep watch on family health centre and community health clinic physicians in the emergency rooms and services of hospitals and 112? Do you know why you've revolutionized that health care, that you've made a transformation in health in Turkey, that you've always boasted about, those 112, or the emergency services, have come into this seizure? You haven't changed the infrastructure of 112, you haven't changed the technical equipment. You already know the lack of nurses and doctors, that's not enough; you said with a populist political approach: there will be no contributions to emergency services and emergency health care. The citizen is already living hard, and what did the citizen do in the trouble of making a living, not to pay for his contributions? He stormed the E.R., stormed the hospitals' emergency rooms. Today, more than 1,000 patients are taken care of in the emergency rooms of any hospital. It happened yesterday, you must have seen it on TV. Every day there's fighting in the hospitals' emergency rooms, there's noise, there's noise. We've been on the Board of Violence in Health together. Many of my fellow physicians know, where is the most violent place in health? Hospitals with 112 and emergency health care. Now, I'm asking you: In fact, you needed to improve the equipment in the hospital's emergency room while you were in Turkey converting to health. I've already warned the Minister of Health here, and I said: "Long and short-term EMTs need to be trained." We said, "If you try to go this way, it will hurt all of us one day." Where are we? Look, where are we? Now, what are you trying to do to combine the lack of emergency services in 112? You want to transfer physicians from family health centers and community health. The annual contracts we made at family health centers did not include keeping watch in hospitals. What happened? Again, this was not part of the previous Full - Time Law. Where is he now? Now you're keeping watch on doctors at family health centers and community health centers to cover it. Oh, my God! If you don't want to be the thousandth patient there, if you don't want to leave the physicians to suffer from exhaustion syndrome, if you don't want to be subjected to violence in the emergency rooms of their hospitals, then come back and give up this legislation. I'm telling you, it's not too late. There is no point in taking physicians from family health centers and family health centers during the period in which the emergency health care services of hospitals have been trained through emergency medical experts and the Ministry of Health has assigned adequate staff. Look, the doctor in the E.R.'s workload is increasing. After a shift in the E.R....
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0226par0358	Now you're doing politics.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0225par0359	Allow me... you're a physician.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0226par0360	You're doing politics.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0225par0361	He'll be on watch, he'll be off the clinic, he'll be on guard at the next A hospital, he'll rest after the shift, he'll go to the clinic, he'll get paid?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0226par0362	He'll rest and get his money.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0225par0363	Who's the victim? The victim is just a citizen. The victim is just a citizen. So don't make this arrangement difficult, don't make it difficult for the doctors, don't make it difficult for the health workers. You're a doctor, you're a chief of medicine, you're from a medical clinic.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0226par0365	Right, right.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0225par0366	You have no right to disparage the physicians.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0226par0367	There's no such thing as an amalgamation.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0225par0368	Because we entrust our children, our family, our mother, our father, to those physicians... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] None of us have the right to discredit them. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0227par0373	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second joke of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal, we propose and propose the release of the statement "for 60 hours at family health and public health centers, elsewhere and in no way" to come to its third sentence after "moon." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0228par0380	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0227par0381	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0229par0382	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0230par0383	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0227par0384	I'm reading the reason: With this arrangement, the government brings a 60-hour limit to be paid for seizures at family health and public health centres. However, in the current law, the limit of the wages paid to health workers in bed-ridden treatment institutions, mobile hospitals, oral and dental clinics and 112 emergency health care services is 130 hours. This motion aims to ensure that the health workers of family health and health care centres can also receive wages for their watch for up to 130 hours. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's; Koniya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MHP Group MP Oktay Vural's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetist Movement Party Group MP Oktay Ökal's; Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu and MHP Group MP Oktay Sakal; Konya MP Mustafa Kalajcı and MHP Group MP Oktay Ökalal; MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MHP Group MP Oktay Ökalalal; Manisa İzkkan MP Oktay Ökalal; Chief of the Minister's Party's Democratic Party of the Parliament and Minister of the Minister's Party's Democratic Party; Şaşaşaşı, Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of Parliament and Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Union; Mehmets Party of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of State of State of the Commission and the Minister of State of the Council of State of Parliament and the Council of State of State of State of State of the Minister of State of State of State of State of State of Parliament of State of State of Parliament of Parliament of State of State of Parliament of State, Minister of State of State of Parliament of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Parliament and of Parliament and of Parliament and of Parliament and of Parliament and of State of State of Parliament and of State of State and of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of the State of State of State of State of State of the State of State of State of State of
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0231par0391	Mr. President, he's doing it again. Five hundred fifty-five hundred
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0232par0392	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0227par0393	Dear Bayram...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0231par0394	Bayram...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0233par0395	Mr. President, sir, this is rude to our motions, disrespectful to the opposition.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0234par0396	That's rhetorical. The motion text must be read exactly and read by skipping, Clerk Member. I demand and insist that it be read from the beginning.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0235par0397	Did he skip the numbers, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0234par0398	Yes, on purpose, wrong... she has to read what's written there. I demand and insist he read it from the beginning.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0235par0399	Well, read the numbers again, please. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] 1/931, 2/119, 2/195, 2/68, 2/298, 2/324, 2/368, 2/399, 2/434, 2/439, 2/453, 2/524, 2/555, 2/601, 2/640, 2/68, 2/691, 2/798, 2/89, 2/89, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/14/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/14/24, 2/24/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/14/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/14/14/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/14/24, 2/24, 2/14/14/24, 2/14/14, 2/14, 2/24, 2/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/24/24/24, 2/24, 2/24, 216/24, 2/24, 216, 216/24/24/24/24/14/14/14/14/14/24/24/14/14/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/14/24/14/14/24, 224, 214, 214/24/24/24/24, 214/24, 214, 214, 214, 214/24, 224, 214/14/14/24, 224, 214/24, 214, 214/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/24, 214/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14, 214, 214, 214/14/14/14/14/14/24/24/14, 214/24/24/24/14, 214/14/14/14/14/14, 214/14, 214, 214/24/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/ Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Article 33 of Law 71 - 657 has been changed as follows. "In addition to the weekly working hours of normal, emergency or major seizures in the family health centres, family health centres, and 112 emergency health care centres, the duty fee is paid for each watch for each watch that cannot be met by permission (not less than 6 hours), which will be calculated by the monthly co-existence of the indicator numbers shown below, except for the weekly work period. This fee is paid by an increase of 50 per cent for seizures held in intensive care, emergency services and 112 emergency health care. However, there is no way to pay for more than 130 hours per month at family health and health centres and elsewhere. This fee will not be subject to any tax or deduction except for the stamp tax. This clause also applies to those who work at universities' bed treatment institutions and are covered by Article 50 (e) of Article 2547 of Higher Education Law, dated 4/11/1981. In exchange for this watch, the contractary staff and the officers who are not allowed to use permission from the institution will be paid a duty fee of up to 60 per cent, not less than 12 hours per watch, for each period that cannot be met with permission. The total amount of time of duty that can be paid in this manner cannot exceed 130 hours a month. In accordance with this clause, payments are covered by the return capital budget in institutions with return capital. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0236par0409	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0235par0410	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0237par0411	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0235par0412	Mersin MP Ali Oz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0238par0415	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on the 71st Article of the Law Bill, 639 rows. I hereby salute your high council. We're still filling everything into the bag bill. The status of family medicine is a brand-new model in your time of transition, but I feel compelled to tell you that some things may bother you a little bit, but to share with you, to stop something. We have a large number of fellow physicians working together in the Justice and Development Party Group, who we respect for their opinions, but I say you've signed a major responsibility. Wherever it comes from, whether it's signed without execution or whether it comes from the Ministry of Health's proposal, we, as our physicians, should stand up for physicians who are also concerned about human health in Turkey, we must stop something from being introduced here without our opinion and without being discussed in our commission. You've already established a model called family medicine, while they've already had family medicine in this country, while they're taking tests, and they've achieved a certain success in certain exams, and after a three-year residency period, you've completed family medicine status, and you've completed a family practice, and in Turkey you've made practice physicians as family physicians in order to change the system. It's a big mistake, it's not acceptable. Look, don't get me wrong about what I'm talking about, I'm not talking about the wrong thing about family medicine. As a family physician, it is the greatest blow to the health of 76 million people living in the Republic of Turkey to define physicians and to give them a title by certifying them, especially without having them complete their medical education, without having them complete their practical and theoretical education. We're all supposed to be strongly opposed to this. We've identified their positions from the top down here, related to this seizure system, regarding physicians serving at family health centers and community health centers. In particular, we have expressed what tasks they should take on, not this therapeutic medicine, but protective medicine, first-stage medicine, and what activities they should conduct regarding those areas. What just happened? While we've made this clear before, we bring a compelling seizure to friends who are suddenly working at family health centers and community health centers, who have a lot of responsibilities, who are already in charge, who are dealing with one-on-one problems at a time with people they're supposed to care for, even if they don't already have one-on-one. Now, all of our fellow physicians here know that it takes an average adjustment period to adapt to a place in medicine, to provide healthy health care, to ensure that this health care is quality. So now, are we going to gain something as a nation by bringing our friends on guard duty at family health centers and community health centers? We're not gonna win. Tomorrow, when you have an emergency of your own, when you apply to a friend there, a fellow physician there, if you find the physician or not, you will face some problems. There's no point in re-launching emergency cases, loading loads, after the end of working hours for these friends at community health centers, when we know when to invite them to the emergency system 112, how to assess them, how to send them to an advanced centre. The doctors don't only care about money; the important thing is to provide quality, quality health care. You bring it in, or if it doesn't get here by now, let him have money, let him take it... to be so condescending to this profession, especially to lower his dignity... believe me, even when I'm talking about it. What we need to talk about is how people can benefit from health care and medicine in Turkey, in a more comfortable environment, in a more delicious way, from the start, we have a lot of really self-made physician friends in the Commission, who value their opinion, and I believe that we need to prepare a new model, not under pressure, but freely. Of course, here in the bag, I'd like to remind all of you that on Nurse's Day, Mr. Prime Minister promised me that once in five years, I would give the doctors and health workers their share of wear and tear in order to compensate for 12 years of medical care. Our Republican People's Party orator friend, who had just spoken before me, spoke about the violence in health, the difficulty in the environment, the intensity in the field and the emergency. I, in this bag, think it would be better if, instead, the health workers' rights were improved and their share of actual wear and tear. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0239par0428	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0240par0431	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0239par0432	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Köse, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Çakavan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Bayaktutan, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Keskin, Mr. Ekşi, Mr. Korturk. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 71 of Law Bill 639 be changed as follows. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "The first sentence of Article No. 71-657 of Article 33 of the Law, which follows the declaration of'mouth and dental care centers' to come in after the first sentence of the first sentence of Article 33 of the Law, "the family health centers, the community health centers', the third sentence of the'moon month' and the fourth article of the 12/4/19th amendment, which has been included in the "other" and the second phrase "e" under the substructure of the term "e" and "e." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0241par0447	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0239par0448	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0242par0449	We accept, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0239par0450	I'm reading the reason: Around 800 foreign national doctors, who are already trained in medicine under expert legislation, are on watch at bed-ridden treatment institutions, such as the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. It is recommended that foreign medical examiners also receive a watch fee in exchange for the watch they are keeping.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0243par0455	Request roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0244par0457	It'll fit, it'll fit!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0239par0458	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Silver, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Pine, Mr. Köse, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Demirtutan, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Özgüş, Mr. Keskin, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Ekshi. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Switching to item 72. There are three motions, two are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Yusef Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear "The President of the Project Group of Specialisation Administration, the President of the Social Security Foundation, Education, Research and Development Centre," the 9th term, "The State Manager of the Executive Director of the Institution of Turkey," following the declaration (II) in the 8th row of the Court of Law, dated 72-27/6/1989. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions, and I'm going to promise the motions to those who have the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the 639 Numbered Bill of Law, which has been discussed, shall be removed from the draft text of the 72th Article, which stipulates a change in the Court of Law No. 375 (II) dated 27/6/1989. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Owners of the other motion in the same context: Ali Serindağ Free Special Haydar Akar Hasan Ören Musa Pine Mehmet Ali Sesam Bkent Kuşoğlu Balık Köse Does the Commission agree with these proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0245par0492	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0239par0493	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0246par0494	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0247par0495	Motive.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0239par0496	I'm reading the reason: Many articles discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission have been submitted into the draft text by violation of the Civil Code and the Constitution. This bill, envisioned to be about the miners we lost in Soma, should then be added to a large number of non-related substances, the legislative technique, the Civil Code, and constitutionally, subject to the right legal process. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. Corum MP Flood Köse. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0248par0503	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've just been interrupted, so I'd like to pick up where I left off. Hundreds of people are dying in Gaza in the last ten days of the ground operation. What are we doing? But we're talking nonsense. I said it. The Secretary General of the United Nations is coming to the Middle East to resolve the problem between Palestine and Israel, but unfortunately, there is no Turkey in this equation, and there is no Turkey in these visits, so Turkey's ineffective element has fallen into the quality of an empty cluster. Now, there's something more important than all of them. In 1987, there was an intifada organized by El Feteh. Do you remember? Does anyone remember? I suppose there is. Civil disobedience. The number of Palestinians who died in this intifada within a year was 369, but the number of people who died in the last ten days was more than 800, perhaps more than a thousand today. Does it ever occur to you that there is a lack of power in Middle Eastern policy here, where do we leave it, what do we do? Now, he said that your current Vice President, Numan Survivor, his name, I believe, was won by the AKP because of Israel's greatest diplomatic victory. He said that Numan was saved, and I didn't say that. Again -- I'm saying what's left of what I just said -- although Israel was criticized in advance, he had different plans in the background. That's how they talk, Numan says he's saved. Now, here's what you're doing, friends, is you're after an empty policy that whips emotions, but doesn't work, and has no goals. Now, we've passed it, we've passed Gaza. Friends, Syria. There's blood in Syria, isn't there? All my friends told me that only 1.5 million refugees were in Turkey, and I'm not going to go there. There's a fight in Iraq. There are Turks in both Iraq and Syria; 1.5 million in Turkmen Syria, 2 million in Turkmen Iraq. What does our power do for them? You do nothing but leave this to your destiny. Here's what you're doing: you used the Turkmen as cover for the weapons sent under the MIT's aid package, to help the Turkmen. He was captured on December 19th, and your cover was blown. Now, there's a company called Siemens. I don't know how the company is saved by Siemens, but ISIS has saved its hostages. The entire Republic of Turkey -- whatever's under it -- has been in the hands of our diplomats, a bloody terrorist organization called ilSID. I swear to God, once again, what do we have against this ISIS that we can't go after ISIS? What are we hiding from ISIS, and what are we afraid of ISIS? My dear friends, I've just said something, that the President is not telling the truth when the PM is not wrong. Lately, I've been on the gang.....
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0249par0512	It's got nothing to do with us.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0248par0513	If you listen, really, I mean it. He's saying "Hashhashi" and "Hashhashi" and "Murit" and "A lot of things," and these days he's accusing the opposition of collaborating with Pennsylvania. Look, you're laughing, but what did he say? On the way to America, will you go to Pennsylvania? Did Mr. Bulent Arinc leave? Then, if you remember that you did an Olympic in Turkish, the Turkish Olympics, where it says for Master Fethullah: "Come, let this longing be over, come, come to your homeland, come to your home." Why were you calling this? Are you calling me here to accuse me of treason? He's got all this heart, all this emotional talk going on in there. Now, dear friends -- time is short, time is short -- I'm going to say something about Mr. Bulent Arinc, and I'm going to finish. Now, Mr. Bulent Arinc is going to America, and he wants to go to Pennsylvania with the Prime Minister on his way to America. The Prime Minister says, "Go after my power of attorney." He says, "They're competing with each other." He says, "No, I went from dignity to myself, I went for myself." And he says very nice things about Fethullah Gulen.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0250par0517	Where's that in the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0248par0518	Listen, there's nothing in the motion, nothing in the motion. He says very nice things, he says: "We are friends with Lord Fethullah, for God's sake. Don't you wonder who has left the way of God and has broken this friendship? The operations of December 17th and December 25th showed who had left the way of God. Did that not open your eyes, or did that not open your eyes? I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0251par0522	Thank you, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0252par0525	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0251par0526	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Pine, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Köse, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Bayker, Mr. Baykal, Mr. Sapan, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özsüşmiş, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Serindağ. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the same motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's; Koniya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyetçi Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Oktay Ökal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz; MHP Group MP Oktay Ökal; Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu; MHP Group MP Izkım Oktay Sakal; MP Mustafa Kalajcı, MP, MHP Group MP Oktay Öktay Öçal; Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party (HDP) Minister of Turkey's Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party's Democratic Party (HDP) Party of Turkey's Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party's Democratic Party (CHP Party) Party (HDP) Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party Party (HDP) Minister of Turkey's Party (HDP) Minister of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party (HDP) Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party (HDP) Democratic Party (HDP) Minister of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey's Party (HDP) Minister of Turkey's Party's Party of Turkey's Party (PKK (HDP) Minister of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party (PKK (HDP of Turkey's Party) Minister of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party [[1/931, 2/195, 2/195, 2/28297, 2/298, 2/324, 2/368, 2/399, 2/434, 2/439, 2/453, 2/524, 2/528, 2/601, 2/640, 2/689, 2/691, 2/798, 2/885, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/14, 2/14/24, 2/14/24, 2/14, 2/24, 2/24, 2/14/14/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/12/14/14/14/24, 2/14/24, 2/14/14/14/24, 2/24, 2/14/24/24/24/24/24/2/24/24, 2/24/24/24/24/24/24, 2/24, 2/14/24/24/24/24, 2/14/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/12, 216/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/14/14/14/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/14/14/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24, 224, 212, 216, 224/24, 216, 216, 224/12/14/12, 216, 216/14/14/14/14/14/14/24, 224/14/14/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/24]] We offer and propose that Article 72 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "The President of the Project Group of Specialisation Administration, the President of the Social Security Foundation, Education, Research and Development Centre," the 9th term, "The State Manager of the Executive Director of the Institution of Turkey," following the declaration (II) in the 8th row of the Court of Law, dated 72-27/6/1989. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0253par0543	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0251par0544	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0254par0545	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0251par0546	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0255par0548	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, I'm really not happy with the weather at the current Assembly General Assembly. So the opposition...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0256par0551	What can we do?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0255par0552	Excuse me, folks, if you'll excuse me. Look, I made a sentence, let me get the rest. I mean, the tension that both ruling party MPs and opposition lawmakers have fallen into, actually, doesn't serve the purpose, but look, there's a reason for that, dear friends, there's a reason for that. While he sets the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the opposition will must be reflected in some way as he conducts the talks. However, even though the solution is compromise, unfortunately, the will represented by the opposition is not considered. Sadly, therefore, the country, along with its power and opposition, is unable to fit into its ruling party, taking its views and taking its direction. That's why they often bring up the bag of law, the basic law. Dear friends, please ask yourself: since when can this General Assembly not discuss a normal law? So the bag is the law, and the basic law isn't the answer. Here, it can be locked if there is no common will in the General Assembly, as the Civil Code has given the opposition. So, today's bag of legislation shows that this is the wrong idea and the bag of legislation that was brought here is about picking up what you've broken. Things aren't going well, not in economics, not in working life. We see this when we look at the items in the bag of laws. The economy is in a vicious cycle, replaced by real production by virtual economic data, which is almost every merchant, every businessman's good fortune to pay off the debt. He closes down and closes his shop so that he doesn't have to go to work and kill tens, hundreds of workers, or sell what he has and throw it away. The little shopkeeper has already forgotten to make money for a long time, and he's got dozens of credit cards, he's got one, he's got one, he's got one, he's got the other. He's trying to save the day with debts from the neighbor. What's he gonna do, poor little tradesman? The boy will come, and the girl will come, so the son of an influential man does not want to be branded. For those of you who own factories, multi-billion-dollar businesses, sailors, you can't understand that feeling, neither your children can understand it, nor you can understand it, nor can you, nor can you, nor can you, understand it, without throwing stones, nor do your arms tirelessly, nor do your fellow businessmen who have great fortunes understand it. The market has turned into debt, the businessmen, the tradesmen, the traders, the producers, they've become increasingly steeped in debt. Only banks and interest lobbys profit from this. The banks have made their profits astronomical, and when their profits are announced in the newspapers, the Prime Minister, who has not given up Islam, Islam, and Islam, needs to be a little embarrassed by the government. In a Muslim country, interest revenues shouldn't be so high, banks shouldn't be able to make so much profit in my country. In this case, as I said, only the interest lobby is satisfied, only the banks are satisfied. In the first half of this year, the banks, dear friends, seized 1,316 real estates, and the number of real estate they had exceeded 8,000. The most seized real estate has increased by 35 per cent, with gardens, olives and nut gardens, businesses with a 32 per cent increase, factories with 30 per cent increase. 10 of the factories that were sold were in Izmir, 6 in Karaman, 5 in Düzce and Manisa, 4 in Balıkesir, Bursa, İstanbul, Seipeli and Sakarya. I counted these cities specifically so that the ruling party MPs might think a little bit about it -- the MPs of these provinces -- but I see you have no regrets or regrets. In order to stay in power for just one more day, banks have made a huge profit, hundreds of thousands of workers are out of work, you don't care. So, today we're talking about a bag of laws where this image is registered. I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit08spe0257par0560	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 72nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 72nd article is accepted. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit09spe0257par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I'm taking a 30-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0257par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. We were in Article 73. There are three motions in Article 73: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current 639 Numbered Bill of Laws be replaced as'refundable' in Article 73, which envisions adding additional material to Article 375. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP İzket Celan's Party; İstanbul MP İzkat Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Parliament's Party's Minister's Minister's Party of Law; Ankara MP İzktay Köçeşılı; İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Mehmet Çağalıtın's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çağeşeşeşı Akçı; İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara MP İşt Çeçı İçıçıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP and İstanbul MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party (Eğeşeşeşıııılı İçıçıçıçıııçıçıçıçıçıçı MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party); İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's Minister of İstanbul MP's Minister of Parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister of Parliament's Minister of İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Celal Dinçer Müslim Sarı Ali Serindağ Mehmet Crescent Kaplan Uğur Bayraktutan The following article has been added to the provisions under the provisions of Article 73-375. "EK MADDE 1 7-6/1/1982, under Law 2576 and under Law 26/9/2004 and under Law 5235, it is possible to pay more work fees if you do not exceed more than 50 hours per month or more than 300 hours per year in the central management budget law," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Yusuf Halaçoğlu Muharrem Varlı Mesut Dedeoğlu The following article has been added to the provisions under the provisions of Article 73-375. "EK MADDE 17- 6/1/1982, under Law 26/9/2004, and under Law No. 5235, overworks can be paid by officers serving in more than 70 or 500 hours per month in the central management budget law, with more than three times as much as the amount of hours are set for each employee per year, which are established by the Law 26/9/2004, and more than according to other courts. According to this joke, the number of staff that can be paid overtime cannot exceed 30% of the total number of employees serving in the courts. A total amount of annual overtime is determined by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Justice Department. The Ministry of Justice is in charge of determining the courts with a lot of work to do and to distribute the total overtime to the relevant courts and to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this joke. This payment is not subject to any tax, except for the stamp tax. In accordance with this clause, there will be no extra work fees paid to personnel who have been paid under any name in exchange for overwork within the framework of other legislation provisions." Does the commission agree with this motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0258par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0257par0030	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0259par0031	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0257par0032	Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0260par0035	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 73. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0261par0036	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0262par0037	I thought there were three motions in this clause.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0261par0038	HDP's...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0263par0039	It was read first, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0262par0040	It's not read, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0263par0041	It was read first. Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0264par0043	This bill, this bag of legislation, this bill about the families of those who lost their lives in the Soma mining disaster, that was brought in about the mining disaster there, and then a lot of additions to it, from bag to sack to sack, from sack to sack. So I told you in my speech the other day, every July, when the AKP classic comes in, there's a bag of laws like this, here at night, up to two or three o'clock, especially with the fatigue and the tension of the Ramadan, where hearts get broken for no reason, nerves get nervous, people get nervous, people argue with each other, but you do it all the time. There's a lot of opportunities here for investors, for business, and there's only one place you haven't been able to afford, and that's the farmer. Speaking on the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, the valuable AKP spokesman has made a very good assessment here today. Right now, the only people in our country who don't give a damn are farmers, so the only people in the country who are more than importing exports are farmers. Today it provides both foreign currency in our country, and in our country, it prevents current deficits. But, when you look at it, you're making arrangements about the industry's insurance debt, about tax debt, about the taxpayers' tax debt, insurance debt, but there's nothing about the farmer. The farmer, on the other hand, has many shortages; for example, he owes a large debt to the irrigation troops, and the farmers have difficulty paying their debts. We've said it over and over again here, and we've submitted a motion, and you've rejected all of it, refused to accept it, and you've ignored the farmer again. But if you had done a reconstruction of the debt of the irrigation troops, you would have given our farmers a great deal of opportunity, a great deal of ease. Again, this year's production of wheat related to agricultural drought has been very weak, very few. I think there's going to be trouble with corn and cotton because of this drought. We've decided to hold off on agricultural bank loans, agricultural loans, interest-free loans. You put it off on interest, you brag about it, but on the other hand, you're handing it out to the industrialists, the moneyholders, the investors. You're ignoring the only part of this country that produces, feeds our people, contributes to our exports, keeps the business open. Again, in this law, our dear speaker friend has also made a very good point about animalism. So our land, our meadows, our mountain, our stone, is so available for livestock that it's so capable of increasing our number of animals, producing meat, producing milk, but we can't use it. You're opening up our livestock as if it's enough to sustain us day after day, and then you're trying to restructure the merests as if they're mature enough for us.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0265par0047	Their numbers are increasing.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0264par0048	Our friend says he's growing. That's right, it's increasing. Now, the number from ten to twelve years ago is not the same as the number from twelve years later. Second: 12 years ago, there was no proper count in this country. When the Agriculture Bank gave loans, they didn't want a paper on livestock, while other private banks didn't want a paper on livestock when they gave loans, many animals weren't registered. So the number has increased. What you call the number of animals recorded has increased. Actually, there's been a certain decline in the number of animals. When we're supposed to protect the meres, we're supposed to multiply the meres, and we're supposed to do this in order to increase animalism, while we're supposed to do this in order to make animalism. So one day tomorrow, near downtown, all places of attraction will be removed from the meadows, controlled by municipalities, giant apartments will be built there, and the space they will use to feed their animals will also be out of their hands. And when we're importing meat, carcas meat, importing live animals, that's the end of our farmers and peasants. I also offer this to your attention, and I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0266par0051	Thank you, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0267par0052	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0266par0053	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... [[There's the AK PARTY lines, there's the voices, there's the voices.]] Let's do it with the electronics. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP İzket Celan's Party; İstanbul MP İzkat Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Parliament's Party's Minister's Minister's Party of Law; Ankara MP İzktay Köçeşılı; İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Mehmet Çağalıtın's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çağeşeşeşı Akçı; İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara MP İşt Çeçı İçıçıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP and İstanbul MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party (Eğeşeşeşıııılı İçıçıçıçıııçıçıçıçıçıçı MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party); İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's Minister of İstanbul MP's Minister of Parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister of Parliament's Minister of İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends The following article has been added to the provisions under the provisions of Article 73-375. "EK MADDE 17- 6/1/1982, under Law 2576 and under Law 26/9/2004 and under Law 5235, it is possible to pay more work fees if you do not exceed more than 50 hours per month or more than 300 hours per year in the central management budget law," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0268par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0266par0068	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0269par0069	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0266par0070	You don't agree. Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktutan... Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0270par0074	Mr. President, very valuable lawmakers, there's a sentence in Article 73 of the following, concerning the overtime fee for overburdened courts. I'm happy to remind you that Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and I submitted a parliamentary research motion here in February. That research motion was also a motion to investigate the demand for serious corrections of court officials. This motion for research was rejected by the AKP's votes, but I was most surprised by the MHP. I condemn the MPP here. That's when the MHP refused. I mean, we can't possibly accept that. First of all, I'd like to express it. I'd like to say that I don't like the MHP Group's style at all. Dear lawmakers, if there is a principle of equality set here in Article 10 of the Constitution, that no class, person or group should be granted privileges, and if we are to pay overtime here under the principle that they should not be granted privileges, then we should pay additional fees for all courts without giving them a reason for their overtime. For what? Because we've been critical of this kind of distinction in the courts, especially the way the Ministry of Justice had previously resisted, throwing the ball at the Finance Ministry, not giving overtime to court officials, and unfortunately at the moment, our demands were not accepted by the Parliament's research motion that we had submitted at that time. My dear friends, in the principle of separation of forces gathered under three main topics of legislation, execution and judgment, unfortunately, we see three hairs, lawyer, prosecutor, and judge in the title. The court staff has always been ignored, treated like an orphan. There's no way to accept them. Actually, in the kitchen study of the courthouse, the real heroes of the kitchen are court employees. Who are they? How can we forget the bailiffs, my dear friends? We always say from the beginning, let's take them into the general management service class. We can't afford to take it this way. There's editors, there's bailiffs, there's staff in other technical services, there's drivers, so the courthouse is completely neglected. Making courthouse palaces, building great buildings, it's impossible to ignore the problems of court employees, my dear friends. So we don't think we should ignore the court staff in a painting like this. Don't they have any other problems? Of course, he's got other problems. For example, there are problems with promotional staff. The judges and prosecutors also take serious advantage of promotions because they are seriously paid by other employees as officers. Therefore, we need to resolve the inequality between judges and prosecutors and officers. My dear friends, look, the court staff are sadly deprived of armor, protection, which is known to state officials in the sense of Law 4483. Although they are subject to Law 657 in terms of their rights, they are in charge of judicial procedures, and they are subject to prosecution by prosecutors. All the complaints about them... as the judge, when you report the prosecutor, immediately, without need of protection armor, without permission from any authorities, is being investigated, unfortunately there are no such protection measures against officers. And any time you file a complaint against those officers, you go straight to them, and every precaution is taken, my dear friends. It is not possible to accept these things, and they need to be corrected. As I said earlier, if the parliamentary research motion that we had made at that time had not been rejected, I think that if he had been voted yes, perhaps these conditions would have been more positive today. Now, there's some sort of improvement with the law that's been brought in, but this healing alone isn't enough. Why isn't it enough? Because we're throwing the ball to the Treasury for overtime on the courts, throwing it at a consultation between the Ministry of Justice and the Treasury. What size is this? By what measure, by what objective criteria, will we determine which court is working overtime, my dear friends? If we want to get past this, if we want to eliminate this inequality between the courts, let's put in a general rule, let's say that the courts work overtime at this time, let's give them overtime. My dear friends, when you gather all the civil servants together, when you evaluate them, look at the courts -- I served in the courts for over five years -- there is no definition of five per hour. We have friends here who are lawyers, both in the ruling group and in the opposition group. There is no concept of five o'clock, my dear friends. When a court employee is in autopsy at 2:00 a.m., 4:00 a.m., I'll be at the time. He can't put up a defense, a bet. They call me at 3:30 in the morning, and they say, "Come to Autopsy." Especially when there are discoveries on weekends. Wow, sir, I'm going to keep working hours. There's no such thing as my dear friends. Therefore, from the very first moment, from the years when the republic was founded to this side, especially in the last twelve, thirteen years, there have been a large group of my dear friends who have been seriously left behind both in terms of their rights and other rights, in a sense neglected, abused. What's 50,000 people? With their families, it appeals to maybe 100-150,000 people. Although this is a healing in a sense, it's never enough, it's not possible to accept. Once again, I share these reservations with your high council, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0271par0084	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0272par0085	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0271par0086	Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0272par0087	The speaker has made a direct speech targeting the National Movement Party. I want to talk about bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0271par0088	Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0272par0091	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, not only did I listen very carefully on this bench and not only did I take notes, but today, in his speech, I'd like to point out that I strongly object to the direct target of the National Party of Action. The nationalist movement has its own view of the court, the court, the judge, justice. I mean, there's nothing wrong with that, there's not even a little bit of ambiguity. Whatever our constitution and legislation -- the universal values -- has always stood on that side of the National Movement Party. It's called independence, neutrality of the courts; sir, we stand behind the warranty of justice; we defend the binding of court decisions; sir, we argue that court decisions should not be criticised by any of the people who come forward and we say: Courts rule for the Turkish nation. Therefore, the courts do not decide on the behalf of the Justice and Development Party's Republican People's Party or the National Movement Party or any part of its community. Therefore, the National Movement Party has clearly demonstrated its stance. But how did judgment come to this? I mean, what reasons did the Justice and Development Party have for throwing its hand into the judiciary? He said, "I'm going to take the judge out of being the back yard of the Republican People's Party." So what are you going to do? You're going to turn judgment into a front yard. Therefore, if there are difficulties in the judiciary today, it is also the result of a fight between the Justice and Development Party and the Republican People's Party. I hope our speaker friend gets word after me, and I think he'll answer that. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0273par0095	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0274par0096	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0273par0097	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0274par0098	Mr. President, in his oratoric speech, he used statements about our party's judgment -- showing us one and equal in the process of judicial action with the AKP -- that we were manipulating over the judiciary. We need to fix this. If you'll excuse me, Ugur Flagtutan will answer on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0273par0099	Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0275par0102	Mr. President, the most valued MPs, Mr. Nevzat may have misunderstood. I, at the beginning of my speech, have made a claim to the Council's research motion that we made last time. You have to look this way to tell who has the backyard and whose front yard, so we're out. You need to look this way, not this way, Mr. Nevzat. First of all, I'd like to express it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0276par0103	You guys fight, why are you including us?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0275par0104	My dear friends, look, there's another freak about judgment; I didn't just say that in my speech, there's a case called 4/C. Now, I'm going to Artvin's Courthouse, there are employees of Artvin's Courthouse, and there are 4/C's, and there's a freak called 4/C's, my dear friends. Look, there's a serious problem at the courthouse called 4/C, so there's a funeral there that has no guarantee in terms of financial rights, no guarantee in terms of their rights, that's literally undefined in terms of their social rights. We need to eliminate the problems of these 4/C people, their victims, my dear friends. For one thing, if an arrangement is to be made -- today they're watching the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation in the Internet -- it's related to the 4/CHL in courts in many parts of Turkey, and the Parliament on this freak should arrange it immediately. I've just said, look, when we look at the courthouse, when we look at the judge, when we look at the judge, when we look at the judge, when we look at the judge, especially when our friends outside the law think that the courthouse is made up of judges, prosecutors and lawyers, my dear friends. I've just said, there's a cut here, really, in the kitchen study, the real heroes of the courthouse, my dear friends. They're a huge army of 50,000 people, bringing us their problems, they want to improve their financial rights, they want to improve their rights. Look, report a courthouse employee today, there's no protection measure, they're in common with judges, prosecutors, but you file a complaint with a government official, and all the investigative boards of her come up to you like a wall. So we say, if we want to apply the principle of equality, if we believe in the principle of equality, then we have to bring equality in this matter, to the social rights that the court employees deserve, to the rights to the rights of equity, to the financial rights necessary. As the Republican People's Party, I express once again that we will provide any legal assurance, any support, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0277par0108	Thank you, Mr. Ugur Flagtutan.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0278par0112	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0277par0113	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0279par0115	Yes, sir...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0280par0117	No, no, no.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0279par0118	Let's do it electronically.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0281par0119	We're doing it electronically, Congressman. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0282par0121	Mr. President, I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0281par0122	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0282par0123	I mean, I don't want to interfere with how you run the House, but the number of decisions is enough to determine who's on the General Assembly at the time.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0281par0124	Now we'll see who's here, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0282par0125	But, sir, when you give me a minute, look, the doors will open, and there will be lots of people coming out of there. I mean, I can't say that this is directly compatible with the Charter.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0281par0126	And you know very well, Mr. Korkmaz, there are clerks. When I say, "There are," I say, "There are no," we do electronics, there's nothing to do.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0282par0127	Again, I apologize, sir. If he can identify it on his own without consulting the court clerks, he will, so I don't think they can influence you on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0281par0129	You're welcome.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0282par0131	I mean, were they in this meeting now?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0283par0132	Instead of closing the door, let's count the people sitting during the opposition.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0284par0133	My dear, let them love you! Let them love you! Look at the Civil Charter, and look at the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0285par0135	I'm building an electronic system, so when I ask for the number of decisions, the doors will shut automatically.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0286par0136	You can't afford him, let's get him to do it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0285par0137	No, no, don't take it, Mr. President, don't take it, it's full.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0287par0138	It's over, it's over, it's over.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0285par0139	Time's up, time's up, it's over, it's been thirty seconds.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0288par0140	You know what?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0289par0141	Congressmans, I need to end this discussion because there are 137 people electronically, in the number of decisions that are sufficient. You know the number of decisions is 139. You guys came back later. There are three compasses here that have already been entered; of Mr. Arinc, Mr. Faruk Çelikin, and Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0285par0142	No Faruk Steel, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0289par0143	By proxy, by proxy, sir, I did. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] So it's 140; it's enough to decide by one vote. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0290par0148	Mr. President, now, while your attitude is correct, there have been several times when you say there is no, two clerks from the same party say there is. But then, when it's converted into electronics, it's only 140 by getting 50 MPs from the outside. At least, the ruling party, let's ask him to show some respect for the determination of the Presidential Court. I mean, we don't get results like this all the time. It would require a procedure discussion later on.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0289par0149	Now, members of parliament, the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current 639 Numbered Bill of Laws be replaced as'refundable' in Article 73, which envisions adding additional material to Article 375. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0291par0155	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0289par0156	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0292par0157	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0293par0158	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0289par0159	I'm having it read. Turkey is a common country, and legal legislation responds to it. This kind of flexible work and labour has also begun to dominate the public, with a modern-day slave labor in terms of the private sector. A change is intended to prevent labor. This motion that I've made him read...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0294par0165	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0289par0166	You want roll call. I'll meet your roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0295par0169	Mr. President, no.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0296par0170	Otherwise, you don't exist.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0289par0171	Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Akar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Kuşavan, Mr. Çakavan, Mr. Çam, Mr. Bay Bay Bayututan, Mr. Özüşmiş, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Öz. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I will submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, I'm starting to feel like I'm watching the game. I mean, please, it's getting weird. Now I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 73 is accepted. Now we're going to talk about article 74 (1), (2) jokes. There are three proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 74 of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal, we propose and propose that "35,000" be changed to "119102" and "35,000" on the list of "Ekli (3)." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's Party; Ankara MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelılılılı MP İzlı İzlı İztay Kılı; İstanbul MP İztay Çekıçı; İstanbul MP İncın's Party; İstanbul MP İncı's Party; İstanbul MP İncımım İçı and İstanbul's MP İçı Akçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul Çaçı Akçı Başıı MP İsılıılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıçıçıçıçı MP İsı MPı MP İçııııı MP İsı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııılıııııııııılılılı MPı MPıçıçıçıçı MPıçı MPı MPı MPıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPııııııııııııııııııııııııııılılılılılılılılı MPıı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılı MP and İstanbul MPı MPı MPılılılılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılılılılılılılılılılı Article 2. We propose that the "35,000" in the joke be changed to "100,000." == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Hasan Ören Özgür Special Haydar Akar Mehmet Ali Sesam Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş PRODUCTION : MULTIMAL EDUCATION EDUCATION (4) In addition to being used at Celal Bayar University (9), the academics' staffs on the list were assigned to the relevant university department on the Charter of Law 78. (9) INTERVIEW LIST Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0297par0216	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0289par0217	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0298par0218	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0289par0219	Heromarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0299par0222	Mr. President, lawmakers, I've been promised the National Movement Party Group for the amendment motion we submitted on Article 74 of Bag 639. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, on Article 74 of the bag law, the Ministry of Prime Ministership, Labour and Social Security, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, the Chairman of the IRS, and the new staff needs of Afyon Kobytepe University. Yes, these ministries, these relevant institutions will go to this staff arrangement, but we have a lot of institutions that have been established and are still under way, and there are also staff shortages here, and there are a lot of staff shortages in my own constituency, Kahramanmarash Milkyman University, medical school, and other universities. Despite the opening of our university's medical school, some departments are unable to work because of their lack of staff, and they are failing. Over the past 15 days, our teachers, our assistants who have been here have been involuntary to hold a meeting, they've taken action at the point of the deployment of these staffs. I hope that the Ministry of Finance, the relevant ministry, the Kahramanmarash Milkyman, will appoint these staffs to the University of Imam a thousand quickly, and that the lack of Kahramanmarash in health will be resolved as soon as possible. The need for personnel for public institutions and institutions is increasing day by day. The government must immediately appoint the staff needed without sheltering behind budget balances. In order to contribute to the country's economy, young people who have rotted for years should be assigned to public institutions and institutions and empty staffs immediately, completely within the framework of rights and rights, without the use of torpedoes and irreparation. In our country, unemployment is increasing a little more every day. Young unemployed are added to the new unemployed each year and continue to bear it. Government policies have never found a solution to unemployment in our country, and they haven't been able to produce it. The efforts of the AKP government on these matters are unfortunately insufficient. The government is not trying hard enough. The government must demonstrate its zeal in this matter with new purchases. There is a huge unemployment in one side of our country, while there is an opening for personnel in public institutions and institutions. As the number of teachers expected to be appointed in our country grew every day, the teachers' gaps of our schools reached 126,000, according to the Ministry of National Education data. Unions talk about the need for this teacher even higher. Mr. President, our academic deficits are no different from the teacher's gaps in our schools. According to last year's figures, the academic deficits of our universities across Turkey occurred at 26.616. The government must immediately close the teacher and academic gaps of our country by appointing new staffs. As the National Movement Party Group, we would like to say once again that we are prepared to give the government any support. Speaking of education, I'd like to briefly discuss the problems of education in Turkey. In our country, things have become inextricable within the Ministry of National Education, where the most changes to ministers have been made. Almost every minister has tried a new system in Turkey in his own way, and these tried systems have also increased the number of schools and classrooms that are missing in our country. While our students had to study in crowded classrooms, teachers and administrators were unable to present their professions efficiently due to rotations. The teaching profession has been discredited by a number of statements made by senior officials of the government, and they continue to do so. Instead of resolving the gaps and the problems of the educational community, the government has reached the doors of the classrooms to close them and is trying to close the classrooms. We say that the level of education in schools should be increased first, and then the closing of the classrooms should be considered. In any case, there will be no need for classrooms with higher education levels in schools. I ask for the acceptance of our motion to change with these thoughts and feelings, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0300par0231	Yes, thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0301par0232	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0300par0233	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel; İstanbul MP İzzet Celan; Ankara MP Sena Kala; Ankara MP İzkat Köçalı; Ankara MP Sakılı and İstanbul MP İncın Akça; Mehmet Çağal; İstanbul MP İsakı and İstanbul MP İsakı MP İsakı MP İncı MP İncın; Mehmet Köçı; İstanbul MP İsımın İsın Başçı MP İçı MP İncı; Mehmet Köçııı MP İçın Başçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; Mehmet Kıçıçıçıçıçıçı MP İçı; Mehmet Köçıçıçıçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İsı MPı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıı MPılııııııııııılıılıılıılımılıılıılı MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılımıçıçı MPı MPıçıçı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MP İçı MP İsı MP İsıçı MP İçı MPı MP İsıçıı MPılımılımılışılı MPı MPılışı MPılışışılışılıçılımıçıçılışıçıçıçıçıçılışıçıçıçıçıçımılılı MPımımıçıçılı MPılı MPılıılııılıılı MPılıılıııılıılı MPılıılı MPılı MPılıılılıılıılışımınımımını Article 2. We propose that the "35,000" in the joke be changed to "100,000." Engin Altay (Sinop) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0302par0241	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0300par0242	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0303par0243	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0300par0244	Sinop MP Engin Altay... Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0304par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Now, this is a wound, Congressman, Mr. President. The problem with non-assigned teachers is that Turkey has been bleeding for nearly nine or ten years. I've been talking to you about a situation in which families have become miserable, very tragic cases, and we haven't seen one step in power, one good intentional effort on this issue, but the government's discretion, the eyes are blind, the ears are deaf, and we have not seen it on various occasions every year, when the budget of the Ministry of National Education is being discussed, and the laws on national education are being discussed. But Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the head of the same government, promised Turkey, which I remember -- in Gaziantep, in Izmit, in Samsun, in Istanbul -- before the election in 2002 -- to Turkey, he said: "There will not be a teacher who will not be appointed in the PARTI power." I'm asking the government, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, did you or did you not make such a promise? You gave it to me, you gave it to me. You might say, I understand a lot: What if, brother, you can buy a teacher? No need, teacher.... It won't happen. So we hire every business college graduate, every law school graduate, every political faculty graduate? We're not taking it. There used to be an army of unemployed agricultural engineers in Turkey. They gave up hope, got themselves jobs, jobs in different areas of life, one way or another.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0305par0250	And now they're going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0304par0251	Now, in Turkey, you're giving Turkey the problem of non-committee teachers turning into a gangrene during your time in power, turning into a drama. I admit that 350,000 teachers are now waiting for the appointment in Turkey. In the motions of us and other opposition parties, hire 350,000 teachers. That's where the Department of National Education internal audit report stands. The Ministry of National Education's Internal Control Report says: "Maybe 130,000 -- he has changed this year, 120,000" -- the Ministry of Education needs teachers. The Prime Minister says: "In 12 years we took Turkey from here to here, we made Turkey's economy this far.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0306par0253	Right.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0304par0254	If you've done so much with the Turkish economy as the Prime Minister said, and there's a need for 120,000 teachers in the system, why don't you include these teachers in the system?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0306par0255	We bought 400,000 teachers.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0304par0256	You know, you grew up economically, the government is very strong, your safe is full of money, and you're able to lend money to the IMF, but the Ministry of National Education says I need 120,000 teachers. You say -- like the garden -- I'll take 35,000 this year. It's just -- I don't want to go too far, but it's political immorality. What if we raised Turkey this big, the government is strong, we have stamps. Don't say that, if you're walking these teachers on the street with stamps -- God knows what you're holding -- whatever you're fasting will be accepted as a prayer. Yes, I do believe it. Congressmans, at this time, we've had the drama of teachers selling their organs, their kidneys, and we've had the drama of the teacher who became a cop and died because he couldn't be a teacher. Don't you ever get hurt by that?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0307par0258	They used to exist.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0304par0259	To your consciences, the father of some of you is a teacher, and the teachers have sent us all here, a little respect for the teachers, a little loyalty to the teachers, a little humanity, that's what we want. Let's make this 100 grand. Your claim is that your government has no economic problems, Turkey has exceeded its economic problems. So, if you're willing to let 100,000 people go hungry and stay out in the open, I'll turn you over to the forgiveness of God, but I know he won't forgive you either. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0308par0263	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0309par0264	I will, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0310par0265	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0309par0266	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0310par0267	The speaker asked our government a question, and he gave a very good speech. If you'll excuse me, I'll answer in two sentences.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0309par0269	If you want your position, of course you can answer...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0310par0270	So it could be there or it could be here.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0309par0271	As you wish.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0311par0272	Are they taking it because of the bullying?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0310par0273	He wasn't teasing, he was asking questions.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0311par0274	Then you will answer the question.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0312par0275	Yes, of course, if you'd care to give me a quick answer, please.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0310par0276	Sir, Mr. Republican People's Party Deputy President and our friend who signed the motion...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0311par0277	Unregistered.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0310par0278	...he gave an ironic speech. This is a message, and we have friends who are ready to receive it on the Internet or on other blocks. We have young people who have the right to appoint themselves teachers, who accept it as an acquish, who are older, but Mr. Altay should know that during our administration, 417,000 teachers were appointed. If the current number of teachers was 800,000, only 12 years in our time, 55 percent of them were appointed.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0313par0279	How much are the pensioners?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0310par0280	He's retired, about 100,000. My dear brothers, in the time of any republic government, there has been no such appointment as a teacher. It's one.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0313par0282	There weren't that many students.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0310par0283	This year, 10,000 teachers were appointed in February; and now, if 5,000 are accepted from the budget and 35,000 from your valuable votes, 40,000 will be appointed. In 2014, 50,000 of our teachers will be appointed. Congratulations. Congratulations.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0314par0285	Thank you, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0315par0286	Mr. President, what the Deputy Prime Minister says is true, 417,000 teachers have been appointed during their rule period, 12 years. If you hit average, it'll be 30 grand. Which is normal, given the increase in population and student populations in Turkey, the decline in elementary school to 5 percent, and so on. There's nothing special about that, nothing special about that. In addition, let the Prime Minister answer -- there are no numbers in front of him, not in front of him, not in front of me -- the number of teachers who left the system through retirement during this period of power has increased greatly compared to the previous governments. An average of 400,000 teachers are already in the system every ten years during each ruling period. To answer, Mr. Arinc: Did Turkey or did it not promise Turkey in 2002? I want an answer to that.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0316par0287	The Prime Minister's commitments have been exposed for 12 years.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0314par0288	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 74 of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal, we propose and propose that "35,000" be changed to "119102" and "35,000" on the list of "Ekli (3)." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0317par0296	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0314par0297	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0318par0298	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0314par0299	I'm having it read. With this arrangement, the National Ministry of Education Law and the relevant KHK also employ 35,000 teachers to be employed by the Ministry of National Education. As with every election period, the Justice and Development Party, prior to the presidential election, plans to manage the public perception with a pragmatic approach, in response to public expectations, even after some major tax pardons, or after the Soma disaster. It is also clear that the Justice and Development Party is not sincere. Because in the ten years since the Justice and Development Party was in power, the number of non-assigned teachers has grown dramatically and has now reached 350,000. Every year, tens of thousands of teachers are waiting for the appointment, while tens of thousands are forced to be paid teachers to earn their bread, and they are under-insuranced and have to work with very low fees, such as $300-600, unsecured, and in this bag, it's a very clear excuse to erase the debt of the investors and commit 35,000 jobs. During the ruling period of the Justice and Development Party, since 2007 alone, dozens of teachers have committed suicide because they could not be appointed and were unemployed. Even this painting is a manifestation of a sense of death for teachers. The Justice and Development Party government is a teacher's staff requirement in this article; the number of teachers that education unions have explained is a number that even contradicts the teacher's deficit that they have explained themselves. Moreover, these assigned staffs are seen as favours and are reflected in the public opinion as well as in the waiting teachers. With this proposal, the ministry's norm updates have aimed at resolving its teaching deficit and solving a significant number of non-assigned teachers. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes on Articles (1), (2): those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, it's based on article 74 (3). We'll discuss the joke. There are three proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "university" be changed to "universities" in the lists of 8" and "8" for use at Sakarya University, and "8" in the third joke of the 639th Article of the current Law Bill, and "9" to be used. Nurettin Canikli Ayhan Seferün İsmail Tamer Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mehmet Altay Recep Special Look, Hasan Ali Çelik. Ali Ihsan Yavuz Şaban Tooth Ramadan Can Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Kemalettin Yilmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural [[8 INTERVIEW]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel; İstanbul MP İzzet Celan; Ankara MP Sena Kala; Ankara MP İzkat Köçalı; Ankara MP Sakılı and İstanbul MP İncın Akça; Mehmet Çağal; İstanbul MP İsakı and İstanbul MP İsakı MP İsakı MP İncı MP İncın; Mehmet Köçı; İstanbul MP İsımın İsın Başçı MP İçı MP İncı; Mehmet Köçııı MP İçın Başçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; Mehmet Kıçıçıçıçıçıçı MP İçı; Mehmet Köçıçıçıçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İsı MPı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıı MPılııııııııııılıılıılıılımılıılıılı MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılımıçıçı MPı MPıçıçı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MP İçı MP İsı MP İsıçı MP İçı MPı MP İsıçıı MPılımılımılışılı MPı MPılışı MPılışışılışılıçılımıçıçılışıçıçıçıçıçılışıçıçıçıçıçımılılı MPımımıçıçılı MPılı MPılıılııılıılı MPılıılıııılıılı MPılıılı MPılı MPılıılılıılıılışımınımımını Haydar Akar Ahmet Toptaş "In addition to being used at the University of Afyon Kobytepe (8), the staff of professors on the list has been excluded from the section of Law No. 78, which has been added to the relevant university's section (9) and is dated 4/7/2012 and is remembered by the 6/54 article of Law. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0319par0340	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0314par0341	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0320par0342	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0314par0343	Afyonkarahisar MP Ahmet Toptaş... Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0321par0346	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group following the amendment motion on the number 639th Amendment to the underlying Law Bill. My respects to the High Council. But before I propose this amendment, I'd like to say a few words about the motion that was just rejected. Dear friends, you meet and we meet, the market, the market, the road, wherever we go, there's always an unappointed teacher drama. Three hundred and fifty thousand people, 30 years old, 35 years old, who we had in college to teach, who we didn't allow to do any other work, who were raised with that ideal as a teacher, are wandering the streets. In Turkey, where you say you've solved all your problems, that we've become one of the most developed countries in the world, the drama of these people, suicides, not being able to get married, the depression of unemployment is very common. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, he's giving us the numbers, 400,000 teachers have been taken. Friends, you used $1.6 trillion in your time in power. When we asked, we made the road. Well, if you hadn't, teacher... if you hadn't, then we would have closed the schools. Please, let's think a little bit about conscience, compassion, and the truth of society, and let's give these people jobs. In our schools, the classrooms don't have teachers. According to national training documents, there are around 130,000 teachers needed. There's nothing to stop it, since our economy is so good, the way to save these teachers from their own problems on the street, their families from their own problems is to assign them and provide jobs. Dear friends, as for our amendment proposal, on July 12, 2012, the 6th Amendment of Law 6354 was given 250 new positions at the University of Afyon Kobytepe. The third article of the draft bag bill, which has been discussed today, is again given 250 positions, while 250 staffs, given in Law 6354, are cancelled. So, with our motion, we would like to ask that Afyon Kobytepe University be granted a pre-approved cancellation of the staff that was cancelled by this bag of laws, and that the same Afyon Kobytepe University be assigned to the same Afyon Kobtepe University, which was previously recruited by 69 people. Dear friends, the positions that have been given to the university and cancelled by this law are 10 dentists, 4 pharmacists, 10 medical secretaries, 10 X-ray technicians, 10 lab technicians, odiometrist 1, technician 12, technician 2, staff 6 and radiator 4. You've given me these before. By canceling these, don't deprive this university of these positions, that's what we want. The University of Koppatepe is seriously in need of support. We need serious support, especially in terms of the teaching staff. When we look at universities in the neighbouring provinces of Afyon, there are 205 professors at Aydın Menderes University, 184 professors at Celal Bayar University, 134 professors at Pamukkale University, 248 professors at Süleyman Demirel University, 86 professors at Afyonkarahisar.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0322par0353	How many students does he have?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0321par0354	He has 35,000 students.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0322par0355	He has 65 thousand disciples, Solomon Demirel. 65 thousand.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0321par0356	Then do not give them, but close them, and send them to Solomon Demirel.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0322par0357	Compare the number of students.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0321par0358	Dear friends, there are 89 professors of medicine at Süleyman Demirel University, 15 professors of medicine at the University of Kobyon Koppe.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0322par0359	Don't jinx it.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0321par0360	Over 100 professors have left the university in Afyon. Kocatepe University is one of Turkey's most important developmental universities, which needs support. We don't want it to be in other universities, we don't call it much, it's not enough, there's got to be more of them.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0322par0361	You know, you're starting to talk nice.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0321par0362	Then you'll listen. But 86 professors at the University of Afyon with 35,000 students, teaching 35,000 students, if you think that's enough, that's your appreciation. Dear friends, Afyon Kocatepe University is losing blood all the time. A law school opened; last year there were four lecturers, and this year it went up to six. So if it's possible to continue a law school with six people, go ahead. Other than that, there are other things going on, guys. There are no more professors at the University of Kocatepe Medical School. The oncology department opens up on one side, other parts open up on the other, but the professors run away, the professors run away. And I'll tell you the reasons for that in another speech because I'm out of time, it's important. I'd like to offer all of you some respect, and I'd like my motion to be supported.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0323par0368	Thank you, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0324par0371	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0323par0372	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Kalkavan, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Çam, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Köse, Mr. Özsüşmiş, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Bay Bayraktutan, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Keskin, Mr. Akshi. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0325par0384	Mr. Bayram, you're reading it wrong. Mr. President, he's reading wrong, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0326par0386	It's 2/2032. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] 2/2041, 2/2051, 2/2056, 2/2057, 2/2065, 2/2069, 2/2083, 2/2146, 2/2156, 2/2158, 2/2176, 2/2178, 2/2186, 2/2187, 2/2190, 2/2192, 2/2192, 2/219, 2/219, 2/246, Ekli (8). Kemalettin Yilmaz Muharrem Varlı Oktay Vural
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0327par0396	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0328par0397	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0327par0398	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0329par0399	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0327par0400	Mr. Kemalettin Yilmaz, come in, sir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0330par0403	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the amendment proposal on the 74th amendment to the 74th Amendment in the bag of law we're trying to remove. I salute you all. I'd like to share a footnote in the beginning: while 350,000 teachers are waiting for the appointment, although there are 8,500 norms in my district of Afyon, there are around 2,200 teachers in our province, and unfortunately there are about 1,370 school deficits. Dear lawmakers, our Afyon Kocappe University, which has long been severely lacking in staff, has not been developed as requested, which is to stop the university from being a preferable university by students. The University of Kobyon is one of the 21 universities and 2 high-tech institutes founded in 1992. When universities in our region are examined for the number of professors they have, it is clear that our Afyon Koppe University is clearly not where it deserves to be. This is not in line with the geopolitical position and economic potential of the province of Afyonkarahisar. Afyonkarahisar, unfortunately, is a sign of immigration to other universities. The geopolitical position of the cities of other universities in comparison is no better than the location of Afyonkarahisar (Afyonkarahisar). All of these universities have also been established, so let's take a look at the number of valued lawmakers and professors, and the speaker before me pointed, and it's good to repeat these numbers. Today, the number of professors at our Afyon Kocatepe University is 86. The number of professors at Adnan Menderes University is 205, the number of professors at Celal Bayar University is 185, and the number of professors at Denizli Pamukkale University is 143, and the number of professors at Isparta Süleyman Demirel University is 243. You see this painting, on behalf of the University of Afyon Koppe, is pathetic, valuable MPs. These years of neglect have to be repaired. The AKP, which has been in power for 12 years, has added 1 staff request for the University of Afyon Kocappe in 2012 and has added it to the law, which, unfortunately, has not been used for two years. Dear lawmakers, no matter how many buildings, equipment, labs, if we open thousands of student quotas, as long as there's no faculty, they're all empty. Recently, a ranking of colleges has been published in the press, valued lawmakers, my eyes have searched the University of Afyon Kobype, but I've been able to find it recently. Our university is ranked 46, from the 50 universities that TÜBITAK has evaluated. According to URAP reports, the Institute of Informatics at Middle East Technical University ranked 50 percent among the public universities, and 60 percent among all universities. I never tell you the order of the world because there was no trace of it in the records. The development of the province of Afyonkarahisar (Afyonkarahisar) is clearly inadequate for our university to be ranked in scientific ranks, TÜBITAK lists, and the best universities list. This bag is also a fact of lack of staff committed by law, valued lawmakers. With this amendment proposal, we've submitted a motion to change the number of 22 assistant professors, who have been committed to 40/5 of the staff of professors, to 30, to 40, to 40, to 40, to 40, to the number of 20 professors who have been charged, with the number of eight research officers with a position of four, to 25, and 15 staff officers with a degree of five, who have been committed to 40. Dear lawmakers, at every opportunity, the rest of the Afyon are details. I call on AKP MPs who say "Afyon" and turn Afyon (Afyon) into a pool of good news, and Mr. Forest and Water Minister, to support the development of Afyon Koppe University, to solve the staff issue of the University of Koppe. Come to make up for many of your unresolved good news, support these suggestions, and give them true and good news. Good news for the holidays, Mr. Secretary. Remember, it is your greatest duty to support these changes to the development of Afyon. You also have the responsibility of professors, professors, academic staffs who have been waiting for these positions for years. If you don't back me up, it's my duty to remind you that when you take the word "Afyon" and "University" into your mouth, it's my duty to come forward. Now, Afyon wants you to show your sincerity for the staff that our university needs, and I expect you to support our amendment proposal, and I salute your grand delegation, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0331par0417	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0332par0418	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0331par0419	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "university" be changed to "universities" in the lists of 8" and "8" for use at Sakarya University, and "8" in the third joke of the 639th Article of the current Law Bill, and "9" to be used. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0333par0429	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0331par0430	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0334par0431	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit10spe0331par0432	Motive... It is intended to provide academic staff needs for the university, especially recently established by the Law, Business, Computer and Information Sciences, Communication, Political Information, Dental Medicine Institutes, Education Sciences and Health Sciences Institutes, Cropınar Tourism University of applied sciences, University of Arts, Kaynar Applied Sciences and University of Foreign Languages, as academic staffs. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the number (3) of Article 74, which is based on Article 74: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Thus, the vote of substances in the third section is complete. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0331par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. We're moving on to chapter four. Chapter 4 contains articles 75 to 101. On behalf of groups on the department, Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak first on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0335par0008	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the fourth part of the Law bill on the amendments to Article 639 of the Law and Law. I salute the General Assembly. The 91st article in the fourth part of the bill relates to issues related to the control of water structures which the Constitutional Court has cancelled, and regulates the legislation in detail. Dear lawmakers, as an energy policy, the approach to building and drawing energy from here through HES through water resources has produced a huge environmental and sociological damage, and these destructions continue. The HES policy is an energy approach that must be rejected as a result of its destructiveness, even though the issues of control of these structures are mentioned in the matter. This clause involves once again legitimizing HESEs in terms of legislation, not a reverse energy approach based on HES. Dear lawmakers have been presented by scientific studies that have shown that HESEs do not have a sustainable energy policy for nature and human beings. HESEs are a small number of projects that will not even have a ten per cent share in Turkey's need for electricity. In the event of measures aimed at energy efficiency, there is also a 20 per cent savings rate of electricity consumption, which means that there will be 20 per cent less energy for the same production and living standard in vocational rooms and studies conducted by experts. Precious lawmakers want to continue by deepening the economic approach of the bill, which is based on its Rant-based and maximum profit, with Article 93 of the bill. This material predicts that long-term development plans or management plans can be carried out, regardless of the requirements for building structures and facilities to combat forest protection and fire -- for areas such as sanctuary, urban forest, national park, or forest regimes -- and structures to meet the essential needs of visitors and visitors. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, many areas that are banned from building and building today have been sacrificed to structures and Rant fields, which the government himself condones illegally and unofficially. With this law, the government plans to clear its illegal and illegitimate activities and to open new ground spaces to capital groups and individuals. In the name of protection of forests and the fight against fires, it is intended to open the way for unstructed construction in forest areas under its cover. Such an arrangement is unacceptable. Dear lawmakers, the 97th article of the bill removes the authority of the Turkish Bar Association to impose or perform another regulatory procedure on the application of an internship, the adoption of an internship, and the adoption of a lawyer's profession. The Association of Bars is a professional institution with a public legal personality and has the authority to adopt regulations within its mandate, according to Article 124 of the Constitution. However, this arrangement is aimed at dismantling this authority from the Bar Association and an application aimed at defunctioning the Bar Association. This is the case in Article 124 of the Constitution, which states that the Prime Minister's office, the ministries, and the public regulations concerned with its own areas, can establish regulations in order to ensure the implementation of laws and regulations that are not in violation of them. There is a clear discrepancy in the provisions of the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, many vocational rooms, such as the Association of Oathed Financial Advisors, also have a public legal personality and conduct examinations on entering the profession. The critical point here is that the opinion of the relevant professional room, which has a public legal personality, is not based on a vocational arrangement, but rather on the fact that the study room has to be limited to its employment decisions, and in this context it is asked to be dysfunctional by the legal hand of its profession. Dear lawmakers, the provision the government wants to make in Article 43 of the National Education Basic Law, under Article 98 of the bill, is meant to reduce the rights and abolition of its rights for education workers. With this arrangement, the government first prepares the legal basis for the mandatory rotation practice for teachers that it has wanted to do for years. This practice will cause serious economic and social problems and will create many new victims. Mr. President, the quality of education and the motivation of the teacher will be reduced by the fact that the teacher has been removed from her student and her own habitat by force for miles and miles. With this arrangement, the victims of the spouseship, health and education situation of teachers who have failed in the legislation on current teaching appointments will be deepened, adding new ones to thousands of teachers who have already broken family integrity. The rule of rotation, which is not defined by the law, is intended to be placed on the initiative of executives with an uncertain regulation to be carried out afterwards. In this way, the government will use rotation authority as a means of new pressure in line with ideological and political staffing policies and will be able to impose permanent exile on all opposing educational workers. Dear lawmakers, with this planned arrangement, the government will be able to appoint teachers directly when it wants to disable the OSYM. In Turkey, where there are hundreds of thousands of non-assigned teachers, the AK PARTI power deepens the problem where it will solve it. With this arrangement, the government strives to leave teaching assignments to its bureaucrats by violating principles of integrity, neutrality, objectiveness, unlawfully. Dear lawmakers, the 100th article of the bill contains regulations that would mean ignoring the rule of law in Turkey's Constitution and making fun of universal law norms. With this clause, the legal deadline for the dismissal of public officials, dismissal, termination, transfer of office, or transfer of power, relocation, relocation of office and title changes has been extended from 30 days to two years, with the court's decision to halt the cancellation and execution. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, are entitled to a fair trial by prosecution or defendant, in Article 36 of the Constitution, with the use of means and means. In Article 125 of the Constitution, the judiciary is clear against all actions and procedures of the administration. It is based on the basis that the operations of the administration cannot be excluded from the judiciary. Mr. President, in the event that the matter is adopted, it would be pointless for public officials to appeal to the courts, whose objections would not be reached by court decisions as soon as possible, which would further increase the arbitrary practices of the administrators. On the grounds of the Article, the case is clearly mentioned, and the verdict has been made that there will be no criminal investigation or prosecution to exempt those who carry out the following application from prosecution. Dear lawmakers, we are facing an initiative where democracy has been damaged, social dialogue has been destroyed, civil service has been destroyed, public service has been turned into a government service, a government official is wanted to become a government official. Law is not a means or means for power to justify what it does. Therefore, with the latest scraps of judicial independence, this clause, which is intended to eliminate the state of law and legal security, must be withdrawn immediately. After expressing these thoughts, I salute you all again with respect and love. I wish you good night.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0336par0032	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Denizli MP Adnan Keskin. Here you go, Mr. Keskin.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0337par0036	Mr. President, I would like to express my opinion on the Republican People's Party Group's bag bill. I salute all of you. Democracy, in a sense, is the regime of legitimacy of opponents, minorities; a compromise is a school of tolerance; and those who are opposed to it, their rights, their freedoms. Those who reduce the source of democracy to the election process cause democracy to be corrupted by its law, justice, freedom, separation of forces, and the ability to guarantee the minority. They sow hatred, hatred, hostility, discrimination, blinding people's feelings of justice, justice, right, tolerance, by taking the comforts of winning the election, saying, "We are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones. As partners to the congregations, as part of the cults, we had to live once again with the articles added to the bag of legislation in the Plan and Budget Commission talks, eradication of society's historical symbols of independence and honor and negative implementation of democracy's lame, false interpretation. The bill, which came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as 60 articles, reached 150 articles, regardless of the opposition's warnings, proposals, suggestion, and criticism. With unconnected arrangements coming together, the bag was turned into a soup bill. In addition to non-law-making techniques, concessions were granted to the Constitution, to those who held the top point of order, to take support of different communities due to the presidential election, and to those who were opposed to the rule of law, to those who were ordered off the record, not in line with the fight against black money, and were placed in the safe pardon bag, known in public as the article "Riza Zarrab." For those who can't account for their money, a letter of cuteness was written, a visa was given to the subcontractor system, and the demands of building a living room in the furnaces were blocked with ears, extinguished with expectations and hopes. The municipalities under political authorities have been given projects such as cable cars, bridges, which they will do by violating the right of property of the citizens, which have turned public services and production units into thornless rose gardens of the republic's 90-year savings and managed to prevent the implementation of judicial decisions that cancel their sales to supporters. The immovable allocations of municipalities to the foundations have been legalized. Honourable lawmakers are obliged to obey the Constitution, the universal principles of law, laws and judicial decisions in the state of law. If this principle is inadmissible, contradictions, inconsistencies become the frontline; injustice, injustice, lawlessness, violence, your policy method; arrogance, anger, insult is your policy style. In modern-day Turkey, there is a struggle between bodies and institutions using public power, for failing to comply with the universal principles of law, for making constitutional violation an integral part of our daily lives. Security forces are not fulfilling the decisions of the judiciary, the administration is trying to undermine the judiciary, and the judiciary is lynching justice by accepting slanders as evidence, lies as truth, the press is acting as a platoon for power; the political government, the address of injustice, injustice and unlawfulness, is bringing new dimensions to the crisis, with dangerous attempts to sail into the open sea, such as the captain. Yesterday, we open the way of the prosecution. We are the representatives of a new moral and freedom. We will remove the custody of tens of thousands of people who have decided their lives, who have led them to death. Because they don't think like themselves, innocent people who were thrown into prisons for decrypting the congregation, we're fighting a coup, a coup attempt, and it appears today that innocent people have been convicted as well as real suspects. They have established a parallel state, and we will enter the den of that false prophet. We're gonna get the government out of the community's cops, judges, prosecutors. As we do so, forgive us, forgive us. We are watching the witch hunts of those who call it inconsistencies, contradictions, which they have created, the state crisis they have created. It's not regret, it's regret, it's the purpose of the people to shed crocodile tears, to cry in the dead eye, to be in the wedding house, to mourn in the dead house, to deceive society. The interesting thing about being put on trial about the negativity of the security forces is that they're all exhibited after December 17, 25th. On December 17, 25th, when the arrows turned to the ruling members and hid money in the shoeboxes, there were millions of dollars in the cash boxes in the bedrooms, I distributed it, I stayed 30 million euros, I'm going to buy housing with it. When the statement was reflected in the public, some of them began to cry out as though it had been printed on some of them, the great Islamic scholar also gained an open sense of moralism. According to this understanding, the general manager who hid large amounts of money in shoe boxes in his dwelling should have been rewarded, guarding the money collected to build an imam-gap school. Security forces, prosecutors, judges, were to be punished, the Commission established in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be prevented, calling corruption allegations a coup attempt, and justice should be eliminated. Dear MPs, the bill of the bag has been violated in addition to the Commission and different provisions of the Constitution. They must be outlawed. History blinds your eyes first, then leads you to injustice by violating justice and law. I hope our Parliament doesn't end up like this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0338par0043	Thank you, Mr. Keskin. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bitlis MP Vedat Demiröz. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0047	My dear President, my esteemed fellow lawmakers, my respects to all of you. I am one of you who may have done as much work as you did in Law 639, where we meet -- to make changes to certain Laws and Laws. I've been president of the Subcommittee.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0340par0049	You tortured us, torture us!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0050	More or less today we've been struggling with this law for the 50th day. I think it's a very valuable text, and perhaps one of the laws that will go down in the history of the Great National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0341par0051	It's because of you that it's so thick!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0340par0052	You made us vomit blood on the subcommittee, blood!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0053	He's making arrangements in 45 laws, and every clause, with your contribution, with the power's contribution, really concerns millions.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0342par0054	This record can't be broken!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0055	We've just discussed the 74th Amendment. 40,000 teachers' staff, 35,000 appointments. I mean, it's about 35,000 families and their families, along with the marriage of young people.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0343par0056	Why not 100 grand?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0344par0057	What's the need, what's the need?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0058	A BUG-KUR or income tax, municipal pardons or configurations, these are things that cost public opinion and concern the large spectrum of society. Before I begin, I'd like to thank my fellow bureaucrats at the ministry, my friends at the commissions, all the opposition and the power of the General Assembly, on behalf of the entire nation.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0345par0060	We thank you, too.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0061	Yes, we've all talked, we've all done it, we've been talking, we've been doing it, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been doing it, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking. It's in this department, too. In this chapter, we have two items related to the two dwellings that will only be given to the relatives of the martyrs in Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0346par0062	You're giving it to me, Birth Holdings is giving it to me!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0063	Be patient, I'll tell you, of course they are, it's not a commercial, God bless you. 301 of them are made by the Birth Holdings, and they're going to hand them over by choice.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0346par0064	What's the catch?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0065	301 of the Gaziantep Organised Industrial Region will be co-founded and delivered by TOKI by lottery through its financing. God bless them all. Are they too much? It's not. We're tired of repeating them over and over again, their rights.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0347par0066	Tell Beşiktaş City Hall, Beşiktaş Municipality...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0067	Besides, the law has given many rights to subcontractors except Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0348par0068	You've spread subcontractor work.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0069	So it was discussed here. I'll tell you what I'm thinking: the working hours are up to three years...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0348par0070	I feel like you've given me your bond!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0071	They've been granted severance, unionization, overtime, fees...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0348par0072	You sentenced all employees to minimum wage.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0073	...has been guaranteed by the chief, the main employer, who has given me the stones. So there's been various rights to subcontractors. The main job was to put the staff on the line from now on. Other than that, there's tax configuration, social security configuration, municipal debt, customs debts, rooms, shop rooms, and TOBB configurations that concern most of society. I mean, it wouldn't be fair to draw them in a pen, to call them empty. I'll brief you on the tax reconstruction. Tax-related main money, delay interest or delay increase are being removed.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0349par0076	You tell me about them. What will you do with the worker, the labourer, the poor man?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0077	According to the domestic HFE, this tax debt is now being transferred from the principal money to the period of the law's release.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0349par0078	How many times have we done this, how many times!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0079	What's a domestic HFE? In the past years, there were sometimes 2, 3, 5, but in fact, in 2014, they had an annual number dating back to the 11-12, in December 2014. So far, these numbers, they've been calculated, and if they're paid from time to time, we don't put anything on that number, we don't collect tardiness interest, we don't collect delay increases. No, if it's three months, six months, a year or 18... it's a year, 36 months. In installments: 3 in installments, 6 in installments, 9 in installments, 12 in installments or 18 in installments, each payment will be paid every 2 months. According to this, we're putting a time difference on it again, and we're charging it by instalment. They have a deadline, it's in the law. Applications will be made to the municipality or to the relevant tax office.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0349par0080	They know it, they're professionals, you do it every year! Forgiveness, pardon, pardon!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0339par0081	The added value, income tax, institutional tax, EVT, motor vehicle tax, is being structured, including economies entering 6183. It's just that some tax fines haven't been lifted. It's in my heart... since there's a configuration like this, I thought it would be in my best interest to remove the tax-payment fines from Mr. Hussein Şahin.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0349par0082	That's the IRS' job. What did the Finance Minister say up there?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0350par0083	He said, "I'm against forgiveness."
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0349par0084	What did the Finance Minister say up there? He doesn't think like you do.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0351par0085	Social Security Agency is also being set up in parallel with this. Over there, we give 50% off to debtors of BUG-KUR, those who are never tied to administrative fines related to other insurance, and we collect the remaining 50%.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0349par0086	The Minister of Finance doesn't say it like you do.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0352par0087	The Social Security Agency said there's parallel configuration!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0351par0088	We're building customs taxes. We're compiling room fees. In the rooms, we're compiling the debts of financial advisors, sworn advisors, rooms. The troops, the tradesman's own room, and the rooms' debts to their troops, to their superior troops.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0353par0090	Agricultural irrigation, agricultural irrigation...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0351par0091	It concerns a very large scope.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0354par0092	Talk to the AK PARTY desks, Mayor. They're not listening.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0351par0093	There's more people here, so they can find out. You already know. I mean, here in society, believe it or not...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0355par0095	What's with the farmer?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0356par0096	There's parallel construction in the SGK!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0357par0097	What's left for retirement?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0358par0098	Congressmans, please, listen carefully.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0359par0099	...you called us on the commissions when this law was discussed, sir, and you said, "Captain, we laughed at all of this, and we gave you our hand again, and we gave you our heart.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0357par0100	There's still the head!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0359par0101	And we'll always be together, I hope. How many more bags of law...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0360par0103	They don't learn, they just scream.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0361par0104	What's with the farmer, the farmer?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0362par0105	The Kavas have been recruited.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0363par0106	Friends, there are 5 million vehicles about motor vehicles that are mentioned if they haven't been examined.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0364par0107	They say you didn't pay your debts, you took it out for your own!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0365par0108	Why don't they do it, Mr. Vedat? Why?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0366par0109	Guys, we're listening!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0367par0110	We're giving you five million vehicles to build, and we're giving you time to examine them.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0365par0111	They can't pay taxes, they can't get an exam, they don't have a property tax...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0367par0112	We remove the times, the 5 per cent per month, and we carry the part so far according to domestic HFE.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0368par0113	Tell me if you owe me taxes or not.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0367par0114	After that, only one per cent of the year's work is required to be done by the end of the year.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0369par0115	We can't water the cotton.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0367par0116	By the end of the year, hopefully, we'll get 5 million car owners to do their examinations.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0370par0117	Do they all add up as much as Genghis... who makes the nation!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0371par0118	Have you had your vehicles examined?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0367par0119	Friends, look, with your contribution here, in this department, especially...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0372par0120	What's with the farmer?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0371par0121	What do we have here for farmers?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0367par0122	...for example, we have a 100th amendment to administrative judgment. Today, there's a separation of forces.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0371par0123	Is there really?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0373par0124	Where? The whole force is one person!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0367par0125	The law will not interfere with the judiciary, the administration will not interfere with the judiciary, but the judiciary cannot interfere with the administration. Over there, we've got the rulings from the government courts. I mean, there's no point in reading them one by one, we've given them to you over time.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0371par0126	You're out of time, talk, talk.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0367par0127	Look, Eskişehir 1. Management Court, Sakarya 1. The Supreme Court has made decisions by entering the field of execution. If we can't live, this is the biggest organ, we don't let anyone into our space, we make the necessary decision, and we do it accordingly.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0374par0129	But you're making a judgment call! You're in the jurisdiction!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0367par0130	This doesn't concern all officers like this, just the top 5,152 people, 8,461 people with the municipalities.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0374par0131	No...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0375par0132	Safety?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0376par0133	Safety? How many are there? 270,000 people are secure.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0377par0134	With the police and the gendarmes, it's usually the police's business.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0376par0135	Mr. Vedat, tell me the truth.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0378par0136	317 grand total.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0377par0137	259,000 people are involved in the police, 50,000 in the gendarmes are concerned with 317,911 people.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0376par0138	What else? Mashallah!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0377par0139	I mean, 10 million employees like that, I don't care.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0379par0140	I swear to God, I'm gonna vote for the AKP!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0377par0141	I've got my heart set on it. I'm running out of time. We must make a law on ice cream in the days ahead. We need to erase BUG-KURL's bonus days and erase his working hours. I couldn't get into the safe. It's really not enough, you didn't let me talk.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0380par0143	You've already forgiven the safes!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0377par0144	Matrah increase is required, along with the vault, in my opinion, inventory forgiveness, ironhead forgiveness, conflicting taxes must be placed.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0380par0145	Why, is there a pool media? Harmless media or money transferred to illegal media?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0377par0146	But I didn't have time for that, and hopefully, as soon as the stuff comes in, I'll explain it to you. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Thank you, all of you, and thank you for your hard work, for the good of our society, for all 76 million.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0381par0150	Thank you, Mr. Irony. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Sakarya MP Münir Kutluata. You have a request on your behalf, and I will unite them and give you your word. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0382par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the fourth chapter of the basic legal and bag-shaped Bill of Law, 639 rows. I salute the High Council. There's no name on the cover of this bill, no name on it. As you can see, his name starts inside, and he goes on for exactly five pages, something you all know. It takes ten minutes to read. It begins as a freak, its purpose and its law enforcement process. This bill is the continuation of the previous ones, and it carries all the signs of going from the state of law to the tribal state. What does this law bring? Not only does it come as a bag, it's brought in as a basic law. When you look at what's at the bottom of it, you see, at first glance, the grins are as follows: The problems of criminal bureaucrats are being solved. I'm not saying a criminal, if you'll notice, the problems of bureaucrats who have been charged with crime by the power are being solved, so the trial is being cut off. Now that there's a higher authority running the crime, he's bailing it out, and he's working it out. He's correcting the accounts of businessmen who pay big bribes to power. ▪ He makes legal cover for the division between those who appear to have bought public goods that are being looted under the name Privatisation. Bag laws are used to wipe out the trail of old corruption and lay the groundwork for new ones and open the way. At the same time, it's brought into basic law so it can't be understood what matter is for whom and what event it's been put into place. In addition to this law, some laws made by the government appear to serve the closure of every ciccercin, which has been uncovered by the separation from the state of law. One of the big odds about the bill is that it's hidden behind the Soma disaster. There are, of course, substances in the law that address the problems of some of our citizens, but it's clear that these materials are basically fronts, that the main objective is the calculations of power. If it were, they'd be brought in separately, joined together and solved here. Dear lawmakers, let's remember what the Soma disaster was. No one calls it a soma accident, everyone says it's a soma disaster. The Soma disaster was a booming extension of the corrupt and looting system established by the power of the Soma coal mine. So, a corruption vein exploded over the coal vessels, cost our 301 lives, the lives of 301 families and the future of the future. The way the furnace was handed over, the way it worked, the way it worked, the interest in power for the furnace and its bosses before the accident, the fire after the accident, and the power praise for its bosses in all its nudity. The miners' spending on the security of the mine and on the safety of the business security has come to be believed to be for representatives of the corruption scheme. As corruption and bribery surround the country, as it emerges from 17 December 25 December 2013, where state levels have reached, the despair of society is increasing day by day. As a result of the Soma disaster, it is not for the consciences to accept that the law of laundering corruption is behind this tragedy, while maintaining its freshness in memory as one of the more desperate outcomes. This bill has kept the Plan and Budget Commission busy for five weeks, and it seems to keep the Assembly General Assembly busy for at least four weeks. Corruption that exploded yesterday in the Soma mine has now exploded at the base of the jump towers in Palandöken, and many small and large incidents continue to explode every day. We'll see if it's possible to cover all this with a bag of laws. Precious lawmakers have been constantly playing with the laws, while the competition system in the Turkish economy has been turned upside down by constantly changing the Law on Dealing, which has changed the Law on Deal, which has changed it 32 times, has changed its legal code of conduct, has reached 160. On the other hand, we're facing a constant financial amnesty. Eight times in 12 years, it takes an average of a year and a half to bring in a large, small pardon. None of this happens in a decent country and in a decent economy. If the economy is properly managed, the decent businessman and the shopkeepers will not be able to pay their taxes, nor will they expect forgiveness. One of the biggest impacts this government has taken on the economy is the disruption of the competitive environment and the removal of the businessman from production. In a country run by market economy, contractors are very important: it's the one who makes the production, it's the one who employs, it's the one who pursues innovation because it produces competitive conditions, it's the one who provides technological improvements, it's the one who provides funding, it's the one who makes scientific improvements, it's the one who contributes to the field, and it's the one who pays the tax. And if these places fall into the dirty hands of corruption, the whole system collapses, and that's what's happening in Turkey. We're dealing with a painting that's been eliminated by an industrial and honest businessman who's become the main element of the economy in the form of a corrupt and corrupt business partner who's been robbed of money from power. Competitive system is broken, institutions are running from production. The industrialist sells his factory to strangers. We know about businessmen and industrialists who are trying to protect themselves by selling their factory and taking refuge in the construction industry under the wing of power. The economic decay, the dissolution, the internal and external political situation is clouded, and the public is not aware of what is happening as it should be. The fact that power is disrupting the competitive environment is literally ruining the economy. Outside of its own rules, the administration of the economy based on the expectations of its ruling and supporters has transformed the free market economy into a guided economy, even the Prime Minister has determined the interest. With guided interest operations, hot and illegal moneyholders have started hoarding large fortunes within a day. The escape from production has prevented economic growth from becoming economic development. Economic development in the country, which is trying to grow at a low rate, has stopped, and social development aside, social decline and decay have begun. Corruption in all areas is based on the fact that corruption and bribery are being developed by the power of the environment. Dear lawmakers, as a complement of this process, are also making arrangements for the privatisation of this power. This bill prevents the return of public goods, which has been illegally looted under the name "specialization" and prevents the extradition of public goods as a result of corruption determined by court decisions. In short, the legal provisions for legal corruption are continuing. I'd like to give you just three examples of the questionable privatisations, valuable MPs. One of them was: the amount of 3/3/2005 of TUPRASH was to be sold in a hotel room by the Minister of Finance at the time. Then this sale was cancelled, and it was seen that $750 million in damage was involved, so there was $750 million in corruption. Second: The sale of the Balıkesir SECA factory to a family-friendly company for $1.1 million was a matter of the court's appreciation of $51m. These processes, which are worth 50 to 10 in contrast to one, were determined by court decisions, but none of the court decisions were carried out, such as the sale given to a member of the family in SECA, were immediately cut off by the 6300th Law, which was cancelled by the court. Third: This is the issue of Sejdişehir Etimi aluminum, which is often brought up on the basis of the law. This company, which was valued at least $4 billion, was given to a company for $305 million, was also cancelled by the court's decision to add electricity dams and ports to all of the mining sites, factories, and movers, but was prevented by the government. What's interesting here is that the owner of this company, who has been given this company, has recently appeared before us again as a bribe partner in power, and has made it very clear to us how this looting and division is being brought to power by false blasphemy. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, an additional reminder to add to these examples will be a source of remorse. This happened after these examples and all privatisations, but during the 2014 budget talks, Mr. Prime Minister said that on December 10, 2013... Can we stop this conversation, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0383par0168	You've been yelling all along, no one's talking.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0384par0169	Excuse me...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0382par0170	How did you say it? Say it again. Say it again.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0384par0171	Excuse me...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0382par0172	Can you say that again?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0385par0173	What's the matter? We didn't understand anything. Nothing happened.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0382par0174	Let me hear what you're saying, or I'll give you a good answer, brother.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0386par0175	Please, Mr. Kutluata, continue.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0382par0176	Sir, when you came from this bench -- you were thrilled -- Mr. Prime Minister said they were privatising $50 billion and $513 million during their 12-year rule, and added after that, we're freeing Turkey from its weights. A week before December 17th, the Prime Minister said this, and it shows these privatisation examples of what it means to free Turkey from its weights. In that regard, valued lawmakers, the government must at least refrain from being a patron in order to cut off the back of this departure. Now, the looting and looting of privatisation has become the point of going public and bragging and hitting people in the face. In that regard, we have not been able to prevent or prevent the additives to this law to prevent the return of public goods sold, but we leave them to the public conscience. The Turkish nation has the right to know two points about privatisation; it will be revealed tomorrow. First of all, is the money that comes out of the pockets of those who seem to have bought these goods the same money that goes into the treasure? This point needs to be clear. Secondly, if it's the same, did the people who paid for it buy out all the visible shares? What kind of relationships did he have here? I think that in order to prevent corruption in the country, these things need to be put in public order. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0387par0182	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. In the name of the person, Bursa MP Commander Matlı. Here you go, Mr. Matli.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0388par0186	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf regarding the bill in question. Before I begin to speak on this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Dear MPs, at the beginning of my words, I would like to express that I strongly condemn the massacre, the genocide, in Palestine, Gaza. Even in the days before Islam came to this land, even in the environments in which parents buried their daughters alive, even in the period of that time, the tribes at that time did not fight at all, nor did they attack each other. And today, thousands of years later, in a time that is precious to the Islamic world, blessed, we regret and condemn that such a genocide attempt has been launched. Yeah, there's no curse on our religion, but frankly, we don't have a lot of words to say in that sense either. But there's no way we can pass without expressing something; it's keeping the wolf neutral while the wolf eats the lamb. So we want to express our feelings, our thoughts, our feelings, that no human being, no human being, can accept it, that we should remain neutral in an environment of such cruelty, persecution, in this world. Dear lawmakers, the Law of Business -- the Reconstruction of some public property -- is a very comprehensive package of legislation that includes amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures -- as a result of long work, the needs of our nation and our state, in many different laws. It aims to improve the sustainable continuity of economic development, the investment climate, ease the debt burden of the private sector, and use financial and monetary policies more effectively, in the direction of restructuring the public buys that will respond in many areas. Given the state's current revenues, the ferii and the amount appear to be substantial. With this law, it is planned to be restructured by the amount of tax debt, insurance premium and a certain amount of administrative fines and the amount of tariffs and hikes that will be calculated on the basis of GDP monthly change rates, which our citizens have failed to pay for or have difficulty paying for due to some of their difficulties.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0389par0190	Are there farmers, Mr. Commander?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0388par0191	And hopefully to the farmers, when the time comes, we'll do it all.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0389par0192	When will it come? He's dead. Farm's dead.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0388par0193	Farmers are our crowns. Yes, good lawmakers are granted long-term installments so that the payments will not be burdened. Thus, both the difficulties between the state and the taxpayers will be eliminated and the treasure will be supplied with additional funds. In addition, the melting of tens of thousands of cases in tax courts will give us an opportunity to end the conflicts with the taxpayers. Very valuable lawmakers, as we all know, have all worked together in the Plan and Budget Commission to provide solutions to many problems in this law, but especially when we look at the arrangements for all of our workers working in the mining sector, there are no conditions for seniority in the underground workforce, so that the sanctions made by the employer, in the arrangement in favour of the workers, are allowed to take advantage of the subterranean workers without a severance requirement. A variety of situations regarding the rights of sub-employee, the original employer, and the employees they employ have been organised in favour of sub-contractors. Arrangements have been made for the rehabilitation of overtime conditions for workers working underground jobs. They have a lot of stuff when we count them. And I'd like to express this in particular. The amount of wages for miners who remove the lignite and condensation will not be less than twice the minimum wage. Dear lawmakers, during the 12 years of our rule, we have signed many reformary regulations that have responded to the needs of our nation, and I believe that we will continue to make many more successes in the new Turkey, which is running towards its goals, and to live up to its rightful pride in our nation. As I put an end to my words, I am already celebrating your upcoming Ramadan holiday because of the holiday of our Parliament. I wish this law to bring blessings to our country, to our nation, and once again I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0390par0199	Thank you, Mr. Matli. Congressmans, we're now going to question-answer. We're 15 minutes out; I'll give you half of the questions and half of the answers. Mr. Pine, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0391par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in particular 30 counties -- with the entire city law -- have been in the neighborhood of nearly 16,000 villages. Although before there were villages in many of our counties, a number of citizens, under the name of the private forest area, who had nothing to do with that area from close to and far away, have come to rent the village's 50-year-old, 100-year-old land from father to grandfather as a private forest area and occupy those areas. The last of them are people who are not remotely related to the region of Lakecuk in our Seferihisar district, who will come and cut down these 50-year-old, 60-year-old areas called the private forest area, and we will cut down the Palamut trees and plant them. We want information on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0392par0206	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0393par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I have two questions: First of all, you left with the password 1,000 ponds per day. I want to know how long the start date of this thousand days has been. Two: There are areas in Bursa that have 2/B land, but are not sold because it is a site. Our citizens, who have used these fields here for years, want to be sold to them. If here, in the future, the TOKI or the allies won't do anything, let's take it and leave it as a status area. Let the deed be the good deed. They call it the deed. I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0394par0212	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0395par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, through you, Mr. Secretary, I would like to ask the minister: Mr. Secretary, the waters below and above ground are becoming increasingly polluted, which threatens human health. In addition, the agricultural sector is very negatively affected. Is there a measure, if there is one, that you think about? My second question: Why have the measures proposed in the report of the Parliamentary Research Commission, established in the Turkish Parliament for the Ergene basin environmental pollution in the 22nd term, not been taken so far? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0396par0218	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0397par0220	Mr. President, as you all know, there's been a great drought today. Lake Sapanca, the most important water source in the provinces of Sakarya and Schepeli, is about to run out. Water factories are built on rivers that feed Sapanca Lake, and not one gram of water goes to Lake Sapanca. Lake Sapanca, which feeds on subterranean water supply, is a source of distress by the brutal consumption of these resources from the Bigeli industry. Again, I say it makes sense that the Sungurlu dam, which is 90 percent of it within the Kandira borders, should be built to provide water for Istanbul. I'd like to ask that the situation be rectified in the favor of Bigeli. The resources of the water must be used for the benefit of the people of the Samarian industry and for the benefit of the people of Alexei. He is a city that contributes to Turkey as much as Istanbul, giving taxes in the second or third place, but is unable to benefit.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0396par0223	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0398par0225	Mr. Minister, the property issue of our citizens, who have a 2/B title problem in İzmir Gaziemir Sarnic, remains unsolved. At this point, how do you feel about solving this problem? One. Second: After mining search in the Kaz Mountains, we are in danger of the destruction of our natural beings, such as the Kaz Mountains. What about your work as your Ministry? Three: What do you think of the Ministry as taking CED reports on opening quarryes in the woods in these frameworks? Don't you suspect our forests that a hundred miles [182 km] from the 260km route to Istanbul's 3th airport? Last I want to know about the recent situation of the Ataturk Forest Farm.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0399par0229	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Dear Private...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0400par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. So far, we have stood as CHPs in the face of all injustices, infringements, human rights violations, and every false trial with illegal evidence. I'm the prosecutor of this case, and I'm the prosecutor of this case, saying, "It's nothing more than the attempt of the Prime Minister to declare himself guilty today by denying his responsibility to those who have committed these unlawful acts." As a matter of fact, today, we all know that the real intention of the AKP, who claims to be dealing with parallel structures through the judiciary, is to cover up corruption and theft. Mr. Secretary, consistency is the essentialness of politics, and the integrity of a politician. Try to run as much as you want, the responsibility belongs to the AKP's government, which has ruled the country for 12 years. We know that all of the ruling owners, including Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the first place, and all of the hidden, open structures that he's been working with so far, must answer to the total.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0401par0235	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0402par0237	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are serious problems in the implementation of the law, which is known in public as the law.2/B, which has been introduced for areas that have lost forest quality in Article 2/B of Forest Law 6831. Due to the height of the price, many owners have not been able to receive and have not been able to apply. Therefore, as you know, the period was extended in the early months of 2014. What are the application results as of now? How many of the rightful owners have applied? What's the money from the sale of 2/B land? Is there any part of this that's been spent on the development of the forest peasant so far, if there is, how much? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0403par0240	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0404par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've told you about this before. There are still problems with these civil suit cases. There is a regulation in this bag of legislation, Article 22 of 2942, but in Article 10 of this sentence, after this sentence is passed, that wound continues to concern the costs between the citizen and the administration, and there are serious executions. If there is a discount on interest reductions or otherwise, Mr. Minister, there will be a serious improvement in this. Even in Artvin, even in my constituency, many executive offices employ citizens of State Water Affairs, and there are outstanding interest rates. Now the government can't make what they're going to get, they can't get what they're going to get, they're both victims of the state and the citizens. I expect you to make some progress on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0405par0245	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0406par0247	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you. First, Mr. Pine asked, and there were 30 cities in particular, and of course, villages became neighborhoods. Now, it's not a private forest, it's been here for twenty- thirty years, since the past few years, in order to bring income to our village in broken forest areas -- now, of course, the neighborhoods -- there's a bunch of walnuts, like almonds, because we import 65-70 percent of the walnut, 40 percent of the almond. Thus, such a campaign began. We're basically doing this: one, we're dividing a area near that village or near the neighborhood, and we're dividing it as far as those villagers can go, like 50, 60, 70, 80 trees, walnuts or almonds...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0407par0249	The peasant doesn't know.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0406par0250	Yes, excuse me. By drawing lots personally -- and I have just drawn lots in Aksaray, and Konya, and Kayseri, myself -- for forty-nine years. Three years of maintenance, all expenses, the Ministry's income, all of it belongs to the villagers. Other than that, in remote areas, the peasant can't do it. So, we're declaring regulations on our website, among the applicants, we're drawing lots among the fittest, they're given this, this whole thing, for the purpose of the personal deforestation. We give it to the villagers, and the villagers are happy with it. Seferihisar... they're giving out all the broken forest areas, and they're giving out the inefficient forests. Mr. Demiröz, of course 1.000 days, the start date of 1,000 ponds is January 1, 2012, 8:59 p.m. Thank God. Look, let's face it, this is a really great move. With the watering of 1,000 ponds in 1.000 days -- and hopefully at the end of this year -- do not finish 1,000 -- even one in Cyprus, we plan to finish 1,001. Well, in the 60 years before us -- part-term, including our term -- there are only 400 ponds made by the DSI, so 400 in 50 years, we do 1,000 ponds and watering in three years. It's all modern irrigation. Of course, the area of the 2/B area is the property of the state, because it's the area of the Site. Of course, according to the legislation, these areas cannot be given to the citizens because these are the sites. Mr. Serindağ, of course, we're doing a really big study to keep the underground and above ground water from getting dirty. Look, before, in 2002, when we looked at it, only 30 percent of the wastewaters were refined. I, especially before my Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, raised this rate to about 75 to 80 percent during my Ministry of Environment and Forestry, so it's collected, refined water. In fact, right now, for example, in terms of the number of Blue Flags, Turkey has recorded a huge move with 450 Blue Flags... and the treatment facilities are being built everywhere, is that enough? It's not. That's what they're doing. Basically, you know, we've come up with an action plan for Ergene. 15 packages will be spent around $3.3 billion. Currently, the wastewater treatment facilities of 12 major counties and cities there are being built by the DSI. The wastewater treatment facilities of small towns or districts are also under SDUKAP. So in Ergene, the control of the underground, dams, ponds, terrace mountains, wooding, erosion control, control of agricultural fighting drugs, wastewater treatment facilities, common -- decontamination facilities for industry; they're all doing it; they're all doing it; they're doing it. I'll send you this plan. It's going very well, and there's a improvement in quality. Mr. Akar, you specifically mentioned the water facilities in Sakarya and Kokeleli. Now, of course, for that area, for the Bigeli, don't worry, right now two dams in Ihseconds and Avandere are finished planning, we'll make the tender. Therefore, the future needs of water will be met, one. Two: And the Ballıkaya dam is being built right now. The Ballıkaya dam is a great dam. If God wills, we will give both Sakarya (Sachariah) water, and we will give him water.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0408par0258	Mr. Secretary, what capacity is the water holding of the Ballıkaya dam?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0406par0259	So, when this Ballıkaya dam is finished, it won't need water until 2060 anyway.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0408par0260	Tell me, Mr. Secretary, how will you provide for the industry's water supply?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0406par0261	Now, Mr. Sesame, why can't the deed to 2/B land in İzmir be issued? If you point out where he is, I'll...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0409par0262	Gaziemir, Sarnich...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0406par0263	Gaziemir, let's look at it because its normal preparations for 2/B are made by our Ministry and especially by Tapu Kadastro, but it's being sold by the Ministry of Finance. The friends will provide you with information in writing. We don't allow mining in the Kaz Mountains, especially there, in the national park, but outside the national park, we're very sensitive about quarryes. In fact, for the first time on January 1, 2008, before the permit for the quarry was granted, before the permit for the forest, we brought in the conditions for their rehabilitation projects, and I want to stress that in particular. Mr. Special, look, we're in charge here in particular, but of course there's no such thing as corruption, so I'd like to stress that in particular.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0410par0266	No how, no how?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0406par0267	Look, we... how can we invest so much if there's corruption? Right now, only our Ministry has invested 70 billion dollars, 70 quadrillion dollars...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0411par0268	I mean, what does it have to do with corruption?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0406par0269	...invests 700 quadrillion. We know the past and we know the present. I mean, for God's sake, don't!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0412par0270	You don't have the right to commit corruption because we're investing.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0406par0271	That's right, but we're paying the debts.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0413par0272	Who the hell's corrupting?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0412par0273	It's you!
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0413par0274	What are we? He's slandering this time of night, it's Ramadan time.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0414par0275	Who paid the debt to the IMF? You're paying $23.5 billion, the safe's filling up...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0412par0276	What are you sending back?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0413par0277	If you invent a lie during Ramadan, God will keep it from what you fabricate.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0415par0278	23 million... what does that have to do with it?
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0416par0279	...that people already understand that, so they're responding in the chest.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0417par0280	What happened to those roads you've been on for years? You were sending a car.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0416par0281	Mr. Türeli, regarding the implementation of the Law 2/B...
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0417par0283	Did you hear my question? We're always against the law.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0418par0284	Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0416par0285	We have written it down for you in writing.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0417par0286	But, I mean, you're not shy, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0418par0287	You'll give it to me in writing, all right.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0419par0288	They don't come back.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0420par0289	I'll follow. Mr. Flagtutan, you're right about that.
tbmm-2014-07-24sit11spe0421par0291	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You will answer the rest of the questions in writing. The talks on chapter four are now complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
