tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are enough meetings, we'll start negotiations. Members of parliament, I call upon the General Assembly to take a moment of silence before the saintly memory of the deceased İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu. [[Respect has been held]] Thank you. May God have mercy on the deceased, and may his soul rest in peace. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first off-the-book statement is from Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, who asked about the mining accident in Soma district of Manisa. Congressmans, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and Soma will give you a minute to express your opinion and opinion of our martyrs after the extracurricular talk is over. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise about the mine disaster in Soma. I salute you all. On Tuesday (May 13th), in the mining accident at Soma Coal Company, 301 of our miners were killed, hundreds of our miners were injured. I wish God's mercy to our miners who lost their lives, their family's condolences, our wounded, and our beloved nation's salvation. Dear lawmakers, the Soma mining disaster shows very gravely how much danger and negligence our miners face. Now is the time to keep our mourning together as Turkey, as well as to cover our wounds, to explore the interior, the real causes, and behind the scenes of this disaster, and to ensure that the responsible respond without fail and cover. This is where I express that we are willing to contribute and support every effort we have to do as the National Movement Party. Dear lawmakers, the mines in Soma have been run by the redevans system and the private sector since 2005. Misappropriation and lack of supervision, such as privatisation, subcontractorisation and rejection, have greatly increased business accidents. There are 40 subcontractors at the mine where the accident took place. The working order in the mines has turned into a slave formation. The owner of the Soma Coal Company was proud to reduce the cost of coal from $134 to $24, and the view was supported by the government's concerned ministers. Sadly, the government stood by while the government shortened the savings from business workers' wages, job safety and labor health. This is not the first accident in Soma. These accidents have been happening for years. Again, with the redevans system, there were 238 work accidents in 2011, 255 in 2012, and many of our miners died in 2013. If the ruling owners and executives of the Justice and Development Party do not remove their hands from the mines and the necessary measures are not taken, I'm afraid this accident will not be the end. After the fatal mining accident on October 20, 2013, we warned ministers of the Energy and Labor Ministry's 2014 budget talks that the mines in Soma have not been audited, workers' health and work safety have not been provided. On November 26, 2013, we again warned the government about the mining accidents in Soma, and on December 2, 2013, we raised our questions to the ministers of Labor, Energy and Health about these mining accidents and drew attention to our questions. On 29 April 2014, we also warned the government in a motion to investigate the establishment of a research commission for mining accidents in Soma. Despite our efforts, however, there has been no measure of mining accidents in Soma. This incident was not an accident, it was a massacre, because despite repeated warnings, the necessary measures were not taken, and sadly, these motions were rejected by lawmakers, including the ruling party -- including the Manisa MPs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to extend my regards to you all in my next talks about Soma Coal Company.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Manisa MP Hasan Ören. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, we're all very sorry for the loss of the high-profile lawmakers, and I'm sorry for the loss of Turkey's head. We lost our 301 worker friend's lifeless body in the accident in Soma. Truly, Turkey is a pain in the ass. It's so hard to live it, to see it, to witness it, so that God does not cause anyone, even my enemy, such pain. The Minister and I were together from the day of the incident until the last lifeless body came out of the mine. We've heard the pain here together, the cries of mothers, fathers, children. It's not a pain to bear. It's not possible to describe this pain either, but if this pain happened here, 301, if the saplings of this country died in the mine, we all know that our friends died here because of a lack of something, a mistake, a mistake about job safety. Over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and If only I hadn't gotten off this bench, if only we'd stayed on this bench as Manisa MPs, broken these glasses, broken these microphones, if only we could have told you about this danger step by step. One funeral came out, we went up to five, we went up to five, we went up to eleven, we begged, we begged; we said: "We may not have a lot of MPs, please, the people of Manisa, the danger is coming, we see this danger, we tell this danger from here, we don't have to offer condolences." But I don't know what it is, you've all blocked your ears, you've all ignored our proposals, our commission offers. Did you do it on purpose? No, I don't accept what you're doing. You're as upset as we are. 301 saplings, 301 lives, 301 people in this country... it's impossible to please, no one is pleased. But do we have to set up a commission here, ask for measures to be taken so that we don't see these sufferings, and see the dead body of our 301 children in order for you to accept them? Now, you bring it in, you bring in a commission proposal. You're doing it right. The same way we did it right yesterday, just as you didn't get it right, we're picking up the truth that you did today. Bring it in now, we'll set it up right away. I wish we'd gone to class before that. What if we were in class? That businessman was going to get the opportunity to think that a commission from lawmakers in this parliament, representing the 76 million, is coming to my mine. Maybe I'll tell the AKP MP what's missing about the safety of business here, but I can't tell the CHP, the HDP, the MP. Well, then, I'm about to...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0005par0035	It could be the other way around.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0004par0036	It could be the other way around, it could be the other way around. He may not be able to tell the CHP. It's true what you say. But in the end, the son of 301 was gone, and then he would say, "I'll put more sensors on, and I'll take more precautions about our workers poisoned with carbon monoxide." You didn't even give me a chance to think about it. There were 16 inspections. Those inspectors must have informed our Minister of Energy and the Minister of Energy about the lack of job safety between the 1 ±th and the 16th of 16th of the 16th of the 16th of the audits. Why weren't these precautions taken? We didn't talk for four days. I thank all Republican People's Party MPs. We didn't allow information pollution in Turkey, we explained what the Minister explained. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We discuss this fight, everything about the future investigation, but today is not the day to be debated, today is the day to share Turkey's wounds, Turkey's sufferings. He's said it over and over on TV. But for how long? Until Prime Minister Soma came to the land of Soma, there was a calm in Soma, and the calm in Soma was over when Mr. Prime Minister set foot on Soma. I'll explain to you from here what's going on in my next conversation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0006par0041	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Chorum MP Cahit Bağcı, who wants to talk about the same thing again. Here you go, Mr. Bonder.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0007par0046	Mr. President, I've been sworn in as a friend of yours that lost his father in a coal mine accident 38 years ago, about the most painful Soma mining disaster in the history of mining, 77 million of our citizens. At the beginning of my words, I ask God's mercy and condolences and patience for all the martyrs who lost their lives in Soma. Also, 12 years under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I offer my condolences to Republican People's Party MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who we have been working with in the Plan and Budget Commission, to my brother Allah's mercy, to his family's patience, to the people of Malatya, to all his loved ones, and to the Republican People's Party. He was a fighter, a compromiser, a hard worker, a patriot and a good man. Dear friends, there are no doubt many workers and mining children among us, but there is no one else alive again who lost his father on a Christmas Eve in a coal mine shaft and felt the pain in his heart in every mining accident. Mr. President, I thank you so much for giving me the opportunity to express my feelings and thoughts on a day like this. Do you guys know what mining is? A lifetime of longing for fresh air, blue skies, exploding grays, burnt-out bodies, orphans and widows, extinguished furnaces, eye springs dry mothers, silent fathers, eyes in the void... do you know what mining is? Children who couldn't get enough of their fathers and became brothers of fate, grieving, veiled brides who couldn't see the dead, young men who were doomed to the same fate. Do you guys know what coal is? Coal is the sacred and vital battle of my children, so that my children may not live the life I live. Charcoal is to pray that every day, seven floors below the ground, he walks in and out alive. Coal is the combination of life and death. Coal is to write a will before every shift and erase it every time you return home. Charcoal is to be allowed to leave the house every day as if he's never coming back, and to hold you for a long, long time. Coal, in short, is a short life. Do you guys know what coal is? Coal is the possession of the furnaces of the greed of profit. Coal, the fall of those above, is the parlay of those below. Coal is the dark fortune of face-to-face people. Coal is a legitimate gain earned by working with honor. You guys know what's the sweetest food for a family of miners? It's a modest meal from the neighborhood oven after work with a warm loaf of coal-black kisses carried by the hands. Dear friends, we must all do our part to make sure that such suffering never happens again. We should be able to be one heart in the solution, as we managed to be one in pain with power and opposition, especially the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. During our Prime Minister Soma's visit, this accident will be investigated in every detail, in every detail, and will not be allowed to overlook any negligence, and those responsible will be identified. Today, what the public wants from us is to take measures to keep our miners alive and safe and sign the ILO Convention number 176; it is the establishment of powerful and deterrent inspections, rather than routinely careful and routine audits; it is also the deployment and monitoring of business health and safety experts to relevant ministries; it is the use of high technology in underground mining; it is the use of high technology in our laws, not of production, product and labor, not of profits, but of human and labor. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, my wish is to move from underground coal mining to ground-open mining and renewable energy sources in our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, although there are 442 nuclear reactors in the world, unfortunately in our country, some marginals, environmentalists, NGOs, politicians and activists oppose the construction of nuclear reactors and HES, producing social opposition. As long as we oppose and delay nuclear and nuclear and energy, our alternative for energy is more imports of oil and natural gas, soma and other mines, and coals extracted from the labor and sweat of workers. In this regard, Turkey must quickly focus on renewable energy sources, not on 1-2, but on at least 20 nuclear reactors. Dear friends, today we unite our hearts with the hearts of the families of our 301 coal miners, whom we send to eternity, and we say, "Your pain is our pain. May their souls be in peace, their dwellings be in heaven, our heads." I salute you all with my prayers that there will be no more such great suffering.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you. In the name of the government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız will respond to non-responsibility talks. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0009par0066	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I would like to start by respectfully greeting your delegation. First of all, as we all know in Soma, we have lost 301 workers, and I wish them God's mercy, and patience for their families. Also, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu has passed away; we are very sad, we are sad and we feel his heart and we will always feel his voice, I want justice, I want Malatya's right. We will often feel the words he says. I ask God for mercy. Dear friends, we have suffered a great deal in Soma. We were there with all his power, his opposition, his NGOs, many layers of society. I especially want to thank my friends from CHP, MHP, BDP, and other parties for their kindness. Our AK PARTY was there all the time and never left. We've shared our pain to the end, and we continue to share it. Dear friends, there was an accident at Manisa Soma Eynez, a company owned by the private sector; Turkey was one of the most important accidents in the mining sector, and in that accident, from beginning to end, with all of our institutions, we were there with the tools, the human resources. In co-ordinating AFAD, experts from Turkey's Taşkomömömü, experts from their helicopter, their emergency flight from here, our immediate departure from here, 112 emergency health care services, the IMKE teams, again, 23 ambulances, our ministry, TTK, MTA, TİM, and our ministers, all our ministers, our Minister of Health, our Minister of Health, our Minister of Health, our Minister of Health, and Social Policy who have arrived there with many other institutions, have been led by this crisis with nearly 600 people. The length of the mine was about four and a half kilometers long, and its deepest location, its most negative code, 450, and its location was about 150 metres deeper. Since the accident occurred in the main gallery carrying fresh air to the stove, carbon monoxide poisoning actually covered the entire stove and the fresh air contaminated the production sites and affected the employees. It has been mentioned, 787 of our brothers and sisters, that 363 have been saved, and in the process, search and rescue, rescue, immediate transport of the wounded, funeral arrangements of the deceased, the testimony of the family of our miners, and many of the issues of this crisis center were on the agenda. Mr. Hasan just made a very accurate assessment. One of the main reasons for the right management of the crisis is that co-ordination is from one place, and the EC PARTY and all opposition parties have been very kind about it and have contributed to the right management of the crisis. Along with AFAD, 156 personnel and 45 vehicles; our Chief of Staff with 1 plane and 2 helicopters; with nearly 250 ▪ staff from our Ministry of Zonguldak, Çayıralan (Turchbilek); Kızılay 100 personnel and 12 vehicles; our Ministry of Health served in the area along with 405 staff, doctors, nurses, 6 air vehicles, 62 ambulances. Our Home Office has done the same for all of this coordination. I must say, our Police General Directorate has also contributed very seriously to the resolution of this crisis by the General Command of the Gendarmes and the vehicle. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, our Ministry of National Education, Ankara, İstanbul, Balıkesir, Denizli, İzmir, Manisa, Metropolitan City, Butler and Kütahya, together with staff and vehicles, ran to Soma. Many institutions, many NGOs, whose name we can't even name, have also contributed to the resolution of this crisis. One heart worked there all together, and along with the DNA tests, a match was made to our brothers and sisters who died in the mine. Another 13 teams, 39 in the field, were assigned by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Together with 2,743 personnel and 258 land vehicles and nine aircraft, they continued in Soma. There's been a major crisis, a very serious tribulation, a deep sadness, and a mining accident where each of us has been seriously injured. Of course, Saturday's work was concluded, and a total of 486 workers were rescued and 301 workers were killed. After the accident, it also began to provide financial support as well as spiritual support for families. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy helped families with their funeral arrangements at that moment to meet the need, it was a opaque procedure. Of course, our Minister of Labour and Social Security is going to tell us here, a very large area of work related to their ministry took place here. There, the work of the AFAD (AFAD) was also very important to those in need, and we all shared that pain in Soma until Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our Prime Minister, our Chief of Staff, the leaders of our opposition parties, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, Mr. Gardenli, and the leaders of our other parties, reached the party leaders who did not have a group in parliament. We all believed that this pain was politically superior, and also that the representatives of the trade unions, the president of TÜRK-İH, the NGOs, the Foundations, the Associations, the arts, sports and media were there in the same way. From here, I'd like to thank all the NGOs in Redaya and the mining area once again. Dear friends, if a disaster isn't a natural disaster, if it's not a disaster, then there's a flaw. If the disaster there is a natural disaster, the flaw there is debatable, but the flaw here, dear friends, is absolutely undisputable. I would especially like you to believe that whoever and whatever organization is involved in this, you have to trust that we're going to work on it. Because here, in terms of human, political, administrative, judicial, legal, technical, and audits, and in many ways, this matter needs to be examined, and I don't want any of us to have any doubt that any of these issues I've considered will be handled at the height of each one of them. We're, at the moment, mining-related production activities, you know, stopped at that stove. The mine there is a very lively operation. The mine is not a business that stays the way you left it. The mines act as a highly dynamic, living being that can produce methane, produce carbon monoxide, burn inside, and, in some sense, flood parts of the water. So I'd like to say once again that stopping their production and closing the stove are all separate things. There's methane in the main focus of the coal in Zonguldak, and there's heat in the main center of the coal, and there's fire in the coal. That's why I have to tell you, he's got that kind of character. The circulation of the air there is just like the clean blood from the heart in the human body turning back to dirty blood (refined) and then being given clean again. There's an area where fresh air mixes with dirty air and walks with a very thin line. The biggest problem here is that there's a carbon monoxide block coming into the fresh airway, and with it, there's a point like giving all the cells fresh air when they're giving them fresh air. This business, of course, has a private sector that operates in redevance, but as a responsibility, it's not both legal and human. It is an area of responsibility, along with our Ministry of Energy and Resources, as well as our Ministry of Labor, until it reaches its owner, from the technical and permanent custodians who run Redevans. We consider this accident a very important threat. From this threat, we must surely bring a separate dimension beyond the mining field in front of us, beyond the audits we've made so far, all the investigations we've done so far. Nobody wants an accident like this to happen, but if it did happen -- so far my friends have given me pages full of our audits, we've been here at this time, we've been there on this date, but there's definitely something different, since this was an accident. Since each of these has been brought to trial and they've been conducted in the prosecution, it's not right for us to go into the details of these right now. From the beginning, at our first press release and press conference, I've been very cautious about the reasons and reasons for this accident -- perhaps you've noticed -- because the reasons for the accident, where the accident came from, will be with this administrative investigation, this criminal investigation. In the administrative investigation, from the subject of redevance agreements and contracts by the licensed owner, until we get to all the criminal procedures that are going to be done here, of course, with the Department of Labor, together with a very good working team, whether there's a conflict in the works, whether there's the same jobs, what we do, what we don't do, what we come up with a lot of different inspections on the pens, what we don't do. Dear friends, a mining accident rightly has a very serious quality of news, because we have spent a week in Soma, which affects each one of us from Edirne to Kars, from Sinop to Hatay, but we need to add something more to all the controls that we've done about it. With the legal dimension of this work, there will be financial compensation, and there will be arrangements. In forensic investigations, there will be criminal practices... of our prosecutors, judges, and judges. In administrative investigations, of course, there will be license bonds and correlations related to them, as I have just submitted. Of course, the link between contracts and criminal responsibilities is always followed by justice. Mr. President, dear friends, here, as our Prime Minister has explained, the work of the fallen relatives will be conducted by a delegation to the head of our Ministry of Family and Social Policy. While we were doing these things in particular, there were some issues that happened on some social media that each of us might be ashamed to say. I'm not going to go into detail right now, but I have to say that the services there are immediately being done, and that the work we're going to do about it will be presented with even more different approaches. After a mining accident like that, there's a difference in what to do -- any flash, any fire, any effort to prevent methane gas from being delivered to the gallery. At this moment, world specimens of this are being re-examined, as they are now. Is there a surprise that we're going to run into, or is there a point that we're missing, or, after all these inspections, that even though all these physical conditions have been fulfilled, there's a leap in the direction of the company, each of which is going to be shown at its length. I told my colleagues, in front of the press and in front of the public, we lost 301 lives. None of us will bear the burden of this world or of the Hereafter, and none of us will shoulder it, and none of us should. This Veballe... they also have children, close to 500. I'd like to say once again here that we're going to be followers of their education until the end. From now on, we're going to ease their troubles a little bit, and we're going to set up a structure where the government, the government, and all the other parties will feel that the NGOs are on their side. It won't bring our lives back, but it'll shed light on the work from now on. Dear friends, we use about 102 million tonnes of coal in Turkey about coal management every year, and 80 million tons of this comes from mines produced in Turkey, whose weight is lignite. I'm not going to go into a lot of things that have to do with their employment, their numbers, their reflections right now, but we have to be able to do this without taking any of our local coals into the lives of any of our workers. The solution to this is that we shut down each of them and froze them where they were. We all need to know that there is no solution. I have to say that coal vessels in Turkey are very different from veins in parts of countries such as South Africa, Germany, Australia. There are countries that look like us, countries that are nothing like us. There are countries in solution proposals where we can work together, countries where we can work differently. You're paying 80-82 dollars from South Africa today -- they're bringing coal to the port you asked for at 6,500 kilocalories. And then you take 10 feet of land, and you put 100 work machines in there, and you put 1,000 trucks in there, and that's how you get all the coal. We have 600 meters, 650 meters... not even our coals in Zonguldak. That doesn't make any mistakes reasonable. Our coal is just as we found it now, and we're only gonna be able to get it out where we found it. It has social aspects, it has political aspects, it has many reflections, it has jobs. So, this accident, especially the Soma accident, is not just Turkey's biggest mining accident, my friends. Unfortunately, we have reached a point in the world where we can fix this quickly, create an environment of inadvertentity. So, dear friends, in the meantime, I'd like to thank all the friends who will contribute to the House Research Commission. I'm just saying in advance, we'll share all the information with them. Again, to those who died in the Soma accident, and to our esteemed MP, Mevlüt Bey, I pray for God's mercy and patience for the rest of them. I'm supplying.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0010par0098	Thank you. Now, members of lawmakers, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who want a word first, and then I'm going to make a promise to the members of parliament one minute at a time. Members of lawmakers who can't get into the system because the system accepts 30 people can enter the system after each member of parliament has spoken and his name has been erased. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0011par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to extend my condolences to our 301 miners, who were martyrs of the greatest tragedy of our history in Soma. May Allah make clear to us that He should take measures to protect us from such acts. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I give you all the support necessary to prevent these sufferings from happening again. I sincerely thank our beloved nation, which has been reducing these sufferings by sharing them with each and every member of our nation in every part of Asia Minor. Everyone's heart went out in Soma, and he felt his pain in his heart, and he shared his pain. Why we are truly a great nation, and the attitude of sharing that pain has really shown. At the same time, there are lessons from our miners who are suffering, who are martyrs, who are there. I hope that those miners will also have their share of human lessons and those who have not received their share. I hereby offer my condolences to the Republican People's Party Group in honor of the death of Mevlüt Aslanoglu. I ask for God's mercy and my condolences to his loved ones. Of course, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu was a very hardworking MP, and when looked at in this way, I'm reading a statement from the transcripts that he said before he received a request for a statement against the procedure debate in the House: Mr. President, people died here in Soma. Oh, please, for God's sake! Don't attack! In Soma, people died. I also ask God's mercy to our people who died in Soma, and to Farid Mevlüt Aslanoglu, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0012par0110	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0013par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, last week we suffered a major disaster, but we also lost Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, our MP, whose heart did not endure this great disaster and whose great heart did not hold. According to official records of the largest mining massacre in our Republic's history, we are in deep sorrow and grief over the loss of 301 citizens. First of all, I want it known that we'll do everything within the legal framework to get the wounds wrapped up and then the responsible to be accounted for. Mevlüt Aslanoglu, as we all know in Parliament, was a unique, unique friend who had succeeded in placing a throne in the hearts of four opposition political parties and all independent lawmakers. To describe him, we would call him a public friend, a unique, exemplary man; an honest, selfless, hardworking politician; a symbol of virtue, reconciliation, and tolerance. Mevlüt Aslanoglu was a representative of reconciliation, tolerance, work, dialogue. As seen at his funeral, the end of his journey through Parliament and outside Parliament is a clear sign of how he has left a deep mark on us and on our society. May God grant us all a large circle of love captured by his servant Aslanoglu. I ask for God's mercy. I thank the ruling party and the MPs of the other opposition parties who attended the funeral, the executives, everyone, and I thank you for your concern. May his place be in heaven. It's a great loss to our Parliament, and I know we'll all look for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0014par0118	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0015par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on May 13th, I'd like to say that we consider our country and the mining disaster in Soma County of Manisa, which is enslaving the entire world, as a human drama, an endless massacre. This is where I'd like to say that after hours of the Soma disaster, the oppressed workers who were taken out of the cave-in were giving the investors, the politicians, everyone who was negligent, a great lesson in humanity. I'm saying that the Soma massacre has already taken its place on the history page, as the end point of its exploitation of the most inhumanity of profit ambition to the worker. As the People's Democratic Party, we wish God's mercy to all our citizens who lost their lives in the Soma massacre, our condolences to their families and to all our people, and to the wounded we pray for immediate healing. On behalf of our group, our fellow lawmakers will make clear their observations and proposals for further solutions in the upcoming research motion. We have made it clear again that the Soma massacre has a political responsibility and that the account of this responsibility will surely be asked, and that we, as the People's Democratic Party, will follow it. Again, we feel the pain of the loss of Republican People's Party İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu. With human love, with love, we wish to give God's mercy to Mevlüt brother, who is full of love for the people, our condolences to his family, our entire Assembly, and to all our people, including the Republican People's Party Group. Another issue: Yesterday, an unarmed 28-year-old mother, Saada Darwich, who tried to cross the border with her father and two children at the Turkish-Rojava border in Cizre district of Şırnak province, was killed by random firing and scanning of soldiers, and was killed. Again, 15-year-old Ali Özdemir was severely injured by random gunfire at the Dirbyek-Senyurt border, and we've just received reports that he has lost two eyes. We condemn a mindset that hurts and kills our people, without speaking of children, without speaking of women, by firing at random. We invite the government to bring these responsible to justice and do their duty for administrative and judicial investigation as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0016par0130	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0017par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, 301 of our citizens were killed last week in the mine disaster in Soma. For days, we have suffered a real trauma as a society, as a result of this tragedy that has hurt the entire community deeply and filled our hearts with pain. I think this trauma, this pain, is going to last longer because our 301 brothers were working there in an environment where there were inhumane conditions, where control was not done, almost invited to death. I ask God's mercy to our 301 citizens, their families, their relatives, and our entire nation, and my condolences. The fact that such events do not happen once again is the greatest lesson we can take out of this pain, but in general, it is also true that despite the fact that we have spoken such sentences after every great event, even though the authorities have spoken such words, we have experienced such painful events over and over again. I sincerely hope that this event will be the end of our history, and that from now on, as a society, as a nation, I will not experience these sufferings. I embrace the tearful, grieving families that our fellow miners have left behind, and I share their pain, and I express that we will always be there for them. Last week's second painful event was the arrival of Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, a 24th-century Istanbul MP, Malatya, 22 and 23nd-century. Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who has served in Parliament since 2002, was a dear friend of ours. In our culture, there are good words in our religion to say after a dead person, no bad words, but Mevlüt Aslanoglu was a man who really deserved to be said good words behind his back, and he deserved it. His priority, his political priority, not his life priority, not his family, but the people, the citizens, they had problems. He was such a model political man, an exemplary man of the people. He was a good friend, a devoted man, a loyal man. Generally, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu was the embodiment of the concept that we saw in social relations, friendship relations, politics, that we now see that he was about to disappear, and he was a compassionate, sensitive heart, a heartful person, a very good friend. He was my closest friend in Parliament, I'd say. So, also, maybe I have a little more sense, and I feel like I have the right to say a little bit more about it. In Parliament, we all gave him the title of deputy leader of a group of political parties. He was a good friend of ours who reached a compromise between the four political parties. Funeral prayer was truly an example, where there was a congregation where every politician had to learn. There were all political parties, there were ministers, there were people from all parts of society. It's the quality of a politician who's supposed to be able to meet such a mass at his funeral. God rest his soul. My condolences to Parliament, to his family, to his friends. I'm going to miss Mevlüt Aslanoglu. Finally, I learned that the mother of our Samsun MP, Mr. Tülay Baker, had passed away. I'm here to offer my condolences and my condolences to Mrs. Tülay. I ask God's mercy on his mother. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0018par0138	Thank you. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0019par0141	Mr. President, thank you. I salute our esteemed congressman friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly. We ask God's mercy to our 301 workers who were killed in the mine accident that occurred in Soma last week, and we ask for patience for their families, and we say, "I am sorry for the Turkish nation." There we were, in Soma, 301 martyrs in that disaster, but we saw that 77 million were one heart and a wounded heart. This was one of the key indicators that the Turkish nation is a body in important events, a single heart. It was hard not to be touched when we saw our citizens from all over Turkey, who were conciliating to these families, praying, striving to help them. During this time, for five days, I give my heartfelt thanks to our Minister of Energy and Resources Taner Yildiz, Vice Minister of Health, Minister of Labour and Social Security, representatives of all institutions and institutions, as a member of this country, who have worked very hard to prevent the growth of events, to avoid further loss of life. On the other hand, I also thank the representatives of the political party, the MPs, who are working hard with their opposition to resolve the problem as far as possible with NGOs, so that the problem doesn't go into different dimensions. Again, in this process, we also experienced the regret of having been involved in politics together for 11 and a half years, losing the late Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who was first the Malatian MP, then the Istanbul MP, and before being a member of parliament, our friendship. Mevlüt Bey was one of the most colorful figures in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. He was one of the rare politicians who sought his rights without insulting them. Maybe it's one of a kind. The absence of Farid Mevlüt Bey is likely to be sought not only by the Republican People's Party, but by all political parties, because he was one of the most important examples of reconciliation. He was our friend, who came with us, the deputy leader, who tried to figure out how to work things out in harmony that day. My condolences to both the head of the Republican People's Party and my condolences to all of us, and to his family, I wish you patience. It's not the way it is -- Mr. Akif just said it -- it's not that you can speak well of the dead, it's just that I want to express my heart as a congressman, a friend who's known him for 11 and a half years. The mother of our Samsun MP Tülay Bakır Ma'am has also received the mercy of Rahman. I ask for his mother's mercy, and I ask for her and her family's patience. Again, our great nation's head, and I salute you all, so that my Lord will not show us such suffering.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0020par0150	Yes, thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0021par0153	Mr. President, thank you. I'm saying to my brother, Mevlüt Aslanog, our MP, who died of a heart attack on Friday night, Malatya and Turkey, a lover, a man of the heart, a compromiser of politics, a sense of service, that I wish him God's mercy, that his place should be in heaven, that our nation, especially my Malatian countrymen, would miss you very much, brother Mevlüt. Again, I ask God's mercy for 301 of our brothers who lost their lives in the disaster that took place in Soma. I hope that we will never face such misfortunes again from my Lord, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0022par0156	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0023par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, my dear brother Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and those who lost their lives in Soma. To consider what happened in Soma (Soma) as an occupational accident is to be part of the killings there. Yesterday we witnessed murders in Soma, the previous day in the ports, and tomorrow we can witness other business accidents, new murders. The research commission should investigate labour health and occupational safety issues for all employees, not just coal mine workers. Death is God's command, but there is no death in the fringe of mining. The pain does not ease by calling those who have lost their lives a martyr. We must give our dead brothers the rights of martyrs, provide work for their relatives, take care of their children; otherwise, we are hypocritical. A small accident at the nuclear plant planned in Mersin can cause much greater disasters, and immediately the love must be abandoned. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0024par0165	Thank you. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0025par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. I also ask God's mercy to our citizens who died in Soma, and to our dear elder, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu. Of course, while the ministers are here, I'd like to give you a concrete warning: Bolu Province, Mengen County, Gökçesu Province; this is a municipality; this is also a region with a large number of mines, coal mines. Hundreds of workers are working, Mr. Secretary, in this area, and very badly, in this region, there is not even a health clinic in this Gökçesu area. So there's no immediate response to a work accident that could have occurred. Even though we've been giving warnings about this, at least not one health clinic can be opened. Again, there's no organization here that can contribute to our employees' social security. Again, these friends of ours are in a very difficult position here, in terms of equity and financial rights. I'd like to tell you today that the controls for the mines are inadequate.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0026par0173	Thank you. Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0027par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Like all my friends, I have blessed 301 miners who lost their lives last week in Soma. My condolences to their families and my patience and my wounded brothers and sisters, and I wish them a speedy recovery. We're going through a lot of pain, a lot of trouble. Last Thursday night, we lost Republican People's Party İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu. I offer my condolences to his family, to his loved ones, to all of us, and especially to the Republican People's Party family. Mr. Mevlüt was a very emotional, very colorful, very hardworking, very compromiser. I know we've been through difficult times because of him; he was a kind man, a principled, respected figure of speech, a trusted politician. I think we have a lot to learn from him, and hopefully, he'll set an example for all of us. I'd like to say to my dear Mevlüt hyung that this hall, these seats, these commission rooms will never forget you; sleep well, Mevlüt bhai.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0028par0180	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0029par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, we lost 301 lives in Soma, in the mine on May 13th. Many mistakes, negligence, lack of control, unfortunately, this tragedy has happened. All the people who wanted to bring bread home there, all the people who worked under the ground for their children's sustenance, whether it was from different political views, different ethnic, religious structures, they shared the same fate and died together, they were all our people. I pray for God's mercy, but we must keep the rest alive, where the greatest task falls to the government, and the Turkish nation falls into it. Besides, we've lost Mevlüt's brother, and we're all very sorry for our loss. Mevlüt was an example to all of us, God rest his soul. I've learned a lot, I'm a member of the same district, and he's been an example to me, to me, with every attitude since the election. May his place be in heaven, and the House's head be with him. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0030par0187	Thank you. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0031par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. The mission in our Soma mines is to ask God's mercy for our martyrs. Again, in Parliament, our brother, Istanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, I ask God's mercy and may he rest in peace. In the Soma mines, along with these martyrs, we also had martyrs in many of Turkey's mines. Again, four or five years ago, our heromarash Afshin-Elbistan Termic Plant was buried in a cave-in, and now we have nine remaining mission martyrs in the ground. Both of our ministers are here, both of them as heroes, and our claim is that even though it's been over four or five years, we can't get our martyrs out of the cave-in; that's understood. At least, as heroes, let's build a mausoleum. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0032par0196	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0033par0199	Mr. President, last Tuesday we lost 301 miners in Soma. I ask God's mercy on our workers, his condolences and patience on our people and on our nation. Mevlüt Aslanoglu again, I wish God's mercy to our MP, and my condolences to his relatives. I ask that all aspects of the matter be done, and that all technical and administrative measures be taken from now on, and that there will be no more suffering. I'm sorry for our loss. I give thanks to all individuals and organizations, especially our Minister of Energy, who have been in charge of the Soma. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0034par0204	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0035par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Mevlüt Aslanoglu was truly a humanist, friendly, hardworking brother; we lost, and his place will be in heaven. We lost 301 lives in Soma, thanks to the head of Soma, and Turkey. Soma is now not only a major area of slaughter and disaster, but also a clear picture of the point where AKP power has dragged the country. A dimension of the photograph is the empire of fear created. Still, people are afraid to talk, to react, to cry. The minister of energy did not have the opportunity to change shirts to remove the dead. Thank you for your efforts. If only he had the ability to show his sensitivity and sensitivity before the disaster, he could spend his money on government TOMA, pepper gasses for business health and job safety in Soma, in mines in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0036par0212	Thank you. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0037par0215	Mr. President, our 301 children have died in the greatest work massacre of our history in Soma. I ask God's mercy and patience for our lost lives and for our brother, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, our comrade. I'm sorry for the loss of our nation, of humanity. In Soma, it is the conscience of politics that falls under collapse. Let us, as politicians, not only talk about martyrdom, but by law, let us consider those who die in business killings as martyrs. It's not fate to die in the mine. The number of deaths per million tons of stone coal produced is 4.41 people in the Stone Coal Foundation, 11.50 in the private sector; 1.27 in China and 0.02 in the United States. It is not a coincidence that we are number 1 in Europe and 3 in the world in business killings. I'm saying it's the conscience of politics that's undermining. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0038par0219	Thank you. Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0039par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Like all my friends, I cherish Mevlüt Aslanoglu, the brother of all the Parliament group, and ask patience for his family. Again, my condolences to the families of our workers who died in Soma, and to the wounded, and to the health of the sick. However, I would also like to say that this mining disaster must be investigated in all its aspects to ensure justice and law at once. Besides, the government must take care of the orphans left behind by these people. I'm not just saying that the people who died in Soma, but the workers who died in other mines, must make a legal arrangement to take over the children of the workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0040par0226	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0041par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. We are deeply sorry to face one of the most life-lost disasters in the history of Turkey after the accident in the coal mine in Soma. I know that no words of comfort can be said after the loss of the lives of our miners who work hard to support their families. I see that it is a common demand for the public to investigate and make it necessary for all of our nations to see that such disasters never happen again. Hopefully, soon the matter will be cleared up and the lessons will be learned. I pray to our miners who have passed away in Soma, that I may be patient with God and with their families and with our nation. My hand is injured in the accident, and I wish our miners a speedy recovery. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Besides...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0040par0232	Thank you. Mr. Eyeborn, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0042par0235	Thank you. I ask God's mercy to our beloved MP, Farid Mevlüt Aslanoglu. And again, I ask God's mercy for the souls we lost in Soma, for the workers. According to preliminary findings, the chain of neglects was found in three main topics, according to assessments made by experts and mining engineers in the mine accident that occurred in Soma. 1- Mechanical and electrocution system failures. 2- Lack of occupational safety measures. Three- mistakes in the mining system. These neglects have cost our 301 miners their lives. The losses caused by industrial disasters, including business and traffic accidents in our country, exceed the losses of natural disasters. The only way to reduce losses in business accidents is through risk management. Loss can't be reduced in business accidents in countries that don't take you to the center, develop technology and apply it, can't become an information society.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0043par0243	Thank you. Mr. Chandar...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0044par0246	Mr. President, thank you. There's an accident going on. It's not an accident, it's a murder. So how many times do the workers warn that the temperature of this furnace is rising, the temperature of this furnace is rising? Did they listen? They wouldn't listen. It's a wishful thinking. Two: bedridden. We've been resisting in bed for a long time, so don't specialise in mines or coal mines. It's going to be the same thing when it's special. How many months have they been resisting in bed, shouting, the same thing, as long as the privatisation continues? Attention, we say no to privatisation, especially to prevent these accidents. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0045par0250	Thank you. Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0046par0253	Thank you, Mr. President. When I heard the news of the death of Farid Mevlüt Aslanoglu, I felt a deep sadness in my heart. This sadness, of course, was caused by a relationship of love and respect. Even though our political heritage and opinions are different, we can love and count each other for our human qualities. Mevlüt Aslanoglu was one of the beautiful people who deserved love and respect. He was a rare politician who felt warm in my heart when I called him Mevlüt. I offer him God's mercy and my condolences to his relatives and to the Republican People's Party community.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0045par0255	Thank you. Mr. Selfwave...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0047par0258	Thank you. The loss of 301 workers in the Soma mine has shaken all of us deeply, and once again I ask for mercy to all of our children, God, to share the pain of their relatives. For Mevlüt Aslanoglu, Istanbul MP, I also ask for God's mercy. The responsibility of the Soma disaster is not only the company's, but we can clearly see that it is already the state, but especially the Department of Energy and the Ministry of Labor, who have carried out its responsibility in a gravely flawed and incomplete manner. Now is the time for political responsibility to be fulfilled by those responsible at the political level. On the other hand, we need to learn the lessons from today's tragedy. I will only point out two things: We must now sign the International Labour Organization's Security and Health Convention in the Mines. Secondly, our relevant ministries today have been able to secure the mines and other dangerous businesses...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0048par0265	Thank you. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0049par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. My condolences to the families of the miners who lost their lives in Soma, to the working class, to our people. It wasn't an accident, of course it was a murder, it was an open massacre. Those who gave a lifetime for a handful of coal said to them, "Unfortunately, this life did not last very long, but was spent at a young age. In this death, anyone who is responsible for this massacre, who's overprofit, who's negligent, who's negligent, who's willing to overlook, who's prepared, who's privatized, who's neglect in their decisions, their policies, who's moral, conscience, judicial, administrative, criminal, political responsibility must answer to both the people and the Parliament. In order for the work killings to end the mining massacres, our working class must unite, organize, and end the rule of capitalism because we have seen that laws are not enough. Again, my condolences to your friends, loved ones, CHP community due to the death of CHP MP Mevlüt Aslanoğlu. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0050par0274	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0051par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. We are very sad to have lost our beloved Istanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, whose soul I am proud and happy to have known, whose heart is full of human love, and whose heart is full of human love. We also carry in our hearts the pain of 301 workers who died in a work massacre committed by a technical, legal, political, moral chain of intent -- a possible chain of intent -- and I pray for God's mercy on them. It's the result of an unjust and cruel scheme that makes a worker feel less valuable than a stretcher. Unless we internalize that a person's right of life is more important than any other wealth in the world, we can't take the precautions of these accidents, of these possible deliberate murders unless we sincerely believe it. A man's life is worth more than any fortune in the world. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0052par0282	Thank you. Mr. Tamer...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0053par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. My hand is in Soma district of Manisa, and I offer my condolences to our 301 brothers, whom we lost in a mining accident, by God's grace, and to their grieving families. My condolences to the Turkish nation. I also wish him God's mercy and his family's condolences on the loss of our dear brother, Mevlüt Aslanoglu, from the Republican People's Party. I also offer my condolences to the Republican People's Party Group and pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0054par0289	Thank you. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0055par0292	Mr. President, thank you very much. I pray for God's mercy to our 301 brothers who lost their lives in Soma, and to my fellow man. Unfortunately, we're paying a very heavy price for living in this country. After great disasters, we grieve, we wear black clothes, but unfortunately, even though we always know that mourning and black clothes do not provide insurance against disasters, we share that pain after disasters. And today, yes, the day is the day to make the pain a partner, but I believe we need to be partners in order to make sure that these disasters don't happen again. I'd like to say again from here that we'll miss you very much. May they all rest in heaven. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0056par0297	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0057par0300	Mr. President, we've had a disaster, a job murder, which says I'm coming to Soma. Soma was two colors: one was the color of coal that was planted on the faces of our miners, and the other was the color of the brides with pacifiers with milk cut off, and the mothers with mourning, and the sons of orphans with paleness. At first, I curse the murder of Soma and this job that is all over our land, which has left the whole world saddening. He prays for God's mercy on our losses, and says to all our wounded and all our workers, "Get well," and to their families, I say, "The kingdom belongs to God." I also accept the condolences of all of our MPs who offer their condolences on behalf of the Somals and ask Allah's mercy and patience for our esteemed MP, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0058par0304	Thank you. Mr. Wise...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0059par0307	Mr. President, I wish all my fellow workers, who have lost their lives in Soma, mercy from God to their relatives, loved ones, and our nation, patience and condolences. Mevlüt Aslanoglu also walked to Hakk. I wish him God's mercy, his family, and the Republic's People's Party community with patience. Mevlüt Abi and I have served together in the Plan and Budget Commission for seven years since I arrived in Parliament. Mevlüt Abi was a great friend, naive and sensitive, not only a friend of ours, but far beyond that, in his humanity, in his compassion, in his enthusiasm, in his reconciliation. He was a man of the people who loved his people, his government. He orphaned athletes, sports clubs, tobacco growers, chefs, guards, foreign currency victims, many of the community. We're gonna miss her so much, I just want her to be in heaven.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0060par0311	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0061par0314	Thank you, Mr. President. And I, my dear brother Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who is truly a man of the heart, ask God's mercy, and may God make his place a paradise. Again, in Soma, the martyrdom of 301 of our miners has overwhelmed our nation. I pray to God for our martyrs, and for our wounded, and for the speedy healing. Again, one of our workers, who came to testify in Soma, was in Adana. On Friday, we sent our brother Ahmet Çelik to eternity in the village of Karluk, the town of Torunlar, and for three days, all the villages of Adana were educated, and all the villages of their neighborhoods had their funeral prayers performed. All of Turkey has drowned and shared the pain of the law in Soma. Hopefully, God will never bring such suffering again, but I think it's necessary to learn from these sufferings, and those who are responsible must answer to the Turkish justice. God will certainly establish justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0062par0319	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0063par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, last week, I offer my condolences to those left behind by God to our 301 workers who lost their lives in an accident that revealed that technical, administrative and political measures were not taken in time. Hopefully, this accident will lead to a measure of what happens next. Otherwise, many of our people who have survived this accident will continue to feel sorry for their work at the moment. I also ask God's mercy on our brother, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanog, the honest MP who we all believe is gathering on the hard-working, loving and human qualities of our House.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0064par0325	Thank you. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0065par0328	Thank you, Mr. President. We lost 301 brothers last week in a mining accident. I offer God's mercy to these 301 brothers, my condolences to their families and relatives. May God never cause such suffering to our state again. We also lost our dear, dear, dear Mevlüt brother last week. My condolences to Mevlüt Aslanoglu from Allah to his family and relatives. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0066par0332	Thank you. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0067par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the only reality in which capital's unlimited profit and ambition for power leads to the massacre of workers in Soma (May 13th). It's never, never an accident, it's a massacre of human life that's been ignored, that's what's been done. It is the only reality that more than 300 workers have lost their lives. Until the truth is revealed, we will be on the side of justice and truth in the quest for rights. I offer my condolences to their grieving families as I pray for God's mercy to those who have died. In addition, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu, whom we once once again remember, says, "I'm sorry for all of our fellow MPs who have lost their lives."
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0068par0338	Thank you. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0069par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. We've lost a good man, a good man of politics. I'm saying I'm sorry for the head of our coven and his family. I hope Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu's place will be paradise. Pir Sultan Abdal says they beat Demir with iron, one hot, one cold. /They broke a man with a human being,/one hungry, one full./What do we mean to Soma? I mean, if three workers and five workers had walked through the mercy of Soma, would we have meant that? What's the difference between a man who died alone in another mine three days before that and a man who died three days after that on his way back to agriculture and a man who was a martyr after his work on his tractor? Isn't Soma run by the private sector? Or is it that the state, today, acknowledges the mistakes of the government in Soma, and puts meaning into Soma? So I feel that all of this should be evaluated in a proper sequence of logic. These people of our country, they're all our citizens.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0070par0345	Thank you. Thank God...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0071par0348	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, pray for the mercy of our fellow miners who were first martyrs in Soma, and for their families, and for the healing of our wounded brothers and sisters. Of course, Soma was a tragedy from beginning to end. When we came across 301 martyrs' coffins, we realized that a disaster was a threat being swept under the carpet. Attempting to be presented as a opposition to the government, the people responsible for the disaster and not being investigated for its reasons, another pain in their conscience emerged as a reality. In this country, however, millions of people with too much moral dough to do politics over deaths have been forgotten. All Soma needs right now is compassion. Mercy and shame will be an ointment for the wounds. After that, financial support must be carried out immediately, both by the state hand and by the NGOs. Anyone who develops hate language over Soma will suffer. It's not segregation over the soma...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0072par0353	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0073par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. My condolences to all our fellow workers who died in the greatest mining accident in the history of Turkey because of great negligence and injustice. I believe we have to do what we have to do before we admit to a fraction of the nation that this great disaster will never happen again. I believe the state will soon heal the wounds of those left behind. Again, our dear brother, who we lost last week, who is tolerant, loving Farid Mevlüt Aslanoglu, God's mercy, his family, and ours.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0074par0360	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0075par0363	Thank you very much. First of all, I ask the great God of our citizens who died in the mine disaster of Soma. I ask the relatives of our martyrs to be patient. Dear lawmakers, human life is precious and entrusted to the state. From now on, I demand from the government that all those responsible in every level who have neglected Soma will be judged for causing death so as not to suffer similar suffering. Dear MPs, I also remember Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, a very dear member of our House which we lost last week, a very beautiful person, a hardworking nation's son, with mercy, and I ask patience for his family and all his loved ones. And here's a proposal: Turkey's Grand National Assembly must live up to the name of Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu. In his person, in order to live up to his political style, his, the House's...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0076par0369	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0077par0372	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear elder, humane, friendly, Istanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Hakk. I ask Allah for His mercy and patience for his kinsmen and for our party. We'll miss you so much, Mevlüt. I also ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives in the work of Soma. My hope is: let Soma be the last, let this be a lesson to us. Let's remove the subcontractor from the mine business force at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0078par0378	Thank you. Mr. Aksoy...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0079par0381	Mr. President, thank you. My condolences to Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu, a valued member of our Parliament, a valued member of the Republican People's Party. Also, what is most important is my condolences for our martyrs in Soma, and for our 301 martyrs. May God have mercy on them. I'd like to express that we bow humbly before the spirituality of our martyrs and bow before the heroic mothers and the heroic wives and children of our martyrs. I don't think it's appropriate to do politics over martyrs, and I don't think it's fair to say that they deserve this pain, and I condemn those who do. As a technical issue of mining, as a subject of engineering, I believe that such accidents will never happen, if such accidents are done seriously, and that this can be avoided if control, control and engineering services are done seriously. The whole world, the developed countries, have done that, too. Finally, we need to learn from this and do the necessary work in the direction that there are no more accidents. I believe similar errors are currently occurring in existing mines. I want to thank you again with the confidence that the necessary inspections by the Ministry of Labor will be conducted immediately and that the measures necessary to prevent them from repeating themselves, and my condolences.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0080par0386	Thank you. Mr. Ironcracker...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0081par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. I too wish the precious, beautiful man, Farid Mevlüt Aslanoglu, God's grace. My condolences on his family, his loved ones, and our Parliament. He was a beautiful man. May God bless him in heaven. Moreover, a week ago, a news from Soma (Soma) struck the heart of our entire nation. After four days of search and rescue, unfortunately, we witnessed 301 of our brothers as martyrs. Our 485 brothers were saved, but we killed 301. May God never show such pain again. I offer my condolences to their families and to our nation.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0082par0392	Thank you. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0083par0395	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I wish all the workers who lost their lives in Soma, my condolences to their families, and my condolences to those who were injured. Of course, this is an important mission to Parliament... when these laws are being discussed, dear friends, I have asked, I have begged, I have begged. The minister was just here, and I asked him when the Health and Safety Act was being discussed, and I begged him, and he didn't get any rest. While we proposed those laws, by meeting with the mining engineers, the Turkish Chamber of Architecture Engineers... the proposals for how to prevent them were rejected here. There's no need to cry now, there's no need to cry, there's no need to cry, we're all responsible here. In the meantime, if we'd passed these laws correctly, we wouldn't have had to mourn today, and we wouldn't have been sorry. We didn't deserve all this grief. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, I also wish my brother mercy.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0084par0399	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0085par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, yesterday was the 95th anniversary of May 19, 1919. First, I celebrate the May 19th Memorial, Youth and Sports Day. We celebrated a bitter holiday, but let's not forget that the beginning of the will that made us exist is the decision of May 19th. May 19, 1919, the decision of the National Liberation War against the invaders was made against the imperialists. May 19th, the process of independence is proof of faith in the existence of a nation that remains motionless in poverty and frustration. May 19th is the resurrection of the bruised, humiliated, scorned national soul, national identity, national morality. May 19th is a harbinger of the national state against surrenderist, compromiser and unsubstantiated governments. The spirit, meaning and determination of May 19th will always be young. I hereby tenderly and gratefully remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, his friends in arms and in litigation.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0086par0405	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0087par0408	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy to our 301 fallen brothers who died in Soma. I offer my condolences to their families and to the great Turkish nation. I don't want any more trouble from the good Lord. He must learn a valuable lesson from this accident. I wish there were no more deaths. Also, my condolences to Republican People's Party İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu from Allah to his family and to the Republican People's Party community. We lost a hardworking, honest brother. Our hearts are burning, and I wish her a place of rest.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0088par0411	Thank you. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0089par0414	Thank you, Mr. President. We've served here for two semesters with Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, last term and this period. Mevlüt was my older brother, who, as all our friends here saw, had very different qualities. A friend of ours also noted that in society, Turkey, there was the voice of the oppressed, the not-wanted, the not-so-talked parts of the community. Our neighborhood chiefs, village chiefs, night watchmans, amateur sports clubs, every one of them had a voice here. He had a very special personality. Without a political distinction, I know that all of our MPs love and respect him. So I ask for God's mercy, and I am sorry for all of us. As I was listening to the Minister, I thought... there's absolutely no doubt that the responsible will answer, and then the measures will be taken. I'd like to believe that, hopefully, it'll be done and those words won't stay in the air...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0090par0418	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0091par0421	Thank you, Mr. President. I am deeply sorry to have lost my brother, Farid Mevlüt Aslanoglu, whom I am honored to work with. I offer my condolences to his family, I wish him mercy, I wish him a place in heaven. In Soma, the death of 301 brothers who were forced into the mine because they couldn't feed themselves from farming is not an accident, it is murder, not an accident, but murder. I wish our martyrs mercy, my condolences to their relatives, my condolences to the wounded. This continues to be Turkey's destiny. It was on the poster that MADEN-İSK made years ago, just before September 12th, when an accident took place: I, my people, am not counted by fingers. There's a shining power in my voice Dead, brave, shadow and ice, anything. And the people are buried in the ground How can wheat bear its sprouts? He pierces the silence like a twist We are the people, born again in death.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0092par0439	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0093par0442	Mr. President, thank you. I wish God's mercy to our fallen brothers, who died in the mine, and to the wounded, and to the poor. Again, the death of Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, who was an Istanbul MP in the 24th and 22nd term, upset us all. We'll all miss his phrases. My condolences to the family of my dear, hardworking brother, who knows how to heal, the Malatians. Our pain is great. We're at the end of the line. I wish him God's mercy again.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0094par0446	Thank you. Mr. Mazcıoğlu...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0095par0449	Mr. President, thank you very much. I ask God's mercy to our dear brother, Mevlüt, who is both Malatya and Istanbul MP. He had a special place with Gaziantep, and the Gaziantep industrialists, and we had many conversations about him. May God make his place a paradise. Also, I wish God's mercy to our 301 mining martyrs, my condolences to their families. I don't want my people to put this kind of pain into our country. I was in Soma for two days. When I got there and saw that our other officials, especially our Minister of Energy, were working there, I thought, "God help us and help us." They've done a really bad job. I'm sorry for Turkey's loss. I don't want God to put you through this again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0096par0454	Thank you. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0097par0457	Mr. President, this fire in the Soma accident has especially burned the Balıkesir counties. We have many lives lost in Ivrindi, in Wartepe, in Dursunbey. Mass funeral prayers have been performed. The account has not been questioned in these accidents for ten years, in accidents that have resulted in death, the question has been asked. In 2010 we lost 17 lives in Dursunbey, and the court still has not been concluded. This is encouraging to investors of this type who are not taking precautions, where people have no value. It means that there is no value. I want Parliament to take serious measures in this sense, give the government access to research proposals, and that issue to be evaluated here. Because of the death of Mr. Aslanoglu, the people are deeply grieved in Malatya, especially in Puturge, which has passed on a great service. I wish Mr. Aslanoglu his mercy...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0098par0462	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0099par0465	Mr. President, thank you very much. First, we regret the loss of our beloved MP, Farid Mevlüt Aslanoglu. My condolences to his family and all his friends, and I wish you patience. Yesterday, at the same time, was the 95th anniversary of the beginning of our National Liberation War, May 19, 1919. With the pain we've suffered in Soma, we've celebrated this holiday, and I think we've come to the end of our national day. However, I think it is necessary for all people to know that in the light of the Salvation War, the mind and science should have dominated this country, but unfortunately, it didn't, because of the great disaster and the work killings in Soma. Revolutions were that important in terms of intelligence and science. I also want to say that we also have a martyr from the servant, Abraham Apprentice, our mine martyr. I am Abraham Apprentice...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0100par0470	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0101par0473	Thank you, Mr. President. On May 13, 2014, the heart of all 77 million came down with a flame of fire, and instead of coal, charred dead bodies emerged from the mine. My condolences to our 301 citizens who were killed in the accident at the mine and to the Turkish nation. Why do we always have these accidents? Without asking why do we always have them? If we continue without taking the necessary precautions, we will continue to call business accidents in the literature, as someone has always said. Meanwhile, we have lost in particular the Istanbul MP of the Republican People's Party, all of us's most valued older brother, Mevlüt. My condolences to him, his family, his loved ones, the Republican People's Party Group and the great Parliament. May he rest in peace and rest in peace. He was an exemplary man, so may he rest in peace.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0102par0476	Thank you. Mr. Ediboglu...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0103par0479	Thank you, Mr. President. And I say to my beautiful brother, Mevlüt, that his place may be in heaven, and I ask his relatives for patience. We're gonna miss him so much. Our country has failed to prevent business accidents. Working at the mine has taken some risks, of course, but it has appeared once again in this accident that we are not able to manage them well. The summation of Soma is: Taking precautions in the mines requires expense. It's better to spend people than spend money. Business accidents are common in workplaces where work safety is not enough, professional ignorance, negligence, carelessness, abuse. Today, in the mining business, I strongly condemn those who have been the lawyers of the company from day one, instead of discussing the scientific work of the modern world, the necessary measures to be taken, the measures to be taken, the actions to be discussed, the soma martyrs.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0104par0483	Thank you. Mr. Sun, come in.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0105par0486	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we are deeply sorry for the loss of Republican People's Party MP, Kalander human, hardworking friend, compatible human Mevlüt Aslanoglu. We wish him mercy from God, and patience for his family, and for his kinsmen. Recently, we lost 301 lives in Soma. Now we're in pursuit of a legal process. The legal process is to look for and find the person responsible within the rule of law, but if there is no workplace security, the employee's legal arrangement for working security and safety in the working process, then there is a political responsibility; this political responsibility is to be found. Unfortunately, in Turkey, your legal arrangements for labour safety are insufficient...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0106par0490	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0107par0493	Thank you. First of all, I ask for mercy on all our citizens who were martyrs in the disaster in Soma. Again, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu died of a sudden heart attack on Friday morning. Mevlüt Aslanoglu was a brother of ours who had been in politics together since 1998. We can say that he was a very unique person. He wasn't the usual politician. He was a man of love. He was a man of tolerance. He was a man who looked at everyone the same way. He was the one who put his Malatianism on the line everywhere. He was, as he called him, a madman of Malatiah. He was the father of Malatiah. He was, in his own words, a modern beggar. During his time in politics, he took from the rich, gave to the poor, stood by the poor, and made unforgettable investments in Malatya, leaving unforgettable marks. In Turkey, unfortunately, the Malatians loved a brother, a father they loved very much. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... lost a brother they loved so much. I wish you mercy again.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0108par0499	Thank you. Mr. Akdağ...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0109par0502	Thank you, my dear President. I wish all our brothers and sisters who died in a sad mining accident in Soma. I wish all the wounded, all the miners, and their families all the best. May the Lord grant patience to their families and relatives. I believe that our Parliament, our government, our ministries will take further measures to prevent any of these major accidents. Mevlüt Aslanoglu was a brother, our MP, who caught the attention of all our friends, a brother who was a brother who was told that everyone would be grateful to die. Really, I had a very close law with him, especially because of his illness. He was a model figure in his compromise identity, in his usual sense of politics. I ask for God's mercy, and my condolences to his grieving family and to the Republican People's Party community.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0110par0505	Thank you. Mr. Millerdere...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0111par0508	Thank you, Mr. President. The true value, not fills a void in its presence, but is felt in its absence, says the poet. Indeed, my brother Mevlüt Aslanoglu, the wreath politician, is also a person who will be lacking in Parliament, so let there be light. My condolences to the families of the miners we lost because of the great pain we suffered in Soma. For the past two days, I have visited the families of our miners who lost their lives in Soma, and I have observed this expectation: I think that our Parliament has an important duty, and that this is the only way we can ease the suffering. To take care of the miners' children, to solve their education, health problems, and to find jobs in the government when they're 18.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0112par0513	Thank you. Dear Silver...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0113par0516	Thank you. Dear member, dear politician Mevlüt Aslanoglu will be remembered in Turkish political history for his social intelligence and hard work, I say God rest his soul. For five days we've been visiting mining families in Balıkesir, the families of our fallen miners. Friends, we haven't seen any psychological support on these visits and experts visit these families, and what we've heard is that they say that there are contractors in the mine, and they count to 20. There have been no investments in shelters, and because of that and because our country does not accept many international standards, it is remembered with Afghanistan and Pakistan, which is the shame of Turkey, especially the government. The government is trying to get away with it, but it won't be able to get away with it this time.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0114par0520	Thank you. Mr. Akbulut...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0115par0523	Mr. President, thank you. I ask God's mercy on our 301 martyrs in Soma, and I offer my condolences to those who are left behind, and our suffering is great. I also want to thank Mr. Taner Yildiz, the minister of energy and of course, who led this crisis immediately, with a good coordinate. In addition, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, a very dear MP, has passed away. My condolences to the entire Republican People's Party community, to his family, to his place in heaven. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0116par0527	Thank you. Mr. Selfwave... Mr. Günay, will you speak?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0117par0530	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0116par0531	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0117par0533	Mr. President, dear friends, this time last week in Soma a part of the jihad was destroyed. We have martyred more than 300 of our brothers, and I cherish them. Dear Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, I also remember my brother with mercy and love and gratitude. May God not show our nation such suffering again, nor will anyone else's Niyaz be my Niys. But one thing I'm concerned about: Soma happened on the 13th, a week ago, two days before Soma, on May 11th, the anniversary of Reyhan, none of us remembered. No one remembers how long it's been since the nation. Our children died in Opium, and we don't remember that. So let these pains not burn where they are, that these pains may scorch our hearts, that we may learn from them, that we may learn from them, that there may be no new suffering. Let's take another lesson: It's not every criticism made in Parliament, not every charge is wrong, not every motion of question is to avoid a ban...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0118par0538	Thank you. Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0119par0541	Thank you, Mr. President. The mining disaster in Soma (Soma) shocked us in the hearts of the nation. We have sent 301 miners, including our Bartunese miners Mithat Ozdirik, Osman Özgün and Aydın Özgün, to eternity. I offer God's mercy to our mine martyrs, my condolences to their families and to our nation. I believe those who neglected business security in the accident will be exposed in the result of a forensic and administrative investigation. I mean to make sure that there are no more accidents, and I hope to God that our nation does not suffer like this. In addition, Istanbul MP Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who lost his life, I wish our brother God's mercy and his condolences to his relatives.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0120par0545	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0121par0548	Mr. President, dear friends, I ask God's mercy for 301 of our martyrs who died in Soma. In Soma, all our ministers, institutions and organizations, especially our Minister of Energy, had started a campaign to heal the wounds there. Hopefully -- our state of the Republic of Turkey is a great state -- and I believe that our wounds there will heal. And as Congress, I believe we can all do the necessary legal work here, so that there will be no more defect-based mass killings in the mines or other institutions. Turkey, the total Turkish nation, has acted in unity; I humbly congratulate you. We share our sorrows, I extend our condolences to their families once again. I also ask Allah's mercy on our dear brother, Istanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, and my condolences on his family.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0122par0552	Yes, thank you. Last word, Mr. Bostanci. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0123par0556	My condolences for Soma. There are 17 million households in Turkey, I suppose there are no houses without tears. But the meaning of this tear is that if it gives birth to a political mind that prevents tears from being shed after this, then it will sit in a meaningful place at work. I think there's that mind in Turkey, with its power and opposition. Mr. Aslanoglu, I wish you mercy. Some people, you see, leave a glittering trail behind them, people from all over the world are talking about it today. It's a blessing, and it'll follow after death, and it'll be in your notebook. May God make us all of these people. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit01spe0124par0559	Thank you. Congressmans, we have lost our fellow miners at Manisa Soma, who have bled our hearts and drowned our country, so we are in eternal sorrow. I believe we will learn the lessons of the state and the nation from this catastrophe that enshrouds our entire nation. I wish our martyrs mercy from the great God, and my condolences to our people and to our nation, and to their place in heaven. Aslanoglu, who was a member of Istanbul from 2011-2014, established a seat in the hearts of our nation and lawmakers, adopted that serving the nation was a service to the people and to the people and to the people and to the people. My condolences to Farid Mevlüt Aslanoglu, Allah's mercy, to our Parliament and to the Republican People's Party Group, especially to his family and relatives. Mevlüt Abi, today the General Assembly has been told such beautiful things about you, I wish you rest, rest your soul, and may your place be in heaven. Also, I would like to extend my condolences to our members of lawmakers and relatives to Fikriye Aykiye, the mother of Samsun MP Tülay Bakır. Members of parliament, May 19th is a historic step towards Turkey's hopeful future. I remember the heroes of the Ataturk and the Salvation War, with mercy and gratitude and gratitude, which entrusted us to our heavenly homeland, and also the Memorial, Youth and Sports Day, the 19th of our youth and all of our nation. We're going on the agenda. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0124par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 90th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from EU Integration Commission membership. I'd like you to know what's necessary. 15/5/2014 Yours truly. [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully request and request the opening of Parliamental research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to determine the measures that must be taken, by research on the rigged foods that threaten human health in our country. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ankara]] [[Elizipt]] [[Slap]] [[Kastamon]] [[Tripoli]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Kütahya]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] [[Adana]] [[Inconceived]] 18) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Lug]] [[Mughle]] 21) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] 23) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] More and more are added to the tricks made on food materials in our country. Insufficient audits and simple punishments, rigged foods continue to threaten human health. A report has been issued by the Association of Agriculture of Turkey on what kind of tricks are being resorted to on the food clause. In this published report, the results are very interesting in terms of human health. It is stated that a variety of enzymes and chemicals are used to bleach bread and make it look larger than it is to make it look later. Some food dyes or cocoa are used in special products, such as bran bread and rye bread. The olive oil is said to be mixed with cotton, sunflowers, canola, and the high acid oils that can be used to produce soap are processed and sold as natural infiltration olive oil. While textile dye and chemical dye are used to darken olives and make them bright, the prina oil produced from olive oil from olive oil is recorded as leaking into olive oil. Combined with crushed cheese mixed with herbal oil, it's reshaped. The report states that moldy and stale cheeses have been melted into cream cheese and have been polished by joining lime in the white cheese. It is emphasised that a rash of white cheese with starch and herbal oil is sold as oily jumpsuit cheese and moldy sluts are turned into melted cheese. It is mixed with solid and margarine oil, which gives the impression of oil instead of oil after it's been absorbed. Old or unsecured milk is bought off the record and used to produce deli products, made artificial milk from cheese subwater and milk powder. According to the report, dairy powder is used in products that need milk. The gelatin made from cattle fat is made in powdered yogurt, and yogurt is made to be small and sold as village yogurt. The butter is mixed with potatoes and margarine. While the meat is being tamed, water adds to its weight. Chicken meat, chicken giblets, dyed domestic oil is included. In salami, sausages, and sausages mixed with spices mixed with soy, animal carnivorous waste, internal organs such as lungs, garlic peeled in lime water. The chicken spinner and intestines were mixed into chicken skins and intestines, the report noted, pointing out that expired sausages were made by joining new sausages. A number of pollen, coloring and essences are produced in glucose, including fake honey. For bees to make more and easier honey, beekeepers put sugar syrup or glucose in front of shell casings during the season of honey production. This produces honey that does not have real honey properties. The honey with Petek is cheaper to use a honeycomb when it should be made of pure honey wax. The red pepper is included in foreign substances colored with tile powder or chemical dyes. The black pepper is mixed with paint materials and colored foreign substances. In addition, the report states that herbal spices are mixed with dried grass. For this reason, a parliamentary research commission will be established in our country under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution (TBM) Articles 104 and 105) in order to take the necessary measures to be conducted by research in the areas that threaten human health. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to address the problems of the police and determine the solutions, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under the basis of Article 98 of our Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. 1) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] 6) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Elizipt]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Antalya]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kütahya]] In recent years, suicides have been seriously increasing, depending on the working conditions of our police. According to police headquarters data, around 400 police officers have taken their own lives in the last 15 years. In the first four months of 2012, 12 police officers committed suicide. On the other hand, despite significant developments in our police's training and equipment equipment, the working conditions have yet to reach the desired level. Among the main reasons for suicides are the lack of material conditions, the difficulty of working conditions. In addition, mental depression, psychological problems, and family problems are very effective. The primary cause of mental depression is stress and life problems. Police are considered to be setting the stage for suicide for long-term work, poor diet, and sleep deprivation. The lack of improvement of the rights of the police in a very demanding task puts our police in great trouble in their working lives and pensions. With a rapidly growing population in our country, behaviors considered criminal are increasing rapidly. Our biggest guarantee against these threats is the police force. For these reasons, solving the problems of the police force is of great importance. The reasons for our police' economic and social problems, the measures, solution proposals, and the establishment of the necessary policies, I propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution of the 98th and TBM Institution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the allegations of corruption and irregularity against all municipalities throughout Turkey, regardless of any party, and to take the necessary measures, we demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under the Articles 98, 104 and 105. [[Yalova]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] 10) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Tekirdağ]] 12) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] The institutionalisation of our democracy depends largely on the success of local governments. Therefore, allegations of corruption and irregularity regarding local governments must be dealt with and concluded by authorities immediately. However, there have been numerous examples of central power being partisan in these matters, as has not been paid attention and care for many years. According to the Interior Ministry's statement, after the elections held on 29/03/2009, 2,697 procedures against mayors have been approved, 2,690 investigation/preliminary reviews and preliminary examinations have been approved and 1,034 of them are not allowed to investigate, 1.097 are allowed to investigate. In addition to these decisions, there are 559 cases being filed, which have been submitted to Republican prosecutors, governors, subsidiaries and relevant institutions. These figures also show that the number of allegations of corruption and corruption against municipal governments is high. The Interior Ministry, which is tasked with overseeing these allegations, appears to have been partisan in the face of allegations, using its authority for more opposition municipalities. The figures in the ministry's official figures are: 57.16 per cent of AKP municipalities, 25.53 per cent of CHP municipalities, 8.12 per cent of MPP municipalities, 2.32 per cent of BDP municipalities are not allowed. From the local elections held on 29/03/2009 to 07/03/2012, 36 mayors were suspended. 8 of them are AKP, 6 are CHP, 2 are MPP, 15 are BDP. These official figures of the ministry represent only one aspect of the issue. With the research commission to be established, the opportunity to look under the iceberg can be captured, and this decay in local governments can be solved radically. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions for the opening of the parliamentary investigation will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of lawmakers, Women, Men's Opportunity Equality, Public Economic Initiatives, Plan and Budget and European Union Compliance Commissions also have 1 membership for non-political party members. It is Monday (May 26, 2014) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for these commissions. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion: I'll have it read and processed, and I'll vote for you. The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at a meeting of the Counsellor's 20/05/2014 Tuesday. Mustafa Elitaş Engin Altay Oktay Vural Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president of the vice president group. The General Assembly shall not discuss verbal questions in Tuesday/05/2014; in order to determine the measures that must be taken by the Manisa MP Sakine Öz and 21 MPs, the reasons for the mine accidents in Soma. Manisa MP Özgür Special and 51 MPs, in order to determine the reasons for the accident in Soma district; in order to investigate the investigations of the mines and the reasons for the processing of the operations of the operations of the premises and the actions of the premises of the Member States; in accordance with the investigations of the operations of the Commission; in accordance with the investigations of the Commission's institutions; in accordance with the investigations of the operations of the European Member States; in accordance with the investigation of the Commission; in accordance with the investigation of the Commission's European Commission's European Commission; in particular, the investigation of the Commission has been carried out of the Member States's Membership of the Commission. In Wednesday's merger of 21/5/2014, the Court will continue its work until the completion of the selection for five empty memberships. Parliamentary Research Commission Reports No. 454, distributed on 427 and 30/05/2013, on 26/03/2013, were recommended to be included in the agenda "Personal Affairs on the Special Agenda" and to meet with the General Assembly on Thursday 22/05/2014 and to continue its work until the meeting is completed. Engin Altay, Sinop MP, asking for a recommendation from the Council.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0125par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we've left a very bitter week behind by the nation. Our pain is fresh, our sadness is deep. We lost 301 citizens in the largest mining massacre in the history of the Republic. First of all, we're going to do what we have to do in law and politics to make sure that the wounds are covered, and then the responsible, and the imperfect, and we think they are -- that the criminals are exposed and accounted for. May he rest in peace and rest in peace. Don't let God put our people through that kind of pain again. Members of parliament, our Manisa MP, Free Special, brought this matter to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on April 29, 2014, and our MPs have demonstrated this high sensitivity, risk, danger in Soma. However, with the majority of the ruling party votes, our Manisa MP, there is a problem here, let's look into it, let's get the Parliament to help us, let's have some information. The ears that have been jammed in his cry, unfortunately, three or five days after the passing, revealed how justified our MPs, our Manisa MPs, were, and how highly sensitively they brought a tragedy here in the constituency zones to get results. Now, in the advisory board proposal, which I have signed, when we look at it, the offer of the Free Special (Special) with Sakine Öz and Hasan Ören has come again with the signature of your group's deputy. What happened? We were right. If only we hadn't gone out, I wish I hadn't signed under a council like this. Congressmans, when we look at these issues, we need to look beyond political debates. We're talking about the national will of this Parliament as it's always been said, there's no greater force than here. Every state and condition of the nation that has sent us here, it's the primary work of Parliament to study it closely and deeply. Now, we've co-signed on this, but our partnership is only in this signature, so it's about the fact that we're here in spite of everything, and the grief. We're partners in mourning, I have no objection. I have no doubt that the hearts of lawmakers of the opposition party are as hot as they are, but the burning of hearts solves nothing, lawmakers. Look, from this point on, it's very important to establish a parliamentary research commission in the Soma area... and when you look at it, it doesn't make any sense, because Soma is now an investigation. Just as we have, in the control mechanisms of the House, the oral question, the written question, the research motion, then the inquiry motion, and then the gene, soma is already a walking business investigation in Soma. I consider it my duty to remind you that the study of the Parliament is a study of a specific subject. There is, in fact, a parliamentary research commission established in this Parliament in 2010 and a report as thick as this one has been published. Now I didn't bring him with me. But nothing is being done here, Council of Ministers, with these commissions being set up and published reports being discussed according to the Civil Code. There are legal shortcomings in the middle, as we say on every occasion. I mean, there are laws that need to get out of this Parliament, immediately and immediately. You took it slow on that one. You've got the laws you want here, you've got this coven running till 5:00 in the morning, but for some reason, you haven't come to the point. There's a lack of control. The ministers of the executive body sitting at this time are in a situation where they do not perform the duties given to them by law, by the Constitution, or by doing so. However, Mr. Energy Minister gave us a very good briefing on the mine when we went to Soma, with our President-General, such as the four-quarters, such as a perfect mine. However, I'm looking at it now, the ruling party company put it in the mouth of the ball in the media. Okay, the owners and the authorities, of course, will answer to the court, but there's also a political account. It is those who sit at this time who will give the political account, and there should be no hesitation in asking the people who will answer to this political account with the power of this House. Our friends will soon address their technical, human and legal dimensions. Look, lawmakers, this is what happens in developed countries: first the risk areas are determined, then the workers are put in the mine. How is it in Turkey? First we put the worker in the mine, we expect an accident, and then the government strategizes the mines after the accident. Is that even possible? I just watched on TV, Poland and -- I think -- the Czech Republic shut down their mines because they wouldn't apply the European Union's criteria for their mines in the norms, so the investment in the mine was higher than the profit from that mine. I can't run this mine in these criteria, it says it's already out of life. But Turkey is building a monopoly on certain companies, on certain families. I've just received a phone call from the same family in Amasya, and in Yozgat, who are said to have been running mines by the government either in redevence or in different ways. We need the government to come in here and answer. Now, members of lawmakers, unfortunately, Turkey did not see the compassionate face of the state, the caressing hand, and the warm breath of the state, along with this pain. Now you object. We give hot food every day. I'm not talking about hot breath, I'm talking about hot soup. Your government and the Prime Minister have shown a slap, kick and punch in Soma. In Soma, we saw a slap, we saw a kick, we saw a punch. Congressmans, democracy is a protest and reaction regime, but your government cannot tolerate it. If a government that doesn't tolerate protests and reactions is at work, there's no democracy there. And you need to invite your government to be a little more patient about it. Politics is a matter of courtesy and conscience; neither does the Prime Minister. Now, there is a lot of news in the press about the Prime Minister slapping or punching a person or someone in Soma. Point is, he smacked and punched. I'm now waiting for the Prime Minister to come out and apologize to the people he slapped or punched before he came to this General Assembly. If Mr. Prime Minister Soma doesn't apologize to the people he slapped or punched, I will no longer call him Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. So, on every occasion, you're going to say the national will, the national will, you're going to bring it forward in everything, and then you're going to slap those people over a bit of a reaction because people in pain, in grief, in grief, showed a little reflex. I know some history, and we all know that Hitler and Mussolini and Stalin didn't do such things. In democracies, prime ministers can't slap or punch their citizens. If he does, there's no mention of democracy there. I declare that if the Prime Minister comes in here and sits at this time without an apology, I will strongly protest against him. I declare from here that I will not use the title of Prime Minister when I speak of him without making amends. I will refer to him as Recep Tayyip Erdogan. It's my democratic right.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0126par0220	The person said there was no such thing.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0125par0221	A Prime Minister who calls himself national will, national will, has no right to slap a person who reacts to him.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0127par0222	There's no such thing. The person said it. He didn't hit me. He said. He said he was sorry.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0125par0223	There is such a thing, Mr. Recep, and you know it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0128par0224	He didn't toss it. He said, he made a statement. The person who made the statement said, "There is no tokat."
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0125par0225	And apologies don't shrink the Prime Minister; he's human, he can't control his ego, he can't control his anger. I want an apology from the Prime Minister on behalf of the great Turkish nation, and I will not call him Prime Minister unless he apologizes.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0129par0226	I was pressured by the media, he said.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0128par0227	The person made a statement and said, "There is no such thing."
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0125par0228	My respects.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0130par0230	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0131par0231	On the recommendation of the Council...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0130par0232	Do you wish to be defamed, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0131par0233	Mr. President, there's no argument against...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0130par0234	Mr. Elitaş, there are two applications to the Council of Counsellor's proposal, Mr. Altay in favor, Mr. Vural in favor. If you want it against me, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0131par0236	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0130par0237	Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP, who has asked for a motion against the Council's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0131par0240	Mr. President, this is actually one of the issues we've discussed. In the Civil Code, the signatures of political party groups together should not be discussed in favour or against. Because there are four political parties here, five will be the signatures of five political parties. To speak in favor of an advisory committee that we've made a decision to do together, to speak out against the Council of Counsellors we've made with the Alliance, to explain, perhaps, in your favor, but it's probably not possible.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0132par0241	Don't talk.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0131par0242	We might be able to talk about it because it's on.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0133par0243	As a congressman, he may have objections. Why? Does he have to abide by the group's decision?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0131par0244	Look, precious lawmakers, one of the most important sensitivities of the Turkish nation, which we don't want, which we don't approve of, is that we don't take the opportunity out of suffering, that we don't turn events into opportunities, that we don't turn it into ranta. In particular, it is one of the things that our nation does not approve of when it uses the votes of this nation in a democratic way to turn its votes from pain into a target and turn it into another party into a target.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0134par0245	The government resigns all over the world.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0131par0246	Mr. Altay said here just now: "We're setting up a research commission, there's no telling what the results of the research commission will be." In 2010, a truly excellent research commission was established under the chairmanship of our beloved Bursa MP, Altan Karapaşaoğlu, and a detailed report was prepared. As a result of that report, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey assessed those views, and the delegation of opposition, power, all political parties recommended them. Taking these recommendations into consideration, the government carried out Law 6331, the Law on Occupational Safety. There may be shortcomings in the law, there may be many, but that law is one of the most important laws in the history of the republic today on business security. Those who have been in power before, or those who are interested in this matter, of course, know about it. Look, valuable lawmakers have been rejected by the EC PARTY on April 29th, especially after the Soma disaster. A negative propaganda has been issued.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0134par0248	You did.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0131par0249	Here's what he says if the motion we made on April 29th had been accepted. Dear lawmakers, that motion was only a motion for one firm. In Manisa, in Soma County, a mining company called the Soba... you'll understand more if you read Hasan Bey. Mr. Group Vice President's editorial says that the reason for the accidents that occurred in the mine is to be investigated, not the other mining businesses in Soma.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0135par0250	You're completely lying. Don't be shy!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0131par0251	See, on May 13th, the business where the mining accident took place was publicly presented in the press as the best equipped business in the media, the best equipped enterprise.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0252	Did you read it?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0135par0253	You must have read it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0254	Have you read it, Mr. Elitaş? Have you read it?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0137par0255	Haydar, you don't know their history.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0256	Did you read it?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0137par0257	Do you know when that motion was filed?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0258	Did you read it?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0137par0259	Do you know when the motion was given? You don't know that either, you just know how to talk.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0260	I know. Did you read it?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0137par0261	Do you know when the motion was given?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0138par0262	October 23rd.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0263	Here, here. I'll have my motion in a moment. Then I will see your sincerity.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0137par0264	See, on May 13, 2014, the mining business where the accident took place was considered the most modern mining operation.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0265	Do you know how many mines there are? You don't know the world.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0137par0266	In fact, the universities set an example for their students of that mining operation.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0267	You're showing it, you're showing it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0137par0268	Look, the precious MPs...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0270	Read it, read it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0139par0271	Read it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0272	Read it, read it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0140par0273	I've read this.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0136par0274	Read it, people.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0140par0275	The mining business in Soma was cited as an example. If you understood that...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0141par0276	Read it, people.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0140par0277	I'll read it now, you don't know what you're writing.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0141par0278	You read it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0140par0279	It was given to you, and you signed it. You don't know what you're writing.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0141par0280	Get out of here! See who signed it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0140par0281	Do you know when this motion was made by our screaming friend?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0141par0282	October 23rd.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0140par0283	It was given on 20/11/2012. A motion issued on 20/11/2012, two and a half years ago. They made another motion after him. They filed a motion on 23/10/2013. When did this come up? On 29 April 2014. But that day we agreed with the political party groups. Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Animalism has gone to all political party groups. We will discuss the law of farming on land. I beg you, if you have any opinions, suggestions on this matter, let's take it out together. It's an important law. He said that all political parties reported their positive opinion in this framework. We brought it up on Monday. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey will speak on Tuesday and on that week, starting with April 29th. This motion was made on that day only -- my friend, the people, here -- to make a local policy, is nothing more than a motion. To be honest, it's nothing more than an opportunity to lay on a motion on it from 20/11/2012 to this day, to bring it here, completely covered up, without protest, on April 29th, and to come up with it as another suggestion to change the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0142par0284	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0140par0285	I'm guessing, if I remember correctly, the other political party groups didn't have any Council recommendations that day either. Only the Republican People's Party. I'd like to get my fellow MPs to talk about it. Look, dear friends, on Monday (April 28th), the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is divided between all political party groups and the ruling party group's deputy leaders. And on Monday, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Mehdi Eker visited all political party groups, and told them, as of this week, if possible, let's discuss the collective law in agriculture tomorrow, the law that has changed the law of inheritance. He said, "This has happened with the acceptance of our political party groups." Dear MPs, in this sad incident today, which has led us all to a deep loss in Soma, which has led us all to a great deal of pain, in which we will meet with the motions of the research commission, which we think is good, that we have with Law 6331, which we think is good, but that there are flaws, in which 301 of our people are martyrs, if there is one missing, what are the legal regulations about it, to establish the research commission in order to create its legal infrastructure. Look, what does it say at the bottom of this motion? Mr. Hasan brought it in, all the business accidents in the mines in Soma............ the accident didn't occur until May 13th, until that day..... from 2011 to 2011.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0143par0289	Who says he hasn't come?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0140par0290	From 2011 to this side of May 13th, there was no such thing as...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0144par0291	Read the rest, is there or isn't there? Read the rest.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0145par0292	Read the gold.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0144par0293	..that such incidents should never happen again.....
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0146par0294	I'm warning you, there's been an accident in Mining. As a matter of fact, it says here that a coal mine owned by a private company operating in the village of Darkale in the Soma Darkale area was conducted in 2005, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and then closed down to the company.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0145par0295	There's talk of an inspection.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0146par0296	No, he's saying this thing, I'm reading your motion. I'm reading your motion. So Mr. Hasan, you're not aware of the motion you've brought? I'm reading it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0145par0297	There it is. It's not about mining.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0147par0298	There was one last word.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0146par0299	I'm reading your motion. So, my dear lawmakers, if there's a legal flaw here, we need to strive to address this lack of law. On the other hand, what happens if Mr. Engin Altay tells the Prime Minister, "Prime Minister", but respect and decency...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0148par0302	Yeah, well, he should apologize. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0146par0303	I call Mr. Kilicdaroglu out of respect for the voters of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, but whether you say so or not, nothing will happen to Mr. Prime Minister. Oh, you know that, too.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0148par0304	I mean, the Prime Minister can beat you if he wants to, right? Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0149par0305	You say the general manager, Mr. Prime Minister says the general manager.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0146par0306	Two: Allegedly, the person who was referred to there, stood up on TV and said: "Even though some media organs warned me, Mr. Prime Minister attacked me, punched me. Despite my desire to correct it, they did not correct it. And he gave his statements on TVs, written and verbally, as well.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0150par0307	Is that justice or is that justice?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0146par0308	You don't see him, but one of them says, "This is how the Prime Minister got up, slapped him, punched him. You're trying to make politics out of things that don't exist."
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0151par0309	The man's head hit the Prime Minister's hand, damn it!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0146par0310	Politics made from things that do not exist does not show any lack in the power of the EC PARTY, but strengthens the power of the EC PARTY. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0152par0313	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0153par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0152par0315	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0153par0316	Sir, Mr. Elitaş made an assessment in his speech: Mr. Free Special, our Manisa MP Mr. Hasan Ören and Manisa MP Mr. Sakine Özine and Manisa's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation due to the fatal events in the mines in Soma
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0152par0317	Here you are, Mr. Hamzacebi, for two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0153par0320	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the petty thief, will crush the landlord. You guys should be out here apologizing. On 29 April 2014, we apologize to the nation for voting no to this motion. You should have said that to the family of 301 citizens, but now you want to step on it in a cooked way. It doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit the memory of the dead. You've made a smart move, and now you're combining our motion with the motions you made in a hurry after those deaths. Yes, of course let's investigate them, no one says to be investigated, but we said we'd look into it without the killings. It's clearly in the motion. I read the last sentence of the motion exactly: "In order to investigate the causes and causes of all the work accidents and deaths that occurred in all the mines of Soma, " you rejected it at that time. On April 28, 2014, on April 29, 2014, a platform under the Reservative of Business Accidents Platform visited all political parties, as well as the EC PARTY Group. They were the families of the workers who died in the fires in Ostim. Our wives, our children are dead, but they said no one should die again. And April 28th is also International Business Health and Safety Day. So on April 29th, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I brought Soma's motion not only to be limited to Ostim, but to cover the whole thing. You're saying to block it. We immediately supported the Earth Protection Act as the Republican People's Party Group. A group of people who want to block the agenda of Congress wouldn't do that. But 301 people are dead, and you can't even show the decency to apologize. I can't talk because I don't have time. There's so much to talk about. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0154par0325	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0155par0326	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0154par0327	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0155par0328	Mr. President, I condemn the ruling party to accuse the opposition of turning pain into opportunity to cover the government's flaws. Whoever wants to turn the pain of Soma into an opportunity, God damn him and them. Two: I didn't punch the Prime Minister and/or punch him. If he does, I'll take it back. Why doesn't the Prime Minister say I didn't slap him? I didn't throw it away. I apologize to the Prime Minister. If he doesn't say so, he's going to apologize to these people.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0154par0330	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0156par0331	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0157par0332	The person made a statement and said, "He didn't throw it away."
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0158par0333	Tell him to call me Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0159par0334	His head hit the Prime Minister's hand!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0160par0335	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0161par0336	In his speech, Mr. Elitaş used a statement such as that the motion was signed by me without being read. I just want to answer for it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0160par0337	Here, I promise you two minutes, Mr. Special, for bullying. You don't want a promise to answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0161par0340	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I ask God's mercy and patience for all those who have lost their families in Soma. I'm going to give another speech later on this issue, but the worst misfortune for the AKP Group is that on such a day, they've assigned Mr. Elitas (Administrator of the Group) to the position before this incident. I am truly ashamed for myself and for the sake of the great Parliament that it has been brought to this dimension. Someone must have given the Prime Minister the wrong information about our motion. He said: "The name of Soma is not mentioned in the proposal. We have highlighted it, and in five places, it begins with "Soma" (Soma) and ends with "Soma" (Soma). We looked at the records of the assembly, and Soma said they didn't speak. Then they split the screen in two, including foreign television channels -- the Soma says they didn't speak. It counts as 17 times what I said. At first, it's called the Darkale, the Soma mines below, and then the business accidents in all the mines in Soma, and the fact that there are permanent solutions to the causes of the deaths and that they don't repeat these events. It's called "Mr. Elitaş" but we don't mind his own personal being away, but we don't mind listening to them. A day like this isn't a day for cheap polemics. What would have happened if the first motion that I had signed with 56 friends had been brought up? The headline of today's newspaper, especially the New York Times, and of course, we could not have prevented the accident on the live broadcast of Mr. Ahmet Hakan. The commission would have held its first meeting in Ankara. But it would have been critical to understand the mind. If it had been accepted the day it was given six months ago, if it had been on the agenda, something might have changed. Imagine that a commission between BDP and the MPP, which the AKP and CHP agreed on, went to investigate it, at least they'd clean themselves up. I used the expression. But now he's holding it and he's really moving away. He's not ashamed, I'm ashamed of what I said. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0162par0345	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0163par0346	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0162par0347	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0163par0348	He said to me, "He is not ashamed." He said, "He is not ashamed."
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0164par0349	He's not ashamed. I said.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0163par0350	Plus he doesn't hear anything. He used the expression, "He doesn't feel shame."
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0165par0351	Here you are, Mr. Elistash. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0166par0352	What was the taunt, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0167par0353	I mean, it's over with the teasing.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0168par0355	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, look, we have two motions to discuss today -- one in November 2012, one in October 2013. The fellow who spoke in this motion is referring to Warn Mining. So the content of this motion is...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0169par0356	Read the last sentence!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0170par0357	Him or this, what difference does it make? They're both privatized firms, they both have the same problems. What's the difference? What's the difference?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0168par0358	...the subject that the speaker here wants to underline is Warn Mining. But I'm trying to make a point...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0170par0359	What's the difference if he's Ali? They both have the same problem.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0168par0360	Before the arrival of that proposal on April 29th, we meet with political party groups, and we say, "Let's meet this week, let's do this. We have a lot of research commissions that we've established together.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0171par0361	How many?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0172par0362	How many?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0168par0363	It could be one of those, but, look, I'm underlining again.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0173par0364	They all have rejects first and then they are founded; doping is so, and violence in health is so, and violence in women is so.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0168par0365	The Minister of Agriculture and Animalism visited all political parties on Monday, and he said, "Let's talk about it this week, let's talk about massing in agriculture."
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0174par0366	I'm glad this was discussed.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0168par0367	That's the only time we know what to see when we go to the Council on Tuesday to meet with the Speaker. But political party groups know from the ruling party what the agenda of that week is on Monday. The ruling party, its agenda, its representatives of the group on Monday are calling each other one by one, saying: "This week we will meet with the opposition parties' motions at 2:30 p.m., at the meeting of our Parliament Speaker at 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday, we see them at the Council meeting. You have no preparation, no knowledge, you don't know what it is; suddenly you see a group proposal for a political party group, where we set up a research commission. If that happens, we'll sit down and deal. As a matter of fact, we've set up a lot of commissions so far. How did we set it up? We built it together.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0175par0368	How many commissions have been set up? How many?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0168par0369	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in that sense, I say that saying this is nothing more than turning pain into opportunity. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0176par0372	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0177par0373	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0176par0374	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0177par0375	Sir, once again, he's not reading the last sentence of the motion. The motion given by our Manisa MPs -- in the last paragraph -- is intended to investigate the causes of all the accidents and deaths in all the mines in Soma. Even so, it is not possible to cover up the crime by making a statement of wisdom. They also say that when the Republican People's Party brought this proposal to the Assembly Council on April 29th, we were unaware of it, we were unable to prepare it. It appears that after the death of 301 of our citizens, the AKP was preparing, and came here.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0178par0376	Shame on you! What a shame!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0177par0377	So our 301 citizens were supposed to die to set up a research commission like this? It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0178par0378	What a shame! What a shame!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0177par0379	Look at your proposals, where you used a style to clear the government, and it was all done. In March 2014, everything is clean, beautiful, and this mine uses the latest technology.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0178par0380	We're saying it's alleged.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0177par0381	I mean, God, God, how did this accident happen? I can't fit it. Two motions agree, ours and yours, but they're not the same. Yours is to clear the government. We've made a motion to expose whoever's really responsible. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0179par0383	Thank you. Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir, has asked for a statement in favour of the Council's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0180par0390	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge from our Manisa MPs, Mr. Sumer Oral and Mr. Erkan Akçay, in favour of the Council of Counsellor's proposal for our research proposal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. My respects to all of you. Yes, on Tuesday (May 13th), a week earlier today as Turkey, we were shaken by the greatest mining disaster of the century in Soma. In this disaster, 301 of our miners were martyrs. Together, we suffered a pain that was beyond description. My condolences to all of us. May the righteous give mercy to our brothers who have died in the mine, and to the wounded, and to the sick, and to the sick, and to the sick, and to the patient. Yes, let's not go through that pain again, but let's learn from these sufferings, learn from them, and learn from the great disaster that happened here in history, Soma, with the great stories that actually teach mankind, will never be forgotten or erased by the actions of the government that fear its citizens. In fact, this accident, in a way, has allowed the truth to be faced. Yes, all of this, all of this, as a result of what was not done in some way, is an accident that needs to be learned from the outcome. We may have come after me in Soma. Let me take off my boots, and let the stretcher not get dirty. We also witnessed the disgraces of the miners who taught humanity and the dirty counselors who kicked the bitter Somese citizens. Let me go and save Mahmoud. His wife is pregnant. The miner who said, "What the hell are you running away from?" On the one hand, we owe Soma his sweat, how his bread money was taken to homes at the cost of death, and a credit card against the question. I have to go down to the mine. On the other hand, we've also seen example pictures of the miners who hoarded millions of dollars into the bedrooms of the houses and shoe boxes.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0181par0398	You've made contact, so be it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0180par0399	Who's going to learn from the worker who gave up farming because he didn't feed the land and had to be a miner and buried in the ground? Who's going to learn a lesson from a teacher who's been trained as a teacher, but who's not assigned, who's going to call his livelihood at the mine again and learn from the teacher who lost his life there? We have also seen how those who say that the business in Soma could be model businesses to the world made the same establishment the only scapegoat after the disaster. After a certain time after the accident, who can teach them about the shortcomings the inspector detected? This is what happens in the coal mines for these deaths, that's what happens everywhere. We've seen people say it's common. Dear friends, the same understanding earlier described the irregularities of the Bayram Hotel during the Van earthquake as "appreciative." As a result of this warped understanding, what happened in Soma is an appreciation, not an extremist, but a monstrosity. What lesson did those who wanted to take the motion they rejected yesterday into consideration today after the accident? In the early days, there were many conflicting explanations as to how many were in the mine, how many were killed or injured. During these conflicting explanations, it is clear and clear that the inhabitants of the Soma people were furious, and there was an outburst of anger. When the first death toll was pronounced at 3, then pronounced at 17, don't believe in some creepy digits, other than official numbers in the soma accident. What do those people think when they see our 301 martyrs today? Noting the coming footsteps of the Soma disaster, the motion given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as the National Movement Party, they're making a motion to fill up the bags, the goal of research proposals is to block the Assembly. Aren't the managers who praised this company in the early days, who owned the company from the very first day triggered this tension? If a lamb were lost on the shore of Dicle, in the 600s, not in comparison with the England of the 1860 people who legitimized the deaths of Erdogan, but in the 600s, they would expect me to act as Hazreti Omar, who said, "I am responsible for the loss of a lamb." From this day on, we see that anger belongs to us, to you, to us, to us, to you; to us, to us, to you; to us, to you; to us, to us, to put up; to us, to you; to us, to you; to us, to forgive; to you; to us, to forgive; to us; to us; to us, to the nation; to the nation; to me, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people. Yes, indeed, the compassion of the state, the help of the state, the healing of the wounds, and the next steps, of course, would require us to reduce these pain by sharing it, but how can my dear friends, those kicks, those slaps, especially when a civilian man comes and kicks someone they catch? Aren't we supposed to be paying for this, too? About all of this, we said that Soma was in Soma, with all of the state institutions, in Soma. We said, at every opportunity, we thanked the co-ordinator, but my dear brothers, when we said these things, they didn't even get to the site in the 99 earthquake. What lesson can we really hope to learn from those who tell lies and turn all kinds of disasters into political rantas? Now it's time to share our pain. Of course, all those responsible for this disaster, which, in the face of our suffering, has become almost murder -- technical, bureaucratic, political responsibility -- must be removed and executed immediately, my dear friends. In fact, the nationalist Movement Party's motion for these matters is a very comprehensive one. My dear brothers, it's not just about looking into the cause and consequences of this accident. The operating conditions of this accident, where it takes over this business and where it takes over its industrial relations and working conditions as well as this business administration, are all required to be considered in this research proposal. In this regard, with the desire for profit, what network of relationships are some bureaucratic barriers being removed, and what labyrinths are they passed through? So, the fact that this company is being investigated in the full extent of the circumstances that it's working on, when it's looked at this aspect of the business that caused the accident, all the relationship networks...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0182par0415	Who was the owner of the company in Karadon?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0180par0416	If they are responsible for these networks of relationships, we need to cut their account on behalf of the Turkish nation, as it is the joint motion of all political parties. There's no point in acting on political purpose here, it's the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that protects people's rights, their law. In that respect, this whole thing is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we find it right to bring up this merger motion on the study of sizes, and we say we'll vote positive.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0182par0419	Who was the owner of the company in Zonguldak Karadon?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0180par0420	My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0183par0422	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0182par0423	Who was the owner of the company in Karadon?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0183par0424	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked for a statement against the Council's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0184par0427	Four years and you'll find out. It's been four years, and you're going to pay for it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0185par0428	Who was it? Who was the owner of the company in Karadon?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0186par0429	You've been in power for ten years, why don't you do it?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0184par0430	You're the government, you're the government, do what you have to do. You'll have to do it. If it's been four years, you're gonna give it to me, you're gonna give it to me, you're not gonna talk about it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0185par0431	No, I just asked who owned the company in Zonguldak Karadon.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0184par0432	Shame on you, you won't talk about it, and you won't try to justify it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0187par0433	Mr. Oz, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0185par0434	Yeah, that's what I asked you to answer.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0184par0435	You're going to punish him, you're going to punish him, you're going to punish him. Let's defend him.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0187par0436	Mr. Oz... Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0188par0438	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we share the pain of the Soma people, we carry it in our hearts. Let me make it clear that if four parties in parliament agree on a research proposal for Soma ▪ and the Council of Counsellors is making a decision on this, and this meeting is being launched, do not shut down, do not shut down, do not shut down, do not shut down, do not shut down the live broadcast at seven o'clock.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0189par0440	Mr. Hasip, we're past that.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0188par0441	Don't close them up like a hole in a coal mine, like a tunnel, like a concrete wall. This is the House of People. We're going to talk about the facts here, we're going to talk about all the things that happened, we're going to talk about the reasons, we're going to talk about the precautions, we're going to argue. If you feel a moral responsibility, if you really want to express that your conscience is aching, we're going to talk about all this in this House. We need to be clear about this, we need to speak in public. We need to talk about what party says. We had no intention of taking a stand here on an advisory committee because it's a procedure, no one talks. But, as the People's Democratic Party, when three parties take the floor, we have to remind some of the facts to the three parties of the Assembly. 301 lives, 486 wounded, and Turkey's Coal Company subcontractors. Yeah, she rejected a lot of research proposals, the ruling party's here. You raise your hands like machines. You also rejected Soma. But you brought it today, after 301 deaths, after 301 lives, after 301 young people died from the flu, after carbon monoxide. Well, haven't we established a mining commission on this before? This report was written in 2010, friends, and I was a member of this commission. As Şırnak MP, I and my friends, as Batman MP, were also friends, from the gold mine in Mount Ida, from Bergama, to the explosion in Batman, from there, to all the dents in the coal mines in Şırnak, and many of our motions were combined, and we took part in this commission. Why has this commission report been buried since 2010? It's something every congressman has to do on his conscience to answer for. Look, we've been listening to the owner of the mine in Soma, Soma. But we've also heard the President of the Mining Engineers Room, and there's a very serious warning here, and we've already detected it in 2010. See, what it says is that the dangers of methane gas can be revealed if they are brought into these depths at a later date. In the Soma basin, work should be done on the methane drainage. Well, brother, as we talk about this, we put examples of mining businesses in the countries we go to when we give this report, and about the Mining Law, and about business health and many measures related to social security, and to take care of these coal mines. I've told you five times about the shelter rooms on this stand here, and when we explained on this stand how important these rooms, the living rooms, are to be sheltered in an accident, in an explosion of a gray, you were drinking tea in the lobby. Guys, let's put our hands on our conscience. Today you're doing politics on these pains. Those who say, are cruel, cruel, cruel! Don't you have as much conscience as Kim Jong, the dictator in North Korea? He wept, saying, "In the fall of an apartment building, over 50 people lost their lives there, and I will ask him for his account, and I will bring him to judgment." Well, in the sinking of a ship in South Korea, the President apologizes to the death of nearly 300 students, Prime Minister Chung Hong-won leaves, resigns. Well, if you love your God, all these lives have been taken and all these people have been destroyed. You don't know how many people are on the stove! The engineers don't know, the business doesn't know, the Minister of Energy doesn't know, the Minister of Labor and Social Security doesn't know! The parents are at the door, and they don't know if he's in or out, looking for their wives or brothers! Could there be such a state system, such a social security system? For God's sake, isn't your conscience aching? The whole world knows that methane is measured by computers, by small sensors, by small devices. From the drainage of electricity to the digging of those tunnels, the digs you had dug the coal in those tunnels, they put wood planks in so it would burn fast. However, in a mine in the state of Victoria, Canada, where we traveled, we saw concrete poured out in the tunnels where the fences were hung with iron bars, so that the workers were protected. He that loveth man loveth his labourer, and he that loveth man loveth his soul, and he that loveth his soul loveth his soul; he is not cruel for profit, and for profit's sake. Look, fellas, didn't you give the Prime Minister this power by bag of laws here in 2012? What's that got to do with it? For God's sake, can you tell me why you gave the Prime Minister one-handed authority over the mining licenses? Wasn't the Minister of Labor working, the Minister of Energy not working, the Minister of Environment and Urbanism not working? Leave him alone, isn't the Department of Agriculture and Animalism working too? Why did you block unions in the mining sector that entered the territory of all these ministries, and why did you turn against union rights and freedoms? Can you tell us why people who fought for union rights, who wanted a collective contract, got fired from this job, got thrown out on the street? Well, can you tell us, for God's sake, that the Minister of Energy is leaving six months ago telling us how great that business is? Then we see a minister of energy on the television screens who's always saying: "He's as dead as he is, he's as wounded as this. The good news is we've reached 12 more bodies. I don't want to hear this kind of news. I'm the people's rebellion, I'm the conscience here. When we're not all conscious of it, you'll be paid minimum wage, subcontractors, privatisation, and the laborers you drive into mines under the tyranny and exploitation of the mines. You can't just get up and get your advisors to kick people in pain, you can't punch a Prime Minister like that, your citizens, your security forces, your militia, you can't walk on people, you can't break the bones of lawyers. In this country, people have a power to endure. Rights are responsible for law, for justice, no one is going to stand in the way of that, and there's not enough of a motion to investigate. Here's what we did, there's only one way: the gene, the gene, the gene. So, about the Prime Minister, about the Minister of Energy, we'll remind him of his political responsibility for the Minister of Labour on this stand. We'll talk live like that. If you're not a coward, you don't put it on Monday, you put it on live TV. Let's talk here, let's all come out, let's settle the score, let's bring out the responsible, let's bring out the precautions... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...take care of our worker, take care of our worker. That's the right fight, fellas.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0190par0453	Thank you. I'd like to submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. According to Article 37 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0191par0456	Mr. President, may I have a word, sir?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0190par0457	Here you go, Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0191par0460	Mr. President, this is an important session. We have now agreed on the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on the disaster that resulted in the death of 301 of our citizens in Soma, with the votes of four political parties in the General Assembly; this is a historic session. There is a protocol between the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the TRT on the publication of talks in parliament. According to this protocol: ▪ The talks on Tuesday, Wednesdays and Thursdays will be broadcast by Parliament TV. • However, there is another ruling in the same protocol: if there are important days, important sessions are being held, this will be carried out and published by TRT in the event of the request of the Parliamentary Presidency to be notified by the TRT, and so our request from you will be issued by Parliament TV after 1900. We would like to request that this request be made available to the president of the House and to be made available to the TRT.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0190par0461	Mr. Hamzacebi, thank you. There's a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and then I'll take a break and give the matter to the Speaker, and I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0192par0463	Mr. President, it's a very simple thing, since we've agreed on four parties, let's make a joint motion, let's go live. I don't know the Director General of TRT above this House, I don't know the Speaker of Parliament above this House. Four party groups, if we agree, for Soma, for Soma, let's file a motion together, let's go live.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0190par0464	Thank you. The Civil Charter...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0192par0466	Mr. President, there's no power over the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0190par0467	Here, Mr. Kaplan, the groups are there, and you're there; go ahead, make a deal. We'll announce it from here.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0193par0468	We applied for it, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0190par0469	In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand and demand that my proposal for amendments to Business Law 2/1210 be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Proposal is Haydar Akar, MP from Marseilles. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0194par0481	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask God's mercy to my fellow workers in Soma, who lost their lives on May 13th for negligence and inconsistency, to offer my condolences to the families and to the nation that are left behind. Again, my dear colleague Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who died on Friday (May 16th), wishes God's mercy to his family and to all of us. Yeah, now, we've had a major disaster, it was murder. Why was it murder? Everyone had flaws and negligence in this murder, especially politicians with flaws and negligence. We've been talking about the fact that three of my Manisa MP friends have not been accepted here, that the AKP Group has not. You've developed a defense, and you've developed a defense called "Could this accident have been avoided if we had accepted a motion that had been made 20 days ago?" These accidents could have been avoided if the research motions brought by the Republican People's Party had been accepted. How could it have been prevented? Look, we had a mining accident in Kozlu on January 8, 2013, where we lost lives, lives, and lives. On January 8th, the Minister of Labour and Social Security came to this stand on January 9th, and he made this statement, and I'm reading it on the stand, and he said: "When I went to Kozlu, I saw it clearly." I want to share with you here the decision that if employment is going to take place in such a risky area, it is very, very important that people who are going to be employed in this kind of a subcontractory are formulated, not for profit, but for the first degree of consideration for the techniques there. After the Minister's statement, on January 10th, we downloaded a research motion to the Parliament -- it was submitted by this research motion in 2012 -- in the first month of 2013, on January 10th. Mr. Elitaş, I'm telling you here, don't bother with the other one. Okay, that was the right motion, and that's the right one. I said these things after Kozlu, and we downloaded this motion for him. Accidents were rising in the mine, increasing every year, the number of people who died in the crash. When you look at it, Turkey, in a linear way, was not a coal producer, but was the third in the world in mining deaths, in business accidents, in Europe, the first in the world, because of you -- in fatal accidents -- in Europe, it became the first in the world. Here, we made a motion to prevent these accidents. This motion was rejected by you again here -- so when -- on January 10, 2013. Now, after the Minister has spoken these words, I have prepared a special proposal for this law. I took the Minister's word for it. The minister also said: "We will bring the law on subcontractor work to the Parliament until the 6th month of the 2013, and we will make this law come out of this parliament. We are in the 5th month of 2014. I took the Minister's word and prepared a bill. Now I will see your goodwill. I have brought here today my proposal for a law on the removal of subcontractors and staffing of people who work in heavy labor, as the minister has identified in the mines. Now, we're going to trust your sincerity, and we're going to vote in a moment. If you really feel sorry for Soma, if you really feel pain for Soma, in Soma, Kozlu, in Karadon, in Sadaz, in Afghanistan, in Elbistan, if you don't want new accidents -- one of the reasons is to employ illegal workers, subcontractors -- if you don't want them to die, you will raise your hand to this law, and we will remove subcontracted labor in the mines.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0195par0487	Don't shout, don't scream!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0194par0488	Yes, I speak to your hearts now, and I speak to your consciences, that if you're in pain, you'll accept this law, which will be voted by the President in a moment.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0196par0489	Calm down, calm down!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0194par0490	But, I know you won't accept this law. I'm saying you're one of those people who says it's the will of the people and slaps the people. You're going to teach people a moral lesson, and you're going to throw up a cruel hatred, and you're going to attack people with hate, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0197par0492	Thank you. It's Sakine Öz, the Manisa MP who wants to speak on behalf of a member of parliament.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0198par0495	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, from here today, I feel the pain of being able to address you. It's a really hard day for me, and it's a very difficult conversation. Because, as I was on my way here on May 13th, as I was on my way to Ankara, what happened to me when I went straight to my district really hurt me, really hurt every member of our country. When we arrived in Soma, the hospital was in front of all the Somamites, with the suffering of the whole city, in what is called Mama and Daddy. Everyone was out there looking for someone close, waiting for someone close. There -- and then I learned -- that the mining engineer, the relatives of the mine engineer, who we lost -- was hanging around me, asking if you'd tell me something. When I got to the stove, there was a whole other problem. Everyone expected the people who came out of the furnace alive to be their own relatives. It's a really hard conversation for me to have, really, to underline and follow up on the motions that we've received no response from you. Again, if I may tell you about the events we've been having in our family for three or four days, the drama of your grandmother Sultan is very important to me. Grandma Sultan's Alzheimer's has lost two grandchildren, she's given two, she understands the day, she understands the living, and she mourns the living. He asks his children, his grandchildren, what happened when I was next? Well, I couldn't answer that, to be honest. I couldn't heal the tears of these families. So I demand that you hear us, hear us, and don't try to cover it up by saying, "We were given that day, the motion given a month ago, or the motion made two months ago." From 2011 on, we've kept you informed of the mine accidents in Soma. We've kept asking questions about them. We've made a motion to investigate them. We've asked for burn units behind the fires. But, unfortunately, the new hospital will be built. You've given us answers. As of today, there is no longer any need for a burn hospital in Soma, perhaps your consciences are bleeding by not accepting these motions, but I think you have lost your ability to act by listening to the voice of your conscience. I hope you'll act on your conscience from now on, dear friends. Dear friends, this proposal for the removal of subcontractor practice in the mining sector... we can't say anything about this great mourning that we live in the district of Soma, from the lifebloods of mining. There's little we can say that you'll still refuse to accept this bill. I wanted to talk to you about the proposal of the law, but unfortunately, since it's not allowed for another five minutes, in the next motion, I'm going to tell you again what I said about Soma. My respects to all of you. Please, I don't want to have a disaster like Soma anymore.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0199par0502	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's an open vote request.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0200par0503	All right, fellas, you got it.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0201par0504	Agreed?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0202par0505	Well, we'll make it legal tomorrow. Well, let's get the motion ready to make it legal tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0201par0506	Mr. President, the Justice and Development Party is accepting our motion, sir, and we're withdrawing our request for an open vote.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0203par0507	Yes, Mr. President, do you vote?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0204par0508	All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0201par0509	Mr. President, the bidder will give a thank-you speech, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0204par0510	Two minutes, Mr. Akar, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0205par0512	First of all, I'd like to thank all political party groups for accepting this bill I've given them. It really was an important law proposal for the mines. But I do know that the problem with subcontractors in Turkey is that my friends, the other subcontractors, sometimes texted me because I only made this offer about the mines. I told them that after the Kozlu accident, after the growing mining accidents in Turkey, I offered them the law on the removal of the subcontractorship of the mines, which I thought we might be able to enforce because of the Minister's approach to the incident in this way. Really, thank you for your sensitivity. So I hope from now on, we can avoid subcontractorization, which is the first cause of the deaths in the mines, preventing illegal labor. From now on, what needs to be done is business security. A clause in the Employment Health Act is very important. I believe that if we put together a unanimous proposal of law to the owners and bosses of the responsibility that no boss puts to the occupational safety experts alone, without taking responsibility, I believe that accidents will reach a minimum level in the mines, in other business branches, and will be equal to the European level. This is very important, folks. Guys, this is really a disgrace to Turkey; thousands of our people are dying in business accidents. One item is very important, and it needs to be changed immediately, and I'm saying that it needs to be replaced before a new event happens, thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0206par0517	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0207par0518	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0206par0519	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0207par0522	Mr. President, now, this motion to be taken directly into consideration occurred here again at the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, of course, such a will, above all, will make it legal. I believe that all lawmakers and political parties who vote here will take steps in the matter of law enforcement as soon as possible -- this week -- because it's a commitment. However, I would like to point out that it would be the nationalist Movement Party's choice to complete this with a legal arrangement to remove the entire subcontractorship during these talks, and that we are ready for a joint venture in this regard. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit02spe0206par0524	Yes, thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Vural and Mr. Kaplan, since the session on Tuesday (May 20th 2014) has held talks on the Soma disaster, you have proposals to have the talks published and published by Parliament TV after 1900. I'll take a five-minute recess to see the Speaker.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0206par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 90th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. Hamzacebi, the matter of Mr. Vural and Mr. Kaplan petitioning for the presidency has been addressed to the Speaker of Parliament. Mr. President, in the case of prior deployment, they have stated that the TRT General Manager will be interviewed and agreed on, but there is nothing to be done at this time.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0208par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0206par0006	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0208par0009	Sir, we've applied for the Clave investigations. Mr. President met with TRT, the director of the TRT said he couldn't give it to you because of the broadcast in his article, three days ago, four days ago. On Monday's programme, it also turned out that TRT had no broadcast that day. So that's an excuse. I also address the Justice and Development Party Group, with an offer of law for all parties, come to the TRT 3 channel, which we have assigned to the TRT 3 to inform the nation about the activities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and let us plan its broadcast together, and let the Parliament manage its activities, and let the people know about its activities. Is it to the gentleman's discretion? So they see themselves above the House? Let's end the bureaucratic oligarchy. If Aleppo's there, it's here. If there's a bureaucrat's will there, that's the national will. Come, let's all make up our minds together.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0206par0010	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0209par0013	Mr. President, under Article 37 of the Civil Code, Mr. Haydar Akar's proposal has just been accepted. I'm calling all political party groups from here to the Justice and Development Party Group in this context. Just as we agreed to a consultation board decision for research motions today, let's make its decision in common tomorrow, and let's move on to the negotiations of that proposal here. That's my first suggestion. The second thing I'm going to say, Mr. Speaker, is that if only you'd told me this in advance, I'd have talked to TRT, we'd have published it. Now it's late. So it looks like this: 301 workers have been killed, Parliament's research commission has been established, something like that. So these motions have been brought here, discussed, the Council research commission has been set up. After that, it's just been established... and the Speaker is just making excuses. Soma wants to lose sight of Soma, of Soma. On such a painful day, I can't describe this attitude to the Speaker. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0210par0016	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0211par0019	Mr. President, in a very, very important matter, such as Soma, we've made a motion to submit to the General Assembly's votes on a matter where four parties have co-operated with their research proposals. There is no decision-making authority above the General Assembly, no decision-making authority above the will of the nation. In order for all of our people to know what we're talking about in order to avoid the suffering of Soma. This maturity must be shown by the Assembly. Look, the government is a unconditional nation, he says. That's the word behind you. So, is the government under the authority of the TRT bureaucrat who works with people's money? Is the will of the House General Assembly at the disposal of a bureaucrat, a bureaucrat above the House, or are we going to conduct our work here looking at the pleasure of a Speaker? We made a motion. I want this motion to be submitted to the General Assembly's votes because I want a debate on this motion. I want to know who's running away from this. One fact is, we have to be transparent now, Mr. President and the Speaker of Parliament must not come forward with an excuse for this. We can't talk about something that's burning people's lungs. In an area where people's lungs are burning, you can't say, "Go do it on the Internet." We can't tell people to go over the Internet and watch meetings in Parliament. Today all national channels, all televisions should be open to this Assembly General Assembly, all live broadcasts. Is the live broadcast unique to the Prime Minister? The Prime Minister goes out alone, 26 national channels all shut down, giving live broadcasts, but Parliament speaks of Soma, even the Parliament's television is turned off. That's what I'm here to rebel against. I rebel against it because it is the power of the General Assembly, the will of the nation. This is extortion, extortion! A mugging! A mugging! Mr. President, please put our motion to a vote. Let's discuss this. And if the General Assembly wants to reject the AK PARTY, let them refuse. Everybody, let's know who's open, who's closed, who's running away, who's not running away. Please...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0212par0026	Mr. Kaplan, thank you. I've already read your petition here, addressed to the Speaker of Parliament. I told Mr. President I'd pass it on inside, and I'd see him. Yes, Mr. Altay and Mr. Elitaş were there, they didn't hear the talk, but they heard me speak. If what you're saying is something that will be discussed here and put to the votes of the General Assembly, I'm ready right now, we can do it, but there's no way...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0213par0030	Why don't you let the General Assembly...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0212par0031	Sir, there's a protocol.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0213par0032	After the decision of the General Assembly has been made, the Speaker must carry it out, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0212par0033	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0213par0034	But that's the legal procedure.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0212par0035	There's a protocol with TRT General Directorate on 03/01/1995, broadcast...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0213par0036	We, the General Assembly, do not recognize that protocol.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0212par0037	No, sir, that's out of the question. No, please, but...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0213par0038	We don't know him, put him to a vote, and let the AK PARTY reject him, put him to a vote.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0214par0039	The 5th article...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0215par0040	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0214par0041	Mr. President, there's a 5th Amendment.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0216par0042	We don't know him. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0215par0043	We demand that you present his Fifth Amendment to the information of our MPs.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0216par0044	Is there protocol above people's will?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0217par0045	There's a 5th article, sir, the 5th article.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0215par0046	Mr. President, I'd like you to consider the fifth clause of the protocol you just mentioned...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0218par0047	Yes, it's the 5th article I'm going to read.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0215par0048	We demand that you present it to the General Assembly's information.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0218par0049	I'll read the 5th article, sir. The publication time assigned to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not enough for the reflected operation, and in important and special cases the situation is also assessed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the TRT. Meetings such as the budget, the government programme, the talks of visiting foreign statesmen in Parliament are covered by special circumstances. This is what the statement was about when I opened, when I opened. He said that I had spoken to Mr. President, that he would have spoken to the TRT General Manager if he had been sent before; I've already made this statement.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0219par0051	Can't Congress make a decision about this?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0218par0052	Today is a special day, and I have no objection, and I want everyone to talk, and I want everyone to rest. For the first time in the history of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly, we have promised 70 people.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0220par0053	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0218par0054	It needs to be discussed, but if there's anything I can do, it's okay. If you're saying that I promise you...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0220par0055	Mr. President, then, let's take a vacation now.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0218par0056	Just a second, Mr. Koren, I'll give it to you, just a second... Two, three minutes each, and then we'll talk, and then we'll vote... and don't make me do that, so...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0221par0058	No, our motion is to continue the live broadcast.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0218par0059	It's not a suggestion, sir, no...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0221par0060	Have him refuse. Here, let the majority refuse.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0218par0061	Mr. Kaplan, this leads to other things, and then every subject is brought here, and we're making a motion to...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0221par0062	Mr. President, we've made a motion, vote on our motion, we're open to debate.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0218par0063	It should be in the Civil Code. Here you go, Mr. Könen.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0222par0065	If there's a time-related competition involved, let's take a vacation now, and let's have our Speaker meet with the Director General, and let's share a matter of such importance with our citizens from tomorrow's live broadcast. Six days there...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0223par0066	Yes, I mean, Mr. President, if the Justice and Development Party is doing... shall we do the negotiations tomorrow, if you don't mind? We only have one selection tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0224par0067	Let's do it tomorrow. If you're not running, let's do it tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0222par0068	Mr. President, for six days, Mr. Secretary and I lived there without sleeping with Taner Star. The environment is heavily contaminated with dirty information. If we can't get information from this bench to our citizens in Turkey, to our citizens, we have no right to complain about dirty information. If you think it's appropriate, we can continue to pass on information on how this accident took place to Turkey tomorrow at 2:00 or earlier, with the opening of the Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0225par0070	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0226par0071	We don't recommend a group, sir, so if you don't...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0225par0072	If you'd like to hear from Mr. Elitaş, then...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0226par0073	I think we should make a compromise, Mr. Mustafa.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0225par0074	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0227par0075	Now, as part of today's meeting with the political parties, we've brought it to the Council of Counsellors. It's 15 o'clock today because the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a group meeting. We'll start at 00.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0225par0076	Would you take your seat, I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0227par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. We decided to set up a research commission today in the Turkish National Assembly today to investigate the events in Soma, as part of our phone call with political party groups yesterday, and then to avoid such disasters. All political parties have already agreed to the establishment of this commission. Our main goal is to ensure that the commission is immediately established, established without delay, and is to continue its activities immediately. Our conversations here won't produce results, the commission will. Just as your friends said you should have accepted it at 29. Today, if we were to set up this commission as soon as possible, even as Monday, the precious groups of the Turkish Grand National Assembly... we write to our dear friends today, after the commission is established, Thursday at 18 p.m. We want EC PARTY MPs to apply to the AK PARTY Group, which wants to be a member of the commission by 00. We want them evaluated after Thursday and announced to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on Tuesday and the commission to be established. In that sense, not our conversations here, but the commission's execution, it's very important that the commission act immediately. Look, it's seven o'clock, what did we talk about? We discussed the group proposal. By seven o'clock, the works of the Turkish Grand National Assembly were broadcast on television. But if we didn't bring the group proposal and we didn't talk about the group proposal -- something that wouldn't have happened at the Council, something that we've always objected to, we've always been rightfully underlined, in favour of the advisory board proposals, not to be spoken against -- we'd all have won an hour, and we'd have talked here. So right now, it's probably 2:00 tomorrow. It's being broadcast as far as I know, but let's finish what we started, and let's do it quickly, the commission-building phase. If our friends want us to set up fast, we've got 11 motions, so let's pull some of it out of our friends who have a motion, because our goal is to set up a commission, and it's not working for us to express our opinions here. The important thing is that our friends will be able to express their opinion on that commission, observe if there are flaws and report to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as soon as possible. Every passing day is a matter of delaying the report here. I propose, there are 11 motions, one member of the political party will speak his opinion, if the political party groups want to speak, and the Minister will answer there, in an hour, two hours, let's get this done, and we'll set up the commission as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0228par0085	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0229par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0228par0088	Wait, Mr. Vural's in the system.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0230par0090	Mr. President, first of all, the lawmakers' signatures and research motions have been submitted here, and I would take it as a national will and an insult to the representatives of the nation to consider the MPs' speech here as useless. There's no way that's acceptable. Even the speech of his own MPs is useless, what's the point? It's not acceptable to avoid his style.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0231par0091	He didn't say that. What makes you say that?
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0230par0092	Talking won't delay the commission. Sir, our commissioners are ready.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0232par0093	Mr. President, you can't be so twisted.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0233par0094	Mr. Elitaş, you will answer, one moment.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0230par0095	In this regard, if the Justice and Development Party is already gathering by Thursday, there is no delay in the commission. We'll give it to you as soon as the commission's in place. The commission can start on Monday. There is no sin in that. In this regard, he's already prepared these names, but the correct information is important. The government also has information to make. In this regard, the Justice and Development Party also has information; the Health Minister was there, probably in need of public information about them. As a result, we would be right to allow him to pass on his observations to lawmakers in exchange for our nation, which we represent, sir, and we think it's best that the public be informed in such a transparent way.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0234par0098	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0235par0101	Mr. President, I consider the speech of Mr. Elitaşs a disrespect to the General Assembly; we don't need to talk here, it's about setting up a commission, let's just dry it off... For one thing, it is the talks to be made here that will shed light on the commission, which is the basis and reason for the commission's establishment. Each motion has its own reasons. Let's just dry up the commission and run a report for three months and see him in Parliament on the basis of the general meeting. The conclusion of the logic is 301 lives today. Here, Mr. Elitaş, here's the report from 2010. This is the report of a similar commission, and what a sad report, which was published in May 2010, and 30 people died in Zonguldak, May 17, 2010. So it's not a matter for a research commission to present a report to the House. Mr. President, I agree with my friends that no one has a greater power than this. It is unacceptable for both the TRT (TRT) and the Speaker to take down the Fifth Amendment, despite the three political parties here. I strongly condemn this, strongly protest. Furthermore, these issues here, each one of their friends who submitted the motion, each one of them, and your friends, your first signee friends, and their friends' reasons must be followed by both the General Assembly here and our beloved nation. If our ruling party sees fit, it's tomorrow at 14. Starting at 00, without a group proposal, we will see each other very quickly at the broadcast time, and Mr. Speaker should also offer TRT to be published in the event of an extension in the morning. That's the biggest debt the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey owes to our 301 fellow saints who died in Soma. I don't think he'll spare it. I demand that you contact him again as the main opposition party.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0236par0107	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0237par0110	Mr. President, our motion has been submitted as a three-party group, and we've also submitted a motion for the General Assembly vote. Mr. President, we're not playing the national will game here now. I'm sorry. TRT is a general manager at the head of the government, at the command of the administration. The government can't stand above the people's will, above the legislature, above the decisions of the General Assembly. I can do what I want. It's a terrible thing to put these screens on the public after all these sacrifices, after all these lives with Soma. There are different, virtuous attitudes in civilized countries; there is no ban, no pressure, no attack with TOMA, no gas, no blame. It's time for this country to change its picture. Well, if you're saying bureaucratic or whatever, Mr. Flower will be meeting with the General Manager, please come tomorrow at 14 o'clock. Let's leave it at 100. Tomorrow it's 14. Let the public watch it live at 00. The ministers have gone to the area, so let them speak. Let's come to a common agreement. No, if we have to keep it a secret from the public, we'll have to do it in public, if you don't want anyone to see these arguments, we'll find a lot of ways tomorrow. Believe me, we use this Civil Charter much better than you do, and by seven o'clock every day, as three opposition parties, we'll set the live broadcast time, lock it up ourselves, we'll do it again, we'll do it again, we'll talk again. Please, let's agree on this. We're agreeing on a motion to investigate on the advisory board, and you turn off the TV, and you turn it off against the faces of painful people. What could be more disrespectful than that? It's not the right approach for us to value our talks here and address the people's will from your party, and the MPs from your party, as well -- to consider it that way. In this regard, for one thing, apologize to the Regents. I think that in the most responsible position, we should apologize to our people in Soma. I also think the Prime Minister should do it, and I think the Prime Minister should do it. Turkey needs this. Turkey needs transparency. Turkey needs to talk.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0238par0113	Yes, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0237par0114	Turkey needs to discuss problems, resolve them.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0238par0115	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0237par0116	Mr. President, we have an agreement on this, we're in agreement. If you say no, run the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0238par0117	You will do the Covenant with groups, not with me, not with the presidency, Mr. Kaplan, and I will explain.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0237par0118	Mr. President, don't you have a facilitator role? The Presidential Court, of course, has a facilitator role, so...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0238par0119	Sir, it's not the General Assembly's job. I'll explain, Mr. Kaplan. Thank you. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0239par0123	Mr. President, thank you. In Soma, 301 lives went into the ground, and our hearts burned, and 77 million hearts were wounded. One of the most important reasons why this 77 million is hurt from the heart is that this is the first business accident in our history. With regard to this business accident, if there is anything missing, if there is a lack of legal regulation, we have proposed the Council of Counsellors today, along with political party groups, in order to address these shortcomings. Today at 1900 p.m., the Turkish National Assembly was known by political party groups, where the broadcasts would be cut by TRT. Nevertheless, it is not fair to come today and accuse us of such things, let us speak them, and tell them, and let our people hear them, and hide them.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0240par0125	What are you afraid of? Just be clear!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0239par0126	If there is such a thing, it's 15 o'clock. When the General Assembly opened at 00, in non-responsibility conversations, as my friend had just suggested...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0240par0127	Be clear, be transparent!
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0239par0128	... we'd apply for the Deputy Speaker of Parliament. Off-the-book talks were already about Soma. Our friends who spoke out of the agenda expressed important issues, the Minister gave them the necessary answers, made the necessary statements. Today, the Council of Ministers cancelled the meeting of the Council of Ministers for today's significance. We, as the AK PARTI government, consider this to be such a big deal, that the proposal for the research commission on Soma (the Turkish National Assembly) will be discussed and accepted, but unfortunately, what I'm saying here is an insult to the valued members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it's unfair. I'm sorry to say that there is a twist in it. When I feel in my heart all the pain of the 301 martyrs who lost their lives in Soma, when I feel the pain of the families there, I try not to hurt anyone, not to stick a needle in wounded hearts, and I try to choose my words and use them here, you shut us down to cover some facts. It is clearly unfair to accuse us of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0241par0131	There's no such thing. Please...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0239par0132	That's what Mr. Kaplan says.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0242par0133	That's exactly what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0243par0134	Dear Elitaş, thank you. Point taken, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0242par0135	Mr. Elitaş, this is to turn off the TV, to turn off the public, to hide it. I'm being honest.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0244par0136	If we have a responsibility, we're willing to pay it to the fullest, if the responsible are already doing their duty. What we're going to do next...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0243par0137	These will be discussed, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0244par0138	... not to interfere with the judiciary, but from now on, the legal regulations are to set up a research commission to find out what's missing. Dear President, in that sense, we wish to continue our decision until the end. Thank you. Mr. Günay, you have a voice request. What do you want to say? First tell me what you want it for, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0245par0143	I want your word on your attitude. This motion is the will of the House...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0246par0145	The 60th article is very short, please, Mr. Günay. I'll turn on your mic. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0245par0148	Mr. President, my dear friends, perhaps one of the fundamental elements of a nation is empathy. Together, we are suffering from a great disaster, and today the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is having a historic session. It's very useful for the nation to listen to us, the power, the opposition, that party, that we share common feelings without this party, and that we all walk on a common pain together, to improve the fate of the nation. So, please, make this motion the will of the House, put it in a vote. If the TRT doesn't implement it, it's no longer the Parliament's responsibility. But it is in the best interest of both the House and the nation to be known that the House wants our nation to know about these talks and that our Parliament has taken a common stand in the face of this suffering. If it looks as if one side doesn't want it, one of the parties may be unfairly, unfairly hurt. That's why we wish this motion to become a will of the House.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0247par0151	Thank you, Mr. Günay. Members of parliament, first of all, it has been decided today to read the motions for the MEClis investigation in the 20/5/2014 jointly on Tuesday (today) and to combine the proposals with today's unification and to continue working until the meeting is completed in this merger, as you all know, this is one. Second: The Grand National Assembly of Turkey works on the agenda, it is not possible to vote or submit a motion outside the agenda. The live feed is not an element of the issue on the agenda. Third: The issue of the motion is the subject of administrative processing and executive authority. It's a matter of running it, the General Assembly, the legislature...
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0248par0155	The death of 301 people is the subject of life. It cannot be judged, Mr. President, it cannot be judged, it is wrong.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit03spe0247par0156	Please... On the other hand, the transactions of the TRT will be subject to the control authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as well as the control procedures specified in the Interior Charter. Now, if four groups are agreed here, as you just stated, there's no objection to that, but there's no way for me to vote on an administrative procedure here at the General Assembly. That's what I'm talking about. It's a matter of groups. If you'd like to take a ten-minute break, Mr. Group Vice President, let's meet inside. [[From CHP, MPP and HDP rows, let's give them the voices.]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-05-20sit04spe0247par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at a meeting of the Council of Advice 20/5/2014 on Tuesday. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party The group is acting president of the Vice President Group A. No other work has been discussed in today's merger of the General Assembly, dated 20/5/2014, The recommendation of the Council of Counsellor and the General Assembly have agreed to meet with the decision of the General Assembly on Wednesday (January 21/5/2014) to be held after the Court's membership election, and to continue the work of the General Assembly until the completion of these tasks, It's recommended. There's no demand for word on the proposal. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (May 21st) that we hold a preliminary discussion of the selection of empty memberships in the Court and 11 parliamentary inquiry motions for the mine accident in Soma. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
