tbmm-2014-02-26sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The electronic device will do a roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, before starting the talks, we must take a closed session to be read according to the 71st Article of the Interior Charter, which was held in the 61st and 62nd session of February 14, 2014. Therefore, I'd like to ask the lawmakers and those who may be present at the General Assembly Hall to clear the hall except for sworn stenographers and sworn officers. After the transcripts have been read, open session will be held and talks will continue. I'd like to ask your supervisors to assist in this matter and inform the presidency after the hall is cleared.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- after the closed session. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Adana MP Necdet Ünüvar, who asked for a comment on the anniversary of the Hodjalı massacre. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0002par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Turkey and the Geography of Azerbaijan are a geography of suffering. There have been many sufferings in this geography, perhaps the worst of these sufferings is the Hodja massacre. Today is February 26th, the anniversary of the Hodja massacre. Twenty-two years ago today, a city was wiped out from the face of the earth, a living woman, a child, a young, old man, a total assault, and the ones who escaped from the cold and snowy mountains either froze to death or were crippled, the ones who couldn't escape were scanned with heavy weapons, the killing of knives and daggers -- and it was an extremely difficult violence to describe and understand. If there is a place where the word ends, perhaps it is the Hodja. The total 613 Azerbaijan citizens lost their lives, 487 were disabled, 1,275 were captured, and 150 were not known. According to the account that only 3,000 Turks of Azerbaijan lived in Hoxhalı at the time, almost all of them lost their lives or were crippled or disappeared for some unknown reason. I cherish our brothers and sisters who lost their lives in Hodja. The dates of the massacres in our geography in the 90s were particularly interesting, January, February, March. Baku massacre on January 20th, Hodja on February 26th. These atrocities took place during the night, when truly cold and snowy weather was chosen, when people were most desperate. Interesting, everything that's done is recorded in videos or confessions from confessions. Those who pursue events that didn't happen a hundred years ago, unfortunately, prefer not to see or hear these events, and they still play the same role. Dear MPs, we all know that Turkey and Azerbaijan are friends and brothers. We also know that one problem with Turkey and Azerbaijan is another problem. But the Hodja incident isn't just the problem of the Turkish world, Turkey and Azerbaijan, it's not just the problem of the Islamic world, it's certainly the Muslims who lost their lives there, but it's not just the problem of the Islamic world. Those who lost their lives in the teacher's office are the problems of mankind because those who lost their lives there were human beings above all else. Thus, if mankind does not want to see the new Hodja massacres, it must find and punish the perpetrators of this brutal inhuman massacre with their confessions, confessions, and evidence. Otherwise, Hoxhalı will not only remain the bloodiest massacre of the 20th century, but will remain the most embarrassing event of mankind. I cherish our brothers and sisters who lost their lives in Hodja. I wish both patience for the living and those who long for years to come, that I could die there, that I could be buried in my own homeland, in my own homeland. I wish those who long to return to their own homes and their own homes would soon return to them. You know, Hodja, it's a very strategic area inside the Mountain Karabakh. The Mountain Karabakh has been in captivity for 20 years. Hopefully, Mount Karabakh will be released from his captivity, and my Azerbaijan brothers, who desire to live in the area, especially the Hodja, say that they will have this hope, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0003par0016	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu, who asked for the same talk again. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0004par0021	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Hodja massacre, which we should consider a national issue. First of all, 613 women, children, and old civilians who were brutally murdered, and others who were killed in Hoxhalı, I ask God's mercy. Dear lawmakers, I don't really want to tell you how the Hodja took place, but I would like to share with you here a few insights about Hodja. In his book "Karabab, Armenia and Azerbaijan" written by an English researcher Thomas De Waal. After his teaching, Sarkisyan said: "Before Hocal, the Azerbaijans thought that we were joking, the Armenians would not raise their hands against the civil society. We've managed to break it. It's expressed in the form of. So they're talking about a massacre they did on purpose. Again, there is another expression: a man named Zori Balan, who was involved in this war and was in the massacre, says in his own book "Resuscitation of our Spirit" in his own book: "Our soldiers nailed a 13-year-old Turkish child to the window, so that the shouting of the Turkish child would not be heard too much, put the boy's breast in the mouth of the boy's cut off. Later, I did to this 13-year-old Turk what their ancestors did to our children. I peeled his skin from his head, his chest, his stomach, and his belly. I looked at the watch, and the Turkish boy bled to death seven minutes later. My profession was medicine and, of course, I was a humanist. However, I did not feel uncomfortable with the torture I was inflicting on the Turkish boy. But my spirit was proud to avenge even one percent of my people. He later chopped up the body of his dead Turkish child piece by piece and dumped it on dogs with the same roots as Turk. We did the same thing to three other Turkish children last night. I did my duty as an Armenian patriot. The Crusader was also very sweaty, but I saw vengeance and the struggle of powerful humanism in his eyes and in the eyes of our other soldiers. The next day, we went to the church and prayed that our souls and those who died in 1915 would be cleansed. However, we were able to rid Hodja of the 30,000-strong scum that occupied a part of our homeland. Dear MPs, what was actually done in Hoxhalı, this is a much better explanation of its own narratives. In fact, we're all Armenians. Will they still say that after this information? But this is for sure: there are many other examples of this. I'd like to share another one of these with you. The Armenian journalist Daud Kheyrian, who experienced violence himself and then settled in Beirut, also says: I'm not... An Armenian group, called Gaflan, who was in charge of the cremation of the dead, brought 100 Azerbaijan dead on March 2nd to a place a mile west of Hodja. I saw a 10-year-old girl in the last truck. He had a head wound and a hand wound. He had a black face. Despite the cold, hunger, and wounds, he was still alive. He could barely breathe. His eyes were filled with fear of death. At that time, a soldier named Tigranyan held him and threw him on the other bodies. Then they burned all the bodies. It sounded to me like I heard a scream through the burning dead bodies. There was nothing I could do. I returned to Shusha, and they continued to fight for the sake of the cross. Yes, I don't see anyone who won't condemn it, who won't hate it in the name of humanity. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0005par0032	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0006par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yeah, it's the anniversary of the Hodja massacre. Twenty-two years ago today, Hoxhalı, a town of about 7,000 people in Mount Karabağ, became one of the greatest atrocities in history at the end of the 20th century. In fact, the incident at Hodja is a crime against humanity, which matches the description of genocide described by the United Nations Convention on Avoidance of Genocide. On that day, 613 civilians of Azerbaijan, women, children, without saying "old," were slaughtered. Not only was he murdered, his eyes were gouged out, his scalps were scalped, there was violence. This is actually a war crime, so we think that those responsible should be tried at the War Crimes Court in The Hague, such as the Serbian butcher. In this regard, the Republic of Turkey has important tasks for our state. Dear friends, today the land of Azerbaijan, Cana Azerbaijan, is occupied by about one fifth of the land. The land of Karabağ is occupied by Hodja, Shusha, Lacin, Kelbecer, Abdam, Fuzuli, Cebradü, Kubadite. It has been the land of Azerbaijan since the past, and today it is occupied by Armenia. This problem has been a peaceful, diplomatically unresolved problem for twenty-two years, and if the Westerners want to make time for this work, as the Honorable President of Azerbaijan said, as Hürmetli President Ilham Aliyev said, Azerbaijan is ready to take possession of the occupied land using legitimate international law. I'm sure that will be resolved as soon as possible, and if we don't, we will celebrate the freedom of Azerbaijan from the Teacher, but if not, then it is a legitimate right for Azerbaijan to support it, and I'm sure the Republic of Turkey will have to support it. The Turkish nation will be with Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) to save the occupied lands. Today, of course, that land is not easy, so thousands of martyrs can be sacrificed for that land, their martyrs are born with new mothers, but there's no way to give birth to the land. There are sadnesss that reflect the occupation of those lands. I'm going to read two paragraphs from a poem about this, and the poet says: When you were a prisoner, Gomişah was in distress, We're all in the spirit of the beggar, We didn't come to your goal this spring, Don't forgive us, Veten. "Burn your heart to the Gara, You're blind to tears, and you're blind to how many things you've found, From the barn wound of the gan Garabag, Don't forgive us, Veten. That's the way it is, Karabakh, occupied land. (CHP, AK PARTY and MHP rows) And the country says don't forgive us. The Azerbaijan people say. Indeed, he does not forgive, and he certainly does not forgive. I mean, it's not just Azerbaijan's land, see, as long as it's occupied, we're all under the heads of the entire Turkish world -- sir -- 250 million or 300 million or whatever we call it -- it's that obvious. That's what land is like, guys, that's what country is like. Azerbaijan will get it sooner or later, but we say, let the OSCE-Minsk Group resolve this peacefully, diplomatically, or it's legitimate because it's going to take its occupied land back, it's not a war. Sir, as Ataturk said, today is Azerbaijan's day of mourning, so their sadness is our grief. On this occasion, I offer my condolences to all Azerbaijan people, especially the President of Azerbaijan, the Honorable President Inspired Aliyev, and to all the people of Azerbaijan, to the Turkish nation, and to the martyrs, with all due respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Original. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. I'm going to prioritize the members of the group who hacked into the system. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the anniversary of the Hodja massacre. Twenty-two years ago, on February 26, 1992, in the village of Hoxhalı, occupied by Armenia of Azerbaijan, 613 of our descendants died in a vulnerable attack by Armenian armed forces. On this bitter anniversary, I condemn this event, which is a painful event in the history of mankind. I cherish our Azerbaijan family members who have lost their lives. I wish such an event would never happen again in Azerbaijan, nor in any geography of the earth, and I remind all mankind that a high hope, such as peace, is a goal to be achieved in front of mankind. Again, he condemns the massacre of Hodja, and I send greetings and love of the Republican People's Party to our Azerbaijan family.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0009par0062	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0010par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Peace and Democracy Party Group, we honor and cherish those who lost their lives in the Hodja massacre. The Hodja massacre has been one of the most extensive civilian massacres since the invasion of Mount Karabağ. According to the official statement of the Republic of Azerbaijan, a total of 613 Azerbaijan lives were lost in the attack, including 106. Once again, on the 22nd anniversary of the Hodja massacre, we condemn the massacre as the Party of Peace and Democracy, not just the Hodja massacres, but those who commit mass killings all over the world with violence and hatred. Once again, we honor and cherish those who have lost their lives in such massacres. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0011par0070	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0012par0073	Mr. President, our children are the same as Azerbaijan, who died in the massacre at Hodjalı. One of the black pages of human history, the Hodja massacre, the feeling of hatred and hatred, is a bad example of the painful consequences of an aggressive mentality, an ugly example. This mindset has led to nearly a million Azerbaijan brothers leaving their homes and living the life of the fugitive for over 20 years. The violence of Hodja is still unknown in the world today, and the efforts to distort history continue, unfortunately. In this framework, he continues to support Azerbaijan to keep the Turkish Hodja truth on the agenda of international public opinion, to ensure justice and the punishment that criminals deserve. Another concrete example of our country's interest in the Hodjalı massacre, which was unanimously adopted as a result of talks under the agenda under the title of the Grand National Assembly Foreign Commission on February 22, 2012. With such feelings and thoughts, we bow once again before the memory of our innocent Azerbaijan brothers who died in Hodja twenty-two years ago.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. A deliberate massacre against civilians, let alone human beings, who have committed a savage act that even animals would not do, has been unrequited, and those who have done so have been left unrequited. I wish they would be brought to the Supreme Court and brought to trial as soon as possible. I would also like to express in particular that such civil killings are unfortunately a disgrace to human history in the world. It is not only the children of Azerbaijan, but also our children, our people, who are martyred in the teacher's office. I wish them all God's mercy. We ask that the fugitives return to their homeland, and the occupied lands of Azerbaijan be returned to Azerbaijan immediately. We are always with Azerbaijan, always with them. Again, all those who lost their lives, all those who died before Hodja, and all those who died before Hodja, we ask for God's mercy.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0016par0088	Mr. President, I'd like to announce a scream from one of the largest hospitals in our country, Izmir Ataturk Education and Research Hospital at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and call on the Minister of Health immediately. There are major problems in both education services and health care following a joint medical protocol between İzmir Ataturk Hospital and Cletip Çelebi University Medical School. Ataturk Hospital is being ignored and no new assistant staff is being given. In September 2013 and April 2014, no assistant staff was given. Both his assistants and professors and patients have rebelled, and the doctors are rightly on strike. The service has come to a standstill. In assistant planning, the academics at Ataturk Hospital were ignored, and only the professors of the Clerk Çelebi University were considered, which violated the work peace. This situation is never acceptable. The Minister of Health must immediately assign additional staff. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0017par0091	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0018par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. In his entire past, the extraordinary union of Artvin, who did not know his interests, his bigotry, and his brother's quarrel, marked the development of Turkey on this modern Ataturkian road, celebrating another day of salvation with the spirit of the Ataturk Republic of Artvin. On March 7, 1921, Artvin survived the enemy invasion. I wanted to share these feelings because the House is on vacation next week. Therefore, March 7 is the name of the occupation, March 7 is the name of the republic, and March 7 is the name of Ataturk. March 7th is the name of the sun rising in this country, the sun rising in the northeast. Because when it comes to being from Artvin, the fierceness of the people is the silence of the plateaus; to be from the northeastern part of this country is to give birth to the sun; to be from Artvin is to always turn your face to enlightenment, to modernity; to be from Artvin is to climb from the lifeguard, sometimes to row on the rough wave of the Black Sea. He celebrates March 7th Independence Day with a sense of unity and unity, honor to work, honor to share, and honor to all the lovers of Artvin, who follow us on television, especially your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0019par0097	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0020par0100	Mr. President, thank you. Because of the good weather in Malatya, the apricot flowers began to bloom in some parts of Malatya. The early bloom of apricot flowers has been Malatya's fearful dream in recent years. Because of the frosting events that took place in February and March in recent years, apricot producers have lost a year's worth of goods, and their efforts have been wasted. And then, when the shooter was loaded, he ruined the apricot that was not affected by the frost. And the apricot manufacturers, who can't get rid of the frost and the hail, find the solution in applying to TARSEM, but the experts that TARSIM sent to assess the damage explain almost half the damage. Hence, the confidence of apricot producers in TARSIM (TARSIM) has been especially shaken. I'm calling the TARSIM authorities from here: don't victimize the already victimized manufacturers, and don't victimize them. Let the objective criteria determine, and the question marks on the manufacturers' heads end. Recently, Malatya has three enemies of the apricot. One, don; two, full; three, AKP. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0021par0103	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0022par0106	Mr. President, growing daily on our streams and streams, the HES projects are causing irreparable damage to natural life, destroying its natural life, its wealth, our country, and its region's fauna, and its flora, increasing the extent of the disaster. The struggle against HES construction, which began with the local people, which grew by protests by environmental and civil society organisations, and spread throughout the entire country, is resistance. Reactions and protests throughout the country are also carried out by legal struggles, but the courts can't even stop the execution and cancellations, the constructions, the projects; the mentality that ignores the democratic struggles of citizens ignores the judicial decisions. The same is happening in Karabulduk district of Keşap district of Giresun. I invite everyone to abide by the rules of the law, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0021par0108	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0023par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, according to official figures, in the village of Hoxhalı in Azerbaijan, it is 336 of the Russians. It is the 22nd anniversary of the Hodja genocide, where a total of 613 people were brutally murdered by Mechanized Regiments and Armenian gangs. As a result of the Armenian auction in Hodjalı district of Can Azerbaijan, I have blessed the martyrs of the Turkish Islamic world who walked to Hakk. May the Lord have mercy on these innocents and grant them a paradise. It's incumbent on the House to accept February 26th as a memorial day of the Hodja genocide. In this regard, our fellow lawmakers, Mr. Reshad Right and Sinan Oğan, have offers, waiting for the will of our Parliament to be granted. If you consider the decisions made in Africa, South America, in unrelated places and states, what do the children of the same nation expect to decide on the day of genocide? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0024par0116	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0025par0119	Mr. President, first of all, I condemn the teacher massacre. On the night of February 24th, the Prime Minister and his son, the good son Bilal, were not denied the request to reset the funds found in the house due to the 17th December operation, and he was obsessed with how the cryptophone was tapped. For this reason, five officers from TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) today have been relieved of their duties in the same way that police, judges, prosecutors were removed from office. Now I want to ask you, are those who did it guilty, or are those who caught them guilty? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0026par0123	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0027par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. The most obvious way today is to see how the associations and foundations close to the AKP have been neglected under the name "forgivable." In the last lecture room debates, we saw how money was raised in schools for a charity that signed statements supporting the government. All the public has seen how state lands were assigned to the TÜRGEV, where the Prime Minister's family is in close relations. At the same time, the Unsubstantiated Foundations and Foundations are getting rich, while the Government is dealing with the Society for the Support of Modern Life, which grants scholarships to thousands of students, builds dozens of dorms and education units, allowing 62,000 girls to study. A large amount of taxes have been paid for the funds he has recently collected through donations to the association. This is the result of hatred and anger toward the Society for Support of Modern Life. These endeavors are in vain because it once again states that they will not be able to finish the association celebrating the 25th anniversary and signing numerous services, which I respectfully remember Professor Turkan Saylan, and wish his directors success. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0028par0129	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0029par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. It's more of a teaching political issue. I want to thank you, as a member of the Turkish nation, as a member of parliament today, as a member of parliament, as a member of parliament, and as a member of parliament, for the sentiment that the members of the parliament have shown about Hoxhalı. But I also doubt that what was done was enough. If we can live with the genocide of Hoxhalı in this Parliament, the suffering of Hoxhalı, not only with speech, but with action, then we will be able to overcome the possible sufferings. I also remember hundreds of Azerbaijan Turkish citizens who were murdered in Hodjalı, and our Kurdish citizens who were slaughtered without looking at their ethnic origins. My respects.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0030par0135	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0031par0138	Thank you. Sir, unfortunately, the government does not give the rights to these workers, even though it is clear they are not subcontractors, they are not subcontractors. They held a large meeting in Ankara, and only the press didn't give it to them. Now, Bakili Yıldırım, instead of collecting $630 million from contractors he has tendered with honey and giving it to Erdogan, let these workers give it to him over his own real values, and let these workers in the state give the right to our brothers who are sentenced to the minimum wage of death today. So if there's no law in a country, there's no court of law, there's no democracy in a country like this. There's no democracy, there's a dictatorship. Anyway, right now, the government is empty to me, the Prime Minister's office is free, so the Grand National Assembly of Turkey shouldn't work either. Me, too, and...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0032par0142	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0033par0145	Mr. President, many people in Turkey are looking for a solution to their problems. Unregistered teachers, pensioners, shopkeepers, farmers expect serious demands from this Parliament. One of them is retired petty officers. With 42,000 members, TEMAD launched a death fast to address problems in Istanbul. Parts with serious problems can do actions that may have reached the point of thinking about the fast of death in order for their problems to produce sound in Parliament. In this sense today, even though there are no ministers to address the problems of society in this short period of time, it is once again necessary for Parliament and the government to act on the solution of the problems of retired petty officers, to address the problems of these people who are fasting to death...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0032par0147	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0034par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. The value of our citizens' residences in Umraniye, Beykoz, Chile, Sultanbeyli, Üsküdar. Our citizens, who are victims of this 2/B, are victims of high housing values. Does the government have a low price to pay for the removal of this victim? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0035par0153	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0036par0156	Mr. President, today is the day of the reigning Armenian mobs to remember 613 brothers who were martyred at Hodjalı, and the day of the wire of Armenia, who committed this inhuman genocide. He remembers our martyrs once again with mercy, and I await justice, as do all for his murderers. Twenty-two years since the teacher massacre. The civilized world is silent, their rights are blind and deaf. The most painful thing is that the Turkish world and the AKP government, who turned its back on Hoxhalı, seek out protocols, deals with Armenia just because Western forces wanted them.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0037par0159	At least let Nevzad Bey finish his speech, and have respect for him, and have respect for him.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0036par0160	Not only in Hoxhalı, but all over the world, Turks are in trouble, Iraq, East Turkistan, Syria. I call on the AKP government to be sensitive to Turks and the Turkish world, who are trying to survive with their religion, national identities in many of the world's geography. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0038par0162	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0039par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan was made a freak for Karacaahmet Sultan Cemevi on 6 August 2012. Speaking at an event in Burhaniye, following this hate speech, Pir Sultan Abdal, former head of the Culture and Education Foundation on July 2nd, Emel Sungur, who called the house a freak himself, reacted as a freak. Emel Sungur was convicted in 2013 for insulting the Prime Minister. But the pressure on Sungur didn't end with this case. Sungur, who has been taken into custody twice in the past two months for no reason by the police, was later released from prison. I call upon the police to put an end to the policies of abuse, mobbing, and printing against Emel Sungur. The will of citizens of the Republic of Turkey to live together will not allow you to enter into your policies of discrimination and discrimination. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0040par0168	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0041par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, especially lawmakers, is here to address the burning problems of the people and to make legal arrangements for social problems related to them. Mr. President, on February 25, 2011, a pardon was granted to college students by the bag of laws. However, after that, about 200,000 of our students again left the university for different reasons, and for reasons such as health, absence, family problems, our students were deprived of education and teaching rights. At this intense demand, I proposed a law on 25 October 2013, at the request of our college teenagers, and our college students, who were victimised by these reasons, are looking at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. They are seeking a solution from the Turkish Grand National Assembly on the organisation of education and teaching rights, and they are asking that the constitutional education and teaching rights of the Constitution, which are recognised to them in Article 42 of the Constitution, be recognised to them again by a legal arrangement. I'm calling from here to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to arrange this legal arrangement immediately. Let's not darken the future of our college students, our young people.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0042par0175	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0043par0178	Mr. President, thank you. I also condemn the massacre of Hodja. I condemn not only the Hodja massacre, but all the massacres, regardless of his identity, geography, wherever crimes are committed against humanity in the world. Mr. President, we've been moving problems with prisons to Parliament for a very long time, but the problems haven't been resolved. Now there are hunger strikes in Edirne. Although we have voiced dozens of times in Edirne, Tekirdağ, in many prisons there was a hunger strike and torture of prisoners, there has still been no investigation by the authorities. There are sick prisoners and prisoners in prison, and they need to be liberated quickly, because many patients can't even provide for themselves, survive with the support of their friends, crime against humanity, and that's part of the massacre. I invite everyone to be sensitive and responsible for this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0044par0182	Thank you, Mr. Sakek... Mr. Albany...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0045par0185	Mr. President, I hate to inform you of the vile and treacherous massacre of Hodjas. For those who lost their lives in the massacre of the teacher, and for those who died, I pray for mercy from my Lord. For Hodja, the poet says that it is a city of angels, because innocent babies who did not have time to grow up there were brutally slaughtered. For him, we accept this pain as the common pain of Turkey and Azerbaijan, and I think we should keep it alive, not to hold grudges, but to keep the pain from happening again. There's an invasion in the mountain negro region, there's a lack of law. I pray that the invasion of Mount Karabağ will end quickly and that it will be free again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0046par0189	Thank you, Mr. Albany. And finally, Mr. Tamer...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0047par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray God to our Azerbaijan brothers, who were slain by the Armenians twenty-two years ago. I share the pain of our Azerbaijan brothers. As soon as possible, I wish that these brothers and sisters who were martyrs in this massacre would end their captivity and pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0048par0195	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In technical and critical tasks, which offer continuity in the Turkish Armed Forces' private staff, the specialisation system with Law 3296 was neglected to meet the need for trained personnel. Over the years, the number of specialists has increased as part of the expert service system, which has been implemented since 1986, and our experts have given our country many important services. However, over the past period, the problems with the expert employment system have been unresolved and the number of recruits has increased. Due to the lack of adequate arrangement for adversity during this period, problems within the expert assembly system have become gangrene, and the victims have become permanent. In particular, our citizens, who have served the Turkish Armed Forces for a period of time under Specialist Private Law 3269, but who have been forced to leave their post for various reasons, including age and health issues, are not employed in any way in the public, unfortunately, our state, so to speak, turns its back on the workers. The national Defence Ministry of Turkey's Armed Forces, which was forced to leave due to age 45 due to a legal arrangement in 2010, was provided to employ them as state officials until the time when they earned a pension in the Turkish Armed Forces staff, while the victims of our citizens who had to resign as experts themselves were not recovered. However, those who have reached the end of their term of duty and who have voluntarily revoked their contracts, who wish to be employed as public officials in public institutions and institutions, have to apply to public institutions and organizations, provided they have worked under Specialist Private Code 3269 for at least two years. Even though they have been appointed, public institutions have no obligation to accept these applications because they have reached the age of 45, or because they have reached the age of 45, they have been forced to respond to the decision of experts or to respond to the public institutions when they have reached a decision. In this framework, we offer and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Council of Turkey, to contribute to the detection of problems and victims in the expert assembly system, especially our citizens who serve the Turkish Armed Forces for a certain period of time, but who have been forced to abandon their position for various reasons such as age and health problems. 16/05/2012 1) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 8) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 9) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 10. Tanju Özcan [[Bolu]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] 14) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Sakarya]] [[Scholarship]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Turkish Armed Forces is a unit of the Army General Command and the Coast Guard Command, which served under the Constitution and laws of the Army, the Naval Command and the Air Force Command, which served under the Ministry of Interior during the peace period and was part of the Army and Naval Command. Today in the Turkish Armed Forces, 94. 564 petty officers, 24,277 veterans, 43,244 specialists, and 533 contractors/indentured men/instructions. 162,618 members of the staff, our citizens are an important part of our army. The Turkish Armed Forces have many problems today called "belt bones." For example, on April 9, 2012, B. 02. 0. K. K. Under the decision of the Council of Ministers of G/135-15/1662, the Joint Chiefs of Staff serving under the Turkish Armed Forces have been fiscally improved in the rights of officers and combating class officers, and the petty officers have been excluded from the scope of all these improvements. In the last 20 years, non-altering petty officers have become convinced that they have been excluded from an important institution, TSK. Petty officers are demanding regulations that show justice, equality and respect for human dignity, even though they respect the order of the army's hierarchy. On the other hand, the expert police personnel face similar problems. Since 1930, expert gendarmes who have tried to serve under all difficult conditions and despite all injustices have also demanded regulations for their rights. When we look carefully at their problems, for example, even though they have been accepted under the condition of a high school graduate, they have now been retired as elementary school graduates, even though about 25,000 veterans of the gendarmes have now graduated from the university. As an integral part of the Turkish Armed Forces, it is imperative that the staff act on the rights, educational rights, social rights and powers of our expert gendarmes, private contractors, and contractors, act immediately before they discriminate over the morale and motivation of the staff. In light of the problems and victims of 162,618 personnel and their families who serve the Turkish Armed Forces, we demand that the constitution be investigated to determine policies to resolve these problems, and we demand that Parliament be investigated according to Articles 98, 104 and 105. [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 5) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 20) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, disabled citizens face problems in many areas, from education to health, from transportation to employment. Moreover, the lack of clear work on the solution to these problems leads to new problems. However, making arrangements for disabled persons in order to maintain their human life is a requirement of the social state. None of us should forget that everyone is potentially disabled. At the beginning of the most important problems facing our disabled citizens, we share in business. In business, our disabled citizens, who are unable to take part in the extent they deserve despite the existence of laws and other regulations, feel that the principle of the social state is not applied against them. In this regard, it is interpreted as the government's view of disabled persons who are not employed in public institutions and institutions, which need to be a guide and an example. There are still unresolved issues in the phases in which our disabled citizens will be able to put to work, put to work, and work comfortably in public institutions and institutions. Legal loopholes must be filled in on this matter. In terms of employment, various incentives should be used at a higher rate in order for the private sector to do its part. While vocational rehabilitation and employment as a result are one of the provisions that the disabled have high hopes for, there is clearly not enough improvement. The ministries on this subject need to do a joint study and find a way to resolve it with a detailed plan. Our disabled citizens in Turkey also face major problems in everyday life, outside of employment. Intra-city transportation is one of the biggest problems of the disabled. Outside of high sidewalks, radio-free traffic lights, the use of buses, vans, subways and other rail cars is not thought of by disabled persons, which has caused our citizens to rebel. Local governments need to be more careful about this and work on their ability to maintain a more comfortable daily routine, considering the disabled. The Constitution has established positive discrimination regulations regarding the disabled and has stated that these regulations will not violate the principle of equality. However, these provisions cannot be carried out. As part of the social government principle, our country does not have a good report card on the support of the disabled. There is a need for a new arrangement, especially in the case of the disabled monthly, which is one of the requirements of the social state. In this regard, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the problems of our disabled citizens from education to health, transport to employment and proposals for solutions. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Eskişehir]] 15) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 19) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 20) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 26/2/2014 meeting on Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 10 May 2013, Bingol MP was awarded 3327 rows by Group Deputy Chair İdris Baluken. The Parliamentary Research Proclamation, which was given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate the problems of lu subcontractors, was suggested to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and read in presentations Wednesday (26/2/2014/2014), and to be held in the same historic combination of talks. In favor of the proposal, Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0049par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the group proposal we've made. I salute you all. Let me tell you at the very end what needs to be said: the motion that we've made involves addressing the socioeconomic problems and the problems of legislation that these subcontractorial practices have caused by the Parliament, establishing a commission to identify these problems, and presenting a report with the General Assembly's proposals for solutions. None of the MPs in this House may have said they disagreed with the group proposal for such a purpose, but unfortunately, even though you couldn't express it personally, when you act as a group, you're usually going to do it the way you do it, the way you always do it, the way you put your finger down and the way you lift your finger, you're going to reject this group proposal. This is about the heavy problems of subcontractors, so for the first time, we want you to surprise us with your choice to vote in accordance with a proposal from the opposition. Subcontractors have mountain problems. There are no non-responsive deputies in this House that don't face the problems of those workers almost every day. So, we think it's the most important agenda, the most important task, that the House is looking for an urgent solution to these problems. In particular, in working life, after 80 coups, the most powerful practices of neoliberal policies implemented after the coup of September 12th were implemented during the AKP period. We've always expressed that the basis of these neoliberal policies is that there are practices that favor capital, make laws in favor of capital, take on labor, exploit the laborer, and we're saying the same thing today. In particular, in the last 12 years of AKP power, one of the most important tools of labour exploitation in this work is legal regulations that pave the way for subcontractorisation and subcontractorization. See, in 2002, the number of subcontractors with 387 thousand came to a number of more than 2 million during your 12-year rule during the AKP period, reaching a number. You have today, unfortunately, brought up such a huge problem, including the Department of Labor, which is responsible for solving the problems of subcontractors that we work in today's Parliament, with cheap labour exploitation, cheap labor policies, including the method of receiving services in all public institutions and municipalities. Already in health, as part of the transformation project in health, your practices, which leave health entirely to capital monopolys, exploit labor and laborers, victimize the sick and sick relatives, have now become a very serious source of discomfort in society. In the field of health alone, when you came to power, when there were 11,000 subcontractors working there, today we're talking more than 160,000, so we're talking about an increase of almost 15 floors. The appeal of this subcontractor is that you open the way for these applications because you usually do the work of 10 workers through six workers when you're served as subcontractors or when you're employed. They have no social rights, no social security, no job security, and you look at them as cheap labor. So these workers, they often work on eight hours, they don't usually have weekly vacations, they don't get paid regularly. Companies who receive from the government most of the time immediately give these workers their wages by extending them three months, four months, and delaying them, and are usually given a year-long contract with these workers. After 11 months of work, they are laid off at the end of 11 months so they don't qualify for severance pay, and then two days later, the same workers are hired again, and that's how they're served, but they bring in a huge amount of labor exploitation. Frankly, it's a truly modern system of slavery, we say that all the time. Again today, let's put it this way: in order to remove this modern system of slavery, we believe that such an application is necessary to defend capital, sweat, and labor. You've already created such freaky practices in working life that many workers, laborers in different positions, workers in the same status, laborers in different rates and different social rights, in public. We're dealing with applications that do the same thing in groups you classed as 4/A, 4/B, 4/C, but have different social rights and different fees, and almost all of these classes are victims of these practices. From the beginning, we argue that the right to strike should be granted to the 4/A people. We say that 4/B, 4/C and subcontractors must be given the same rights as workers and workers as 4/A. They must be put on staff by the principle of being a social state, but this problem that concerns more than 2.5 or 3 million people, so far, unfortunately, your insensitive approach continues in the same way. Now, there's one thing that's unique, and a congressman just said when he was asking questions. Among these subcontractors there are about 10,000 workers working at the General Directorate of the Highways -- 8,760 -- there is a judicial decision on them, and in December 2011, the high judiciary said: "These workers are workers working on the Highways." Hence, social rights, rights to equity and staff allocations must be fulfilled immediately. Twenty-eight months have passed, and this government is still failing to pass judgment. All these workers want is that if Turkey is a state of law, if the government is not a country ruled by the whims of the authorities, then this judgment is being carried out. In my district, in Bingol, in Batman, in Şırnak, in Hakkari, in Kopeeli, in Istanbul, in Istanbul, every day, these highway workers call us and say their sacrifices. All the government and the Ministry of Labor said about it -- and we've had several one-on-one meetings with Mr. Labour Minister -- is that we've been working on it constantly and constantly. The only thing the workers want is to give up this policy that's stalling and give up their staff rights as soon as possible. If a ministry does not meet its verdict every 28 months, it must resign immediately, leaving aside the ministry's claim to do so. If he's trying to do it, and he can't, he's got to do it. If not, despite the legal decision, despite the verdict, I am not fulfilling it. If so, then prosecutors in this country must immediately begin a legal process, a legal process. If Turkey is a state of law, we rephrase that the problem of this nearly 10,000 highway workers must be resolved immediately. In particular, we ask that a friend who will speak for the AKP Group come here to answer our question. What the ministry has done, what level of work is this, do you know or don't you or don't you know, will you or won't you give a staff to the road workers? The question we're asking is very simple. Again, railway workers, especially with the Ministry of Transport, are victims of this issue. They're seasonal. Their contract is signed for less than thirty days, no more than a hundred and seventy-five days. Most of these workers spend more than nine months without work, and most of them are victims. Again, in my constituency, there were nearly 300 thousand railroad workers. They came to the Clave the other day. There are around 2,000 railroad workers all over Turkey, and they have demands for immediate relief of the difficulties with these seasonal workers. There are problems in health, in all areas, like the mountain that is looking for solutions to these subcontractors. So let's not ask our friend to speak for the AKP specifically to come here and try to trick us and our people with some of these formulas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let him explain why they don't support this motion, and even if they do, let's all form a commission with other political parties to solve the problems of these subcontractors and start our work. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0050par0383	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against him, Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0051par0387	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the Parliament's research motion to investigate the problems of subcontractors and develop appropriate solutions, but I will speak in favor of it, and I am forced to take it against it. By discussing this issue, I will share with you on behalf of subcontractors and other public workers the request for the immediate fulfillment of this problem by the High Assembly. Dear lawmakers, especially since the Justice and Development Party came to power alone, especially in recent years, it's a process that has become increasingly common and thus transforms public labor into a sentence between two lips. Although the number of people today is more than 1 million, despite judicial decisions, and has been determined by the judiciary that other public workers are doing the same thing, it is also clear that social and autonomy rights should be regulated in the same way as those of staffed workers in public -- Mr. Baluken has just expressed -- that it is very interesting, and, unfortunately, that it is not necessary by the government, despite the passing of time, that it has not been done by the judicial authorities. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know very well what's wrong with these workers. In any province, the first place a worker can apply for a job by means of a sub-employee or public institution is the institutions of the ruling party in that province. Any firm that's going to take the tender, once they go there and make preliminary agreements on the job, certainly after the ruling party guarantees me not to hire anyone outside the list of county and county agencies, maybe they do, and unfortunately, once they do, they have to victimize these workers to make good on their promise. Now, one of the most important problems about these things is the issue of severance pay. As to the resolution of this issue, our motions to the relevant ministry are, unfortunately, late to be answered. In response to one question during budget talks, I share with you the last of the Minister's answers during talks on the 2014 budget, in response to Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Because two or three years ago he gave the same answers: studies on sub-employment continue with negotiations with social parties. The aim of these studies is to address the increasingly widespread definition and uncertainty of sub-compulsionism in the public and private sector, to pay the lower employer a similar fee in violation of the law, to pay the wages in full and on time, to organise a salary scale in the public, to be granted annual vacation, union organisation and collective employment agreements, job health and security monitoring and supervision, to resolve problems, to be granted severance. Well, good, what about purpose, who's going to solve this problem? It's really worrying, it's sad, it's not a very pleasant development for Turkey, that the understanding that has made this problem a gangrene for years still aims to do so. This problem, rather than purpose, has become a problem that is now a solution, because the solution is obvious: there must be a legal arrangement about it, and it must be tied to a standard with secondary legislation that will ensure that injustice is dealt with in practice. Again, to this end, we believe that the proposal of the law offered by Mr. Kalaycı (a member of our group) should be taken out of this great parliament as soon as possible, and that all proposals given in a similar manner by other groups should be put together, and that the government should take and resolve this matter quickly, if it is serious, by combining the proposals made by our other friends, or by putting it on its own agenda. Dear lawmakers, again, the work you've done to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in order to resolve the situation of road workers is in what state? I share with you the response he made to the motion a year ago: ▪ In this respect, the Parliament has failed to execute the decisions in order to implement these court decisions within the framework of the legislation and to continue its rights with the Ministry of Maritime and Communications and the Ministry of State Staff and Finance. Dear lawmakers, really, when we consider that this problem has become gangrene in Turkey, that many of our employees have been victims, and that there is no way to pay the severance pay of those workers, especially among the 3 per cent of the last companies, including severance pay, and the tenders that provide these terms, there is no way to pay the severance benefits of those workers. This matter has been moved from my side to the concerned ministers and Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Security, which we see as a witness that the work of this matter is ongoing, but the ongoing work of this matter has not been completed. As part of the sub-employee implementation, there are calculations on the official module on the public tender page of the tenders that will work as subsidiary workers in the tenders with public institutions and enterprises, and on these calculations, there are 3% of the severance, unfortunately, every year the subcontracted subcontract workers are faced with the application of input-exploration, even on paper, because they have not actually reached 8.33 per cent. In the event of taking over a new job, the ex-employee is always made to sign a bond in exchange for a year's severance pay, so that it can be employed there by the new or old firm. Therefore, if the worker pays the severance on his behalf, he has the right to continue his work, and if he does not, unfortunately, the slaughter continues again. As for the solution to this problem, unfortunately, the motion that we gave is still unresponsive, but apparently, no matter what we say, it seems that this Parliament will not be able to come up with a solution to the problems of subcontractors, the seasonal workers, some of the workers employed in other institutions. A Justice and Development Party's government, which is willing to take over thousands -- 100,000 in national education overnight -- continues to be insensitive to solving the problems of these workers. As much as I speak against the motion, I say we agree with the content of the motion, we vote in favor of it, and I give it again.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0052par0398	Thank you, Mr. Light. In favour of the proposal, İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0053par0402	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all with love. I have made a pledge in favour of the Peace and Democracy Party's motion on subcontractors. Indeed, we are discussing a very important issue of Turkey's agenda while we should be talking about other things here. Today, students of education, there are thieves in this country, there is a strike in this workplace! (with the slogan of the new national education bill passed by the Commission; I salute the workers' strike from here.) I also send greetings to students who resist to claim their future in ODTU. Dear friends, we've brought the problem of subcontractors on the agenda over and over again, but we're doing it again from here, we're doing it again, we're doing it again, and friends here have just expressed that there's nothing concrete except the transition; our BDP Group Deputy Director has expressed it, and so has the MHP spokesman. The example of the highways, where the courts have not been carried out, where the administration has disregarded the judicial decisions, is repeated over and over again on this stand. Well, is it done? It's never done. The number of subcontractors, which had previously been around 20,000 in public during the AKP's rule, is rapidly growing, and the number currently continues with a working environment in slavery conditions, a minimum wage, and a price of misery. And when we bring suggestions about it as opposition, you throw them away. They say, "You're throwing them away." No, we're not throwing away a lot of money. You give away the money you gave to the contractors, the resources you made the contractors rich, you give into the workers' pockets, you get those resources out of there, you give them to the workers. I mean, this money you gave us, but this money you gave the contractors, the supporters, we want to put it in the workers' pockets now, that's all we're saying. My dear friends, there are some very important issues today that I would like to share with you on this occasion. Now, yesterday, the United Metal Business Union of the DİSK was organized, taken over at a workplace. A hundred workers were laid off in Izmir, Luna Sayaç. So the union goes, organizes, but the freedom to organize doesn't exist in this country. 100 workers are on the street as soon as they're cleared. The workers who were fired are also acting in front of the factory in İzmir. Again, fellow workers resist in Greif Baga. What's he resisting? I'm considering 1,500 of my fellow workers... 1,500 of our fellow workers in Greif. They're standing in front of the factory in the process. What's the reason? They were organized for subcontractorship, and became members of the DİSK-based Textile Union. After becoming a member of the Textile Union, there are still those who have been fired -- about workers -- and there are no steps to eliminate this subcontractor application. Again, Kumport port workers from HAK-İSK are in resistance. You've been organized in the warehouses, and 114 of our fellow workers have been fired because they're unionists, and the resistance continues. Again, two hundred and eleven days in Punto, two hundred and eleven days in Kazlishme the Oliveburn, and 79 workers were thrown out of that office because they were unionists. Two hundred and eleven days there, fellow workers, dear friends in action. Again, resistance continues at Adana Balcani Hospital. There, the Revolutionary Health-Work Union of DİSK against subcontractorship was organized, and there, our fellow workers continue to fight in their tents because they resist subcontractorship. Again, workers working as subcontractors in the Izmir Gediz EDAŞ business, privatisation, Gediz Electric distribution, they want to be staffed, they want to be union members, our friends are in the resistance. FENIST Resistance began with resistance to 420 workers who were thrown out of FENIH Aluminum without paying their three-month salary, notices and severance pay. The resistance to Pakmaya depends on a business organised by our TEKGIDA-İSM Union, ÜRK-İSK. Here again, our friends were fired because they were union. My dear friends, the workers who were in bed stood up, walked all the way to Ankara, opposed this privatisation. This opposition is going to be privatized beyond unionism in Beden. For the first time, an important institution with the highest profitability rate is being privatised and again sought to attract capital, supporters. So, my dear friends, we've been talking about these problems over and over again as opposition, but no one's listening. It's like we're saying it to the wall, pretending to write on ice. What has been expressed around here will soon be avoided by the AKP spokesman again. Look, pensioners, look -- news I got today, I asked, I hope the Ministry of Health solves this -- a coffee is being scanned in Istanbul, and a friend of ours, who got shot in coffee, is a retired friend. I'll give you the name of one who's old enough to retire. Here, I said from this podium, there's no guarantees for pensioners, there's no social security. If they work, they'll be paid less if they retire. Most of them work off the books. We put it on this stand so we could take precautions on these things. It's not solved. Now this injured, paralyzed friend is held hostage in the hospital. I asked the Ministry of Health if you'd be so kind as to remove the hostage. Let's hope it comes back. So those who were old in retirement took action in Adana on this Sunday. What do they want? They want this process to be completed as a human being. We have friends who paid seven, eight, nine thousand, ten thousand days, but they can't retire, they're 50, 55 years old, they can't get a job anywhere. Come on, we're talking about solving this problem, we're expressing very simple fundamental problems here, my dear friends. We talked and talked and talked about the people of 4/C. Nice steps have been taken, we've never opposed the steps taken when they've been taken, there's a good thing about these friends of ours that can be restored. For the people of 4/C, once again, many bags of legislation are coming here... and the last time I brought a bag of laws here, you all rebelled. However, in that bag of legislation, what can we do at the point of resolving the problem of those four-accessors? There was a proposal for the removal of obstacles to the union organisation. Again, there was a regulation in that bag law on the removal of subcontractors. Guinea, in that bag of legislation, there was a legal arrangement to address the problem of pensioners. Guinea, there was an arrangement in that bag of legislation that would remove the obstacles to the future freedom of organisation. Still, my friends, look, Mr. Secretary of State has come out here, which is now linked to the Turkish-İSK-İSK-İSK, which is connected to DİSK, seven unions that have already crossed the dam, can't get authority under seven dams. Since those unions who have taken over ten percent of the dam before are not able to pass one percent now... I told you from this bench, because it's higher than 10 percent, we couldn't tell you here. Right now, seven unions are under the dam and no collective contract. Now, we're saying all these things, about these things, come, let's look into them, and the friends in the opposition are offering suggestions so that we can come up with a solution to them, and none of that is considered. So, dear friends, instead of dealing with this, let's get back to our main agenda. In this country, he says, let's fight against poverty, against corruption in this country, against theft together, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0054par0424	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0055par0425	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0054par0426	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0055par0429	We're trying to decorate our conversations with various visuals when we have a moment's promise from our location or when we're using the public's podium, trying to send a message. However, Parliamentary television constantly censors these images of us. When I showed the picture of a father carrying his son's body from here, he stopped showing me and started showing me the Deputy Speaker of Parliament. When Mr. Süleyman Çelebi gave his speech, they used all their skill to point from side to side, to point out this sign, and that sign, and that sign, there is no room for thieves in the council! They did their best not to show their writing. Those who listen to me when I'm talking there, they'll know when they see this footage. Sir, the BDP group proposal is being discussed. They used the tape to cover the thieves with BDP.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0056par0430	Put it around your neck, around your neck.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0057par0431	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0055par0432	My suggestion, Mr. President, is that the cameramen don't need to be afraid, the cameraman doesn't need to be afraid. I also condemn the Speaker of Parliament to hold Parliament TV under such pressure and judgment.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0058par0433	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0057par0434	Mr. President, the House TV Director can't arrange that based on visual messages and pirate visual messages, sir, would that be possible?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0059par0435	Mr. President, put it on your neck.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0060par0436	Sir, if you're against it, Mr. Vice President, go ahead and say it, Mr. Ünal. If you're against it, if you're not against it...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0061par0437	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0062par0438	Yes, I am.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0060par0439	Are you against it?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0063par0440	Put it around your neck, around your neck.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0062par0441	Brother, show me, who's the thief? Show me who's a thief?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0060par0442	Mr. Vice President, let the record show that you're against this.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0064par0443	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0062par0444	You can't commit crimes against people who haven't been convicted. If you respect the law, you can't accuse people of a crime that hasn't been cleared.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0064par0445	Please, don't talk to each other. Act according to Parliamentary standards. Mr. Horseman, please...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0065par0446	Let's all find the thieves. Otherwise, be cleared, sir, it's as simple as that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0066par0447	You clean up! Who do you declare guilty?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0067par0448	The House is not a court.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0065par0449	And don't block the courts, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0067par0450	Then if you have information, documents, you go to the D.A.'s office.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0068par0451	Please...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0065par0452	The D.A. has all the information, all the documents.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0067par0453	Take it to the D.A.'s office.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0068par0454	Congressmans, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0065par0455	Of course, in the D.A.'s office, and in the hands of the prosecutors you appointed.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0068par0456	Please don't act like this in the General Assembly, there's no such thing. You can't talk to each other, that's one.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0069par0457	She'll look better if she wears it around her neck.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0068par0458	I condemn Parliamentary television not to publish its speech during a congressman's speech.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0069par0460	What do you condemn?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0070par0461	Does he have the right to censor?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0068par0462	I also condemn the speech of the president of the Republican People's Party not being published before.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0071par0463	Not to publish a crime?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0068par0464	I've said it a few times, and I've said it over and over again since this House opened.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0072par0465	Well, isn't Parliament TV up to you?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0068par0466	I also condemn the Turkish Grand National Assembly's failure to broadcast its television. I've said it over and over again.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0072par0467	Parliament television is not an illegal television to broadcast illegal images.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0073par0468	Do you also condemn illegal broadcasters?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0072par0469	It's not TV that makes illegal broadcasts, it's Parliament TV.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0074par0470	Mr. President, right now you're sitting there representing the Speaker.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0072par0471	As acting Speaker of Congress, how do you get Parliament television to go against the law?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0075par0472	It was broadcast earlier as long as the General Assembly was working...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0076par0473	Do you condemn publishing illegal wiretaps?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0075par0474	I've also expressed the fact that it's not being done now in various ways, as well as in general with the Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0077par0475	You're not the Vice President of the CHP, you're the Deputy Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0078par0476	Parliament TV isn't TV to broadcast illegal things.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0079par0477	Be objective, neutral! Be neutral!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0080par0478	As long as Congress is working, Parliament TV should be broadcasting.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0081par0479	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0080par0480	I'm going to say this one more time.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0081par0482	Mr. President, you're not sitting there as a spokesman for a political party, you're representing the Speaker of Parliament. Of course, Congress TV is not a broadcaster of illegal images, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0082par0483	It's not illegal, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0083par0484	Of course. How dare you defend that!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0081par0485	Therefore, there is no parliamentary TV that has failed to publish the speech of any member of parliament. He's gonna make a special arrangement to show you a pirated image he's got? He's done his natural attraction. From here on out, you can't reflect your own political opinion of the Speaker from there to the House.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0084par0486	Don't judge, you'll see.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0083par0487	You've lost your neutrality.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0085par0488	I'm not projecting my political opinion to the House, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0086par0489	This is not in line with your neutrality.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0087par0490	It's not about politics.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0085par0491	I'm telling you what's supposed to happen; I'm telling you that Parliament TV has to broadcast as long as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey works, and that shouldn't be restricted.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0088par0492	He's doing it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0089par0493	At that moment, Parliament TV is broadcasting, but Parliament TV can't set its own broadcast according to the pirate shows here...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0090par0494	This isn't a pirate, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0089par0495	...he'll do his usual routine shoot. Is that possible, sir?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0090par0496	You don't answer to me, you answer to the thief.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0091par0497	You're like elementary school kids.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0092par0501	Şanlıurfa MP Mahmoud Runs against the Peace and Democracy Group proposal.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0093par0503	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group calls my friends' statement that there are no thieves in this House. We never... we just don't think he's supposed to be in the Veteran Assembly. If there is.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0092par0504	Mr. Aslanoglu, this matter has been discussed and ended; Mr. Kozar will speak. Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0094par0506	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the BDP group proposal. I hereby salute this great assembly. Dear friends, in the past few months, we've been discussing very intensively, almost every week, the research proposals that our fellow lawmakers from the opposition party have made regarding subcontractors. [[AK PARTY and CHP rows exchange speeches, noise]] Mr. President, will you interfere with our friends?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0095par0510	Go ahead, go ahead, I don't know what happened.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0094par0511	Dear friends...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0095par0512	Congressmans, please do not discuss the debate inside the General Assembly, if you want to speak backstage. We'll listen to the congressman. Congressmans, please don't argue here.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0096par0514	Mr. President, alert the opposition. Warn the opposition, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0095par0515	I'm warning you, sir. Please, MPs, if you're going to argue, please discuss backstage, the General Assembly is not the way to conduct this discussion. Please! Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0097par0518	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion to investigate subcontractors. I hereby salute the High Council. For the past month, almost every week, we've been talking about parliamentary research proposals for these issues, and there's been a lot of work to be done by subcontractors to make intense criticisms of what the AK PARTI governments have done about their working life, especially about things that are thought to be met on the field, especially before the local elections. If these proposals are brought up in the approach of working life, before local elections, to open a space for ourselves, then we have the opportunity to see that no space will be opened for anyone, that in the last 11 years of AK PARTI power, employees will be paid in full human dignity, that they have modern working conditions, and that these approaches are not the right approach when we see them. Dear friends, the main objective of the motion for subcontractors here is to identify problems with our employees and to determine the road map of solution proposals for them. It's not like we're making a sentence out of this podium, contrary to sentences about the problems of subcontractors. Our subcontractors have problems, and we're not at a different point where there's a problem with the conditions of our subcontractors' severance, whether or not the fees they received were taken on time. But we don't approve of the way the sentences are drawn from this, the government, or the pre-election opposition's approach to opening space for itself. There are meetings with subcontractors and labor associations at different times in the chairmanship of our Minister of Labor. There are studies of civil society organisations that represent both labor associations and the trilateral council of relevant unions. The problems here have been raised under 14 basic topics, and the preparations for the legal arrangement regarding them -- I also expressed in my speech last week -- have been referred to the Council of Ministers. One of the key agendas of the recent Council of Ministers agenda is the legal arrangement that will address the problems of our subcontractors. Dear friends, first of all, the application of subcontractors is not an app that began during the AK PARTI administration period. The application for subcontractors is an app that began in 1936. Then, in 1971, and in 2003, it was an application that continued along with Labour Law number 1475. Now, here I particularly want to address our subcontractor brothers from the council's bench. We know about your problems. We are members of a government that has seriously discussed your problems with your problems with your severance, your problems with working conditions, and your problems with your contract at the end of the year due to the fact that you have had another year, and that you have completed the legal arrangement for this, which has been referred to the Council of Ministers, and has made the necessary talks to the final cabinet of Ministers. Just as we've established a sincere will about all the issues on the agenda so far, just as we've made the necessary legal arrangements for these matters, as the EC PARTI authorities have, the power to solve the problems of our subcontractors is the EC PARTI government and the group is the group that will implement the legal arrangement. Here, the speakers before us talked about the 4/C people, and they talked about different employment models. Yes, there were problems with different employment models in this country before the EC PARTY. Prior to the AK PARTI administration, there were practices that were working at the same place, taking different fees for having the same job, having different status, but with the AK PARTI power, the end of the legal regulation of acting midwife-sister practices; 4924, the end of contract staff practices; 4/B employees in the era before us were powered by the 4/A/A, and the power of the AKPI was to end all approaches that were lacking from all social and autonomy rights that had the most basic rights to do the same thing. He told me about the 4/C. I would like to remind our millions of viewers of the 4/C (c) who are watching at the beginning of the screen: When did the 4/C program begin? The 4/C app... after the privatisation of 1994, the privatized employees were being kicked out of business in the previous administrations. As a result of privatisation between 1994 and 2004, tens of thousands of working workers were terminated. In 2004, during the time of the EC PARTI administration, in order for our employees not to be victimised by this privatisation, there was an arrangement made by the Council of Ministers to deliver bread to their homes and children, and the employment of our fellow workers who were victims of privatisation has been opened in the public institutions of 4/C. In the tens of thousands of privatisation victims in the tens of years before us were unfortunately terminated, while starting in 2004, this privatisation victim was allowed to bring bread home to our brothers and sisters, who themselves were employed in public. With the arrangements we've made from 2004 to now -- Mr. Çelebi has just expressed in part -- the 4/C Boys had no union rights in this country, they were deprived of the rights of organisation, which was the most fundamental rights of the unions. The AK PARTY was granted the right to join and organize trade unions during the ruling period of the EC PARTY. Our brothers and sisters from 4/C have a right to work for 11 months and 28 days while they had ten months before. At the moment, all permits granted to civil servants regarding annual permits are also known to our brothers and sisters from 4/C. One of the criticisms we've been given is that when we give officers the right to a collective contract, the most important criticism brought to us by opposition party lawmakers was, is there such a collective contract law? Our fellow MP at the opposition party just told our 4/A staff friends about the strike rights. In all the times in this country, when the EC PARTY has told government officials about collective agreements, all authorities have imposed on them to give up their employment guarantees. But in the AK PARTI administration, the government's job security was untouched, while civil servants were granted collective agreements. Currently, their salary has been seriously improved, close to 50 per cent, in the last collective agreement concerning the 4/C (C) people. Look, I'll share a few digits with you: The salary that our first-school graduate brother received in December was $1.030, and he's now being paid $1.520. In this country, where inflation is single-digit, the improvement to 4/C is around 50 percent. Why am I saying all this? The legal arrangements for business health and safety, the right to collective agreements on civil servants, and the same wages for equal employment in this country, both by ending different employment models. In this country, civil servants wanted to move to institutions other than the institutions where they were civil servants, a significant part of the visits made during the first days of our power. Why? Because there were different price policies in different institutions with the same title, but praise be to God, the price they're getting in all titles now is the same. Today, officers receive the same fee in the DSI, the same in agriculture and the same in health. We're the ones who do the equal wage for equal work. We're the ones who ended different employment models and put in the staff practice on 4/B. In international norms about occupational health and safety, it's our government that does business health and safety. It is our power that paves the way for the right to organize 4/C. Just as the revolutionary practices of the democratisation of working life have been carried out in this country by Allah's will, so are the legal arrangements that have now been completed by our subcontracted brothers and sisters in the Council of Ministers -- by law in the Parliament General Assembly as soon as possible, I say we will resolve our problem with these brothers and salute the Grand Assembly with these feelings.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0098par0532	Thank you, Mr. Runar. The Peace and Democracy Group has proposed...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0099par0534	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit04spe0098par0535	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0098par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Party for Peace and Democracy's proposal was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient, and I'm going to do it with the electronics. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party Group under the 19th Article of the Civil Code is not accepted, and the decision is sufficient. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Wednesday (February 26, 2014), since there is no consensus among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On February 26, 2014 and on February 26, 2014, a general meeting of İzmir MP Oktay Seral and Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu, which he had given the presidency of TBM with 3698 points, was proposed on Wednesday (February 26, 2014) in the General Assembly of Azerbaijan's Hodja massacre of 613 Azerbaijan Turks, as well as 106 women, 63 children, and 613 Azerbaijan Turks murdered. In favour of the proposal, Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0100par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you all know that today is February 26th and 22nd anniversary of a genocide in the city of Hodjalı, Azerbaijan, 22 years ago. Dear lawmakers, if we here today remove the injustice done to Hodjalı, the injustice done to our brothers and sisters, whose only crime is to become Turks and Muslims, we can be sure that after this, similar genocides will not leave our brothers and sisters in many parts of the Turkish and Muslim world alone. Today, Telafer is in the same danger. Today, the Crimean Autonomous Region of Ukraine, which is troubled by internal confusion, has the same problem, the same challenge, and the same danger. Today in East Turkistan, it is the same problem for the Turks of East Turkia, whose only crime is Turkish and Muslim. It is necessary, not only for them to be Turkish and Muslim, but for them to be wherever they are in the world, in order to stop the conscious massacres, the conscious genocides, or, in fact, all genocides that have been committed, that the Hodja genocide should be discussed, spoken, and given by the High Assembly in order to stop it. Azerbaijan did not face only the Hodja genocide, but on January 20, 1990, when Russian tanks entered Baku, the Turks of Azerbaijan were massacred, and similar results, similar landscapes appeared in the massacre of the Armenians against the Turks of Azerbaijan on March 31st. Hence, in Azerbaijan, dear friends, carnations have become a symbol of martyrdom in Azerbaijan, the flower, rose, carnations, and particularly carnations that people give to their lovers on Valentine's Day, to congratulate each other on a celebration, a birthday celebration. I, too, will place the carnation flower, the symbol of this martyrship in Azerbaijan, on the stand of our great Parliament, the Veteran Assembly, and underline the need for our Veteran Assembly not to remain silent on this matter. Today, I thank the members of the group, and the MPs of all parties, who shared their feelings and thoughts on this matter. But that's not enough. I believe that in order for us to have no more genocides, to have no more massacres, we have to answer here as Congress to crimes against humanity, regardless of ethnic origin, wherever it may be in the world, no matter what ethnicity, no matter what faith it may have come from. Of course, many things can be done, dear friends, that will not oppose the state's foreign policy, that will not contradict our foreign policy, that will not contradict our international struggle. We don't discuss such matters in Parliament, we don't discuss the charges against us in Parliament. We pass them on to the other side for an excuse or for a reason. No one should expect us to remain silent on such a matter. Unfortunately, no one has been able to look at what we have agreed to in the House and what they want to do about it. Generally, political decisions are made in parliaments in this sense. A hundred years ago, without looking at the archives, without listening to the historians, these decisions are made from parliament. But what we're talking about here today is not a historical event that can be left to historians, nor is it a case that's cold enough to be looked at in the archives. Twenty-two years ago, in the eyes of the world, we see the evidence and the proof of it not only from our side or from our Azerbaijan brothers, but also from the Bulgarian journalists, French journalists, or even from Russian journalists, all the details of how the Armenians were involved in that massacre, in the books of the Armenians who were in that genocide, in the trophies, in the books written by the Armenians. With all the details of what Armenian journalists, Armenian writers, and even those who participated in this genocide, we still have to leave it to the historians, for some reason, to keep quiet about this issue, such as it is not the duty of parliament. Dear MPs, if you don't want to make a law on this issue, if you're against making a law on this issue, then let's take a decision to commemorate our brothers who were murdered in Azerbaijan, Hodjalı on February 26th in all the cities of Turkey. Let's get together in a reasonable manner. Let's agree to a decision to build a mastered genocide memorial. So, if you want to do something about it, maybe what we're going to do here isn't going to ease the pain, but at least a little bit of it, we have to show here that we share those sufferings not only with words, but with action, and with that, if we don't want to remain silent in the town of Hodjalı twenty-two years ago, underline the genocide committed by the Armenians, the teacher who committed one crime in Azerbaijan, being a Muslim, the Turkish nation's member of the Turkish nation, and not just by the killing of our citizens of Azeska and the Turks of Azerbaijan, then we'll have to make a decision against them by making a decision, or by the high school teacher's office, or by the assembly, which is to become a member of the Turkish nation. I assure you, this will not cause any of the concerns that our State Department has considered. I'm speaking as a friend of yours who's worked on these topics for years, and I'm speaking as a friend of yours, who's a little bit more or less dedicated to the subtleties of foreign policy. We can draw a reasonable conclusion in this regard, we can agree on a reasonable basis, and in this regard, we will have fulfilled both a brotherly debt and a human debt. If Honduras accepts this, if Pakistan accepts this, if other countries agree to this, then Turkey wants to express to you that it is unacceptable for Turkey to avoid this with just a few statements, and that we will meet in a reasonable manner.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0101par0027	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Against him, Iconian MP Mustafa zucchini. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Pumpkin.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0102par0031	Mr. President, on behalf of my group, I have made a promise to share my feelings on the 22nd anniversary of the Hodja massacre. At the beginning of my words, I ask God's mercy on all of our martyrs who were martyred as a sin in Hodjalı. There are some reflexes that our people have in history, as individuals have in their own way in the face of events. We're a people who don't know how to cry much when it comes to things like other nations. Sadly, there is a saying in Asia Minor: "We are a nation accustomed to burying our sorrows in us all the time. " I think it's time for everyone who hears the pain, hears the pain, wants to see it, doesn't want to see it. The year was 1992, February 25th at around 11:00 p.m. on the night of February 26th, when our descendants, the same culture, the same faith, faced an attack on our people. Armenians' efforts to purge Turkish lands originally began in the 1800s, in 1920, in 1945, and in 1988. With Russia's support in 1988, Erevan (Azerbaijan)'s ethnic cleansing policy against the Turks was not limited to this migration. The historic lands of Azerbaijan were occupied by Karabağ the Mountain, and the seven rails around it were occupied by Armenia. This occupation is also proven under the United Nations Security Council's 822, 853, 874, 884, and under the title of the final situation in Azerbaijan territory, which was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on March 14, 2008. It took place in the fourth stage of the massacre, but the continuing politics of Armenians against the Turkish Azerbaijan since the 19th century have been an event. It's not the Hodjas who were killed at Hoxhalı, but the Armenians who acted in revenge on the Turkish nation. Those who were killed there were martyred not because they were in Hoxhalı, but because they were in the Turkish nation. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, Hodja was of great strategic importance to Azerbaijan. The only airport in the mountain was here. When the teacher massacre started, he was there preparing for flights. This was a challenge to the world that did not see the truth in Hodja. International law was once again violated in Hodja. Ten miles [11 km] from Hodja, Haniş was the political centre of the Mountain Karabağ, and Baku-Handi's railway, Baku-Shusha was passing through Hodjalı. After having a teacher, Shusha would also have a reduced influence on the Armenians. It was important for the Armenians to seize Hodjalı to reach out freely to other places in which he and the Armenian population were in large numbers. From October 1991, the only transportation to Hodja was from the air. The last helicopter arrived here on February 13, 1992. Food, fuel, ammunition supplies were exhausted, the city was exposed, electricity-free, fuel-free. There were about 200-250 people who could only protect the city, and when I said -- as I mentioned earlier -- February 1992/25, at 23 p.m. The army of Armenia and the Soviet Union of Socialist Republics in Mount Karabağ are 366. Russian regimental troops attacked their defenseless Hodja people. 366 first. With the help of the regiment's artillery fire and tanks, military districts and key points have been distributed in the city. The Hodjas who protected the city continued to fight until their last shot. Tens of people died fighting from night to night. The city's in-and-out points were closed, and then a way out was decided to be left behind. People who tried to save their lives wanted to leave the city this way, but they were brutally slaughtered by the Armenian trap. The losses were terrifying. According to official figures, 613 civilians were killed in Hodjalı. Among them were 63, 106, women, and 70, 239, who were killed by special torture methods, and 487 by heavy body damage. Children and women have been tortured. Of these hostages, 1,165 were later rescued from the Armenians, and the remaining 110 were found - 68 of whom were women and 22 of whom were children - and there was no news of them. Not only did the Armenians kill the people they killed, they were severely tortured just to spread fear, to cover the entire region of terror, to get the Turkish population out of there. There are foreigners who have landed in that area, and there are things that those foreigners say. One of the journalists says: "The scalps of murdered people are cut off, the outer organs cut off, the eyes of murdered babies and children carved out with screwdrivers, the stomachs of pregnant women torn open, the people buried alive are some scenes that can be seen in Hodja. There are articles about which Western journalists have written that we are very hard to read, pictures that they have taken, images that they have taken. The whole world was talking about something that didn't happen in 1915, and they called it genocide, which came out of the conjunctural conditions of that day, and they had pictures of it right in front of them, and they didn't do anything about it. It's a moment when the hypocrisy of the world comes to light. What should be done for the teacher? In terms of international law, there is much work to be done for what happened in Hodja. Of course, the most important of all is justice and justice. To date, justice has been carried out, punishment of criminals, political and legal decisions that will at least cover the victims' victims' victims. Official events held abroad in Azerbaijan and Turkey include demonstrations in front of representatives of the United Nations in some countries, attempts to inform the public and officials of foreign countries organised by student associations in various countries. The Islamic Conference Dialogue and Co-operation Youth Forum also carried out various activities. It is our duty to increase these activities and ensure that the spilled blood does not remain on the ground, to answer for it from those who have committed this massacre. Again I pray for the mercy of God to our brothers who died in Azerbaijan, and to all of you, and to all of you, and to all of you, and to all of you, and to all of you, I salute.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0103par0044	Thank you, Mr. Pumpkin. On the other hand, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0104par0048	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly again. Dear friends, we spoke in the morning, yes, today is the 22nd anniversary of the Hodja massacre. Hoxhalı is indeed the greatest human drama in the last quarter of the 20th century, a crime against humanity, a massacre that matches the description of genocide, and unfortunately, one of those who committed that massacre is now President of Armenia. First of all, we are not enemies of the Armenians, of the Armenian people. [[Iğdır MP Sinan Okan has dropped carnations on the speaker's stand]] Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Yes, red carnations are good for us to remember their teaching martyrs. Thank you. We're not enemies with the Armenians. The Armenians were our loyal subjects in this land in the past. In collaboration with the imperialists, because they collaborated with their own enemies in the First World War, the Tahnaks, especially the Ottoman state at the time, also did so, as they transported them to safer areas, behind the front, into the Syrian lands today. The government at the time did the same thing. Therefore, we have no problem with the Armenian people, but Armenian rulers have problems with the rulers of Armenia. Today Armenia still sees some of our eastern provinces as Western Armenia. Armenian President Sarkisyan, we have taken Karabağ, and I hope you'll get Mount Ağrı. He says, "He's out of line and sets his dreams in his imagination." So they have a problem with us. In 1914, they are still suffering from genocide delusions as an excuse for events in 1915. If Armenia's administration and Armenia's diaspora backs down on these three issues, if genocide gives up on the delusions, if he gives up on Turkey's claim of rights, and withdraws from the 20 per cent land of the occupied Azerbaijan, it's okay, we're friends with the Armenians, come, we can continue our journey as our loyal subjects, as they were in the past; there's no problem, there's no problem. But it's not that, unfortunately, in the Western world, especially because of the better work of the Armenian diaspora, the better lobbying activities, there are decisions against Turkey that we don't deserve, and some parliaments accept some decisions, some laws. One of the parliaments that adopts these laws is the French Parliament. Also, France, the French Senate, has tried to accept another thing: this Armenian genocide lie, sir, there is no such thing. He brought up a law that considered it a crime to say, two years ago, you know. So he brought a law against freedom of expression, like Switzerland had done before. I hereby congratulate Mr. East Perinchek, Chairman of the Labour Party for his struggle. I send him my regards from here to Silivri, for disbursing the slander against the Republic of Turkey in the European Court of Human Rights. So we, Turkey, are now defending something we don't deserve. And here comes 2015. The government and diaspora of Armenia are doing very serious work on 2015. Armenia, who can't feed its own people, has set aside a budget like $10 billion for 2015. I'm specifically warning the government from here. Of course, there's no one from the government. I don't think they're interested in this, but they seem to be interested in other things. I mean, now, with all the serious stuff, I don't mean to say, we'll get back to that later. Now, I'm warning the government that the Republic of Turkey is more concerned. Here comes 2015, government, what are you doing? What kind of studies are you taking about 2015, about the genocide lie of Armenia, and what measures are you taking? So I warn you, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, as a parliamentarian, as a Turkish citizen of Azerbaijan. And I invite you to do your duty. Let the public know that. So, as we brought and heated and heated the 1915 incident with the Armenian Diaspora and put it in front of us, what happened in 1992, twenty-two years ago, in front of the world, according to reports of the Human Rights Watch, we have not made a decision about a major civil massacre, which is considered a crime against humanity, unfortunately, as a Parliamentary genocide. I -- don't get me wrong -- I don't want this matter to be known as a genocide by Parliament. This is a legal matter -- the matter of genocide. Therefore, it is not the work of parliament. It's more of a matter for legal authorities, courts and historians to decide. And we're not against commissions again, there's no problem with a commission, but there are certain conditions. But our Parliament is at least... I think a monument may be erected, a monument to the nationalist movement party we've just discussed with the group's valued MP, Iğdır MP Sinan Okan. At least, as the Iğdır MP Sinan Okan said, to symbolise the genocide of Hodja, the massacre of Hodjas, the crime against humanity in Hodja. I mean, it's nice to be up here every year on February 26th and have one of every political party talking about the same thing, actually, and I'm happy about it. All of our parties today, all of our parties in Parliament, had the same reaction to Hodja. Yes, that's what suits us, the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey. In fact, we need to show that attitude in other matters. So, from here, I'd like to thank the groups of all political parties again. It was a good example, so that's how it should be in national matters. All parties are parties of this country, legitimate parties. Thus, it is a fine example of this attitude in matters that concern our country. I hope we'll have the same attitude in other matters as we do today. It's not enough, I mean, it's not enough, it's really not enough for him to stay here. Because this issue, especially 2015, I warn you again, is a matter of interest to all of us, a matter that concerns the Republic of Turkey, a matter that concerns our future generations. While we defend these, dear friends, on the subject of Hodja, we are not actually defending the rights of another country. So, as Haydar Aliyev, the founder of Azerbaijan, a valued statesman, said, we are already a nation, two different states. Again, as Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, says, the joy of Azerbaijan is our joy, our grief. Azerbaijan has made the biggest contribution to the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, making the biggest contribution. (HPP) Here, the People's Republic of Azerbaijan at the time -- you know, Neriman Nerimanov -- has sent oil and oil in addition to the Salvation War, sending money. The day before Ataturk launched the Battle of Commander-in-Chief Square, he gathered all foreign ambassadors together as an excuse for a meeting, and the Azerbaijan Embassy was an instrument. With the knowledge of Azerbaijan's ambassador, everyone went to the front and launched the Great Attack. Thus, our citizens of Baku, Gence, Azerbaijan, are now in Çanakkale as martyrs. Just as the Turkish Martyr in Baku, the Hyacinth of the Martyrs, my lord Diyarbakır, Mardin, Konya, Ereğli, Kars, Edirne, our martyrs -- under the command of Nuri Pasha -- lie down in sheep with the brothers of Azerbaijan, where the citizens of Azerbaijan lie with our martyrs in Çanakkale. Thus, we are truly one; two, Turkey's interest in the Caucasus is necessarily equivalent to Azerbaijan. Today, the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Pipeline is a major economic project that connects Baku-Tiflis-Kars Iron Road, Turkey and Azerbaijan, again, to transport Caspian gas to Europe. I'm out of time. We will vote that this motion will be accepted, and I hope you will, too. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0105par0067	Thank you, Mr. Original. Against him, Elazığ MP Shuay alpay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Albany.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0106par0071	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion on the group's proposal for the massacre of Hodja from the MPHP. I hereby salute your high council. The night of February 25th of 1992, connecting February 26th, was the night of the horrors of hatred, sadness, grief, loneliness, and all manner of shameful paintings in the name of mankind. Again, tonight was a busy night in which unmanly Armenian gangs, with the help of the Russians, collapsed on the innocent people without human rights, using the mechanisms of treason, immorality, and all forms of cruelty, recorded as the dark page of history, and that night, babies were slaughtered in Hodja. For Hodja, the poet is a city of babies, the city of angels. He says, because that night there were babies who had been brutally murdered before they could grow up, and for him, the teacher passed on to the entire history of mankind as a black page. It is also an exemplary picture to see what kind of results come from human approaches, experiences that feed on hatred and hatred, and this approach. Yes, with the support of the Russians, especially in the name of history, as we know, with the support of the 366th Regiment, the Armenian forces collapsed animalically and cruelly on the innocents who were there, in the way that first held the entrances and exits of the village of Hodja. By creating very heavy paintings with cannon fire there, they massacred and martyred 613 Azerbaijan citizens, including 83 of whom were children, 106 of whom were women, and more than 70 of whom were older. About 1,275 prisoners remain on the dusty pages of the date where he was lost around 150. In all, we know that nearly 1 million Azerbaijan citizens are being held hostage in great sadness by the fact that after this brutal attack, they breathed and migrated from the geography that made them themselves. For nearly twenty-two years, our Azerbaijan citizens have been under great torture, away from their homes, away from their homes, trying to live their lives in great pain. Turkey is part of Azerbaijan, part of Azerbaijan Turkey. Turkey's sadness is the sadness of Azerbaijan, Azerbaijan's sadness is the sadness of Turkey. We, a nation, have set out with two state slogans; we are the two great states of common origin, common faith, common history, and common culture. Yes, Turkey and Azerbaijan are two major states that guide the course of history, set the course for the course of history, and took on an important mission in this regard, and Turkey has known its own pain, its own sadness. We have known our citizens who were slaughtered there to be our own citizens, our own people and our own lives, and we have always judged them that way. Turkey has always experienced this sadness, and Turkey has never allowed these sufferings to be forgotten. In particular, we've sometimes expressed it during the Parliamental work, and our friends who just spoke from other groups expressed it. Indeed, with his opposition and his power, this issue was perceived as a joint national issue of Turkey. Yes, the massacre of Hodjas is a common pain of Azerbaijan, not only of Azerbaijan, but of Turkey, and its collective suffering has been noted in history. There's a particular study of this. On February 22, 2012, an agenda was established in the Foreign Commission, and talks were held on it, and it is clear to everyone that a unanimous decision has been made to the full public. And Turkey, in particular, has fulfilled its obligations from the very first day on this issue, and has always maintained its political efforts as a black spot, which, in the process, will be considered a despicable and treacherous attack on various parts of the country, as a disgrace to human history. Today, as all the public has followed, a monument to the massacre of Hakatören in Hakören has also been opened with the participation of our chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. This makes it very clear how sensitive and sensitive we approach this issue, and it stands out in clear, concrete evidence. Of course, the findings made by the Human Rights Watch in particular after the massacre have left a lot of painful memories in the minds, the fact that many of the bodies have been burned, some have been amputated, and some of the bodies have been subjected to cruel torture, and pregnant women and babies have been subjected to these tortures. For him, there is no way that the massacre of Hodja could be forgotten or forgotten. In this sense, in this context, Turkey has accepted this issue as its own matter, not as a side of hatred and hatred forever, but as a way to prevent suffering from ever happening again, so that these massacres may never be allowed to be paraded again, and will continue to make every effort with the sensitivity that is on its part. The history of Azerbaijan is an epic history of the struggle for freedom and independence throughout the world. When Azerbaijan first declared his independence in 1918, my grandfather Mehmet Kasım Bey was there; my grandfather Mehmet Kasım Bey also showed great benefit in the establishment of the Republic of Azerbaijan. However, the Russians and Armenians also collapsed in 1920, as a nightmare, on Azerbaijan, who declared his independence, and fought a Gence epic battle in 1920 in the invasion of the Gence. In that epic battle, my grandfather Mehmet Kasım Bey, born in Gence, was also involved in the conflict on the street, on the house, on the street, on the street, on the street, on the street, on the street, but the result came as a known outcome and the Gence fell. Then, along with Mehmet Kassim Bey, the Mujahideen, who had set out to fight for the freedom of Azerbaijan, for the freedom of Azerbaijan, for the freedom of Azerbaijan, went up to the mountains and fought for independence and freedom for nearly 20 years, and I am the grandson of your grandfather. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For him, there is an ancient, historical, radical link between Azerbaijan and Turkey that will last forever, and there is a bridge. For him, Turkey's approach to every national issue regarding Azerbaijan, not just the Hodja massacre, is as sincere and sincere as Azerbaijan, and so close. And everyone needs to see it and know it once more. Those who fought with Mehmet Kasım Bey have prepared the 1991ESTs to give the Azerbaijan their freedom, and Azerbaijan has earned the independence he deserved in 1991. All must be sure that Turkey will follow Azerbaijan's issues with such precision as its own, and we will have the same approach in future processes. No matter who the massacre comes from -- as in the massacre of the teacher -- it's inhuman, it's a representation of violence, so we have to stand up to all of it and stand up to it. We have to express it as the nature of humanity and law. We say no more massacres, no more new Hodjas. However, we sincerely desire that more than twenty years of captivity be brought to an end in the land of Karabağ the Mountain, and the freedom of Karabağ the Mountain, and the freedom and independence of Azerbaijan's occupied lands. I call upon the mercy of my Lord to all of our martyrs who lost their lives in the massacre of Hodja with these feelings and thoughts, and repeat that we share this pain as a common pain of Turkey and Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), and once again express my faith that Turkey will represent the Hodja massacre of Azerbaijan as well as it can on any platform. I salute the high council with love, respect, conversation.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0107par0087	Thank you, Mr. Albany. I submit to your votes the proposal of the National Party for Action: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process, and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 26/2/2014 meeting Wednesday (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 27/1/2014, the National Assembly of Turkey's National Assembly was given the Council of Parliament for Research (1259 rows) by Manisa MP Hasan Ören and 21 lawmakers to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating corruption and corruption and corruption and the damage done to the country. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Wednesday 26/2/2014 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favor of the proposal, Manisa MP Hasan Ören. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0101	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. Really, after December 17th, everything began to change in Turkey. It's necessary for the legislature to maintain control of the executive. It's hard to live, but unfortunately, it doesn't do or do what it wants, or do what it wants. I really care about this research proposal for him. Since 17 December, in Turkey, claims that some believe in right and wrong -- some believe not -- about corruption, about theft -- continue. So, what is Parliament's duty, what is its duty? It is the duty of parliament to facilitate the work of law, to enforce laws, to enforce laws; if there are problems with governance; if the public is confused; if there are some issues that are wrong in managing them; if there are things that are wrong with them; to carry out tasks on these matters, by establishing research commissions; to investigate these matters, as well as the commission of coups, or so on. Since December 17th, right or wrong, there have been serious allegations in Turkey. And with regard to these allegations, this House needs to do something. With unity, the opposition extends its hand to you. It is clear and clear what the opposition has said: let's set up a research commission on these allegations spoken in Turkey since December 17th, from the children of ministers to the Prime Minister. Let's really investigate these, and if there are any errors with these tapes or such claims, let's tell our citizens of Turkey about this. Otherwise, this matter will go on and on and on. In the face of the Prime Minister's constant language and the Prime Minister's continued giving false information to society, the opposition, of course, will continue to say about it on this bench. But every time the opposition brings theft, corruption, irregularity to this stand, you all get nervous, you're all upset at a certain point, you never accept false information, false information that the Prime Minister has told you. See, at a meeting with lawmakers yesterday morning, at breakfast, the Prime Minister himself said that the $4.5 million that was captured or found in the boxes of the Halkbank General Manager had been returned, but in the same matter, Halkın, Süleyman Beyin's attorney, Ersan Shen, found out that such money was definitely not returned, that it was his lawyer himself, that what he told the MPs at breakfast would be the first to know. You're not offended, you're not offended. I mean, on purpose, you see the wrong, you see the wrong, the wrong information, you're not offended. What was this lawyer friend of ours? He was also the lawyer of the Lighthouse. Well, then, at this time, what didn't you say about those prosecutors? The reports have been destroyed, all the records have been tampered with, all the prosecutors must be tried. You said, "All the prosecutors must be tried." You said, and those prosecutors were tried, and as of yesterday they were acquitted, so you tried to cover up the Lighthouse. You blamed all the prosecutors so you could cover them. You said, "There is corruption in the papers." You said, and you said, "All the prosecutors should be acquitted." Don't you owe an apology to the prosecutors you accused of the Lighthouse? I think you do. So, my dear friends, the Prime Minister, the last time the tape went online, you're all saying in chorus that it was edited, what happened before that? I said from this stand, I said, "You didn't call the Home Secretary's son's speech a montage." He's having a talk with the Home Secretary's son, and he's taking over, and you didn't say any of you could edit it -- even though all of our friends are talking about it here. You didn't say "asses of steel" at his son's house. You didn't say "assembled photos." You did not object to the Prime Minister's phone calls regarding the reduction of the 1st-degree area in Urla. The Prime Minister's talk with businessmen, the pool he's building, the ATV and the daily Sabah, you've never made any statements about the way these funds were collected, you've never said editing. Now, the last one, we won't. It's based on the Prime Minister you call it. The moment he leans on the Prime Minister, all of you together, we won't be able to feed him again, that's a lie. How is that a lie? What kind of lie? If you call this a lie, these reports go to America in 24 hours -- although there are twelve hours difference between us and the United States -- to check if there's a montage there, and they come to Turkey at jet speed. Well, if you showed that sensitivity in young lieutenants' private phone calls, you should have shown it for wet signatures. Have you ever considered asking the United States to help you speak to the generals? So when there were so many injustices in the Turkish Armed Forces, with so many allegations going around, the Justice and Development Party didn't show that sensitivity, but now, son, what about the money in the house?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0109par0106	They're lies. They say it's editing, and you're still doing politics on it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0107	My dear, I'm asking about your money.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0109par0108	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0109	What should we do with 30m euros? That's all we've got left. Why do you call these allegations shameful?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0109par0110	Of course it is.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0111	I don't think it's rude of you to tell me about these allegations yesterday.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0109par0112	I've been told all these conversations have been edited. You're doing politics on editing!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0113	Why are these allegations about the Prime Minister being rude now? Isn't there something else in your memory? What's bothering you? What did the Prime Minister say?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0110par0116	We're not bored, we're bored with your lies.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0117	"Thief does not pass from son to father, but theft goes from father to son," he said. The Prime Minister must have known that years ago! Now, if you'd like, let's make a comparison.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0110par0119	Hasan Ören, you're being very rude, you know.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0120	You can ask the TİB about the relationship with the Prime Minister's son, the hours of his phone calls, there's no need to go too far. You want -- eight o'clock in the morning, 11.37, 12.58 -- all the calls are there. You don't have to object. Why do you object? Why are you getting angry?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0111par0121	You're lying!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0122	Why didn't you react when those young lieutenants were 18 months in, and 350 numbers were written on their phone? Aren't they the mama's boys of this country? Aren't they the people who live in this country, and you have a responsibility to them? When he gets there, there's nothing there, and when the needle hits you, you yell and scream. Don't shout. You have no right to shout.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0112par0123	You're lying, you're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0124	Here, in the middle. Are you willing to expose these allegations?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0112par0125	You're not talking right.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0108par0126	Come on, vote for the research motion. The research motion elects members of all parties, MPs to the commission by representation. Let's go, let's ask the TİB, as MPs, we have the right to ask them as commissions. My dear friends, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Bilal Erdogan; Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu, Kerem Kılıçdaroğlu... on one hand the claim that Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Bilal Erdogan stole the labor and sweat of this people, and on the other hand Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu and Kerem Kılıçdaroğlu... are also playing the drums, but he plays the drums. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0113par0130	You're so funny! You'll be crushed under this, Mr. Hasan Ören, you'll be crushed under this.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0114par0131	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Against him, Ankara MP Fatih Şahin...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0113par0134	You won't be able to go out on the streets of Manisa. You won't be able to walk through the streets of Manisa.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0115par0135	What you know best is to threaten.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0114par0136	Mr. Kören...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0115par0137	The job you know best is to threaten, that's all you've got.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0116par0138	Get in your seat, man! Get in your seat! Don't shout!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0114par0139	Mr. Ören, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0115par0140	You threaten the officer, you threaten the worker, you don't know anything else.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0117par0141	I'm not threatening anyone. I'm telling you because you're lying.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0114par0142	Mr. Ören, thank you, please take your seat.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0118par0143	Get the fuck back in your place! What are we gonna do, listen to you? Don't talk nonsense! You're doing politics through editing.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0119par0144	It's up to the tapes!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0114par0145	Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0120par0147	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party group proposal, and I salute you all. The Republican People's Party group proposal proposes to investigate operations launched on 17 December 2013. First, what happened on December 17, 2013?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0121par0150	There's been a coup, you've been framed!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0120par0151	Since 17 December 2013, what has been happening in this country has been happening, and we need to make it very clear and clear.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0121par0152	They set you up!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0120par0153	On December 17, 2013, in fact, we find that the unregistered neovenomous centers, which no longer feel the need to hide within the state, have attempted a coup under the guise of a legal investigation. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Turkey's solving problems, Turkey's disposing of its burdens, its shackles, Turkey's regional and global claims, its servants and subcontractors...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0122par0156	So catching thieves is a coup?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0120par0157	...of this junta that has been donated to Turkey in judgment and police bureaucracy...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0123par0158	Well, well, who brought it? Did the CHP bring them, too? Who made them?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0120par0159	...that he has set a despicable trap for the state and nation of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0123par0160	Who set that vile trap for Hanefi Avcı? Who set up the vile trap of Ilker Basbug?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0120par0161	The trap, which aims to bring Turkey back from its blessed journey, is an autonomous structure with its own future agenda and goals, organized by a gang.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0123par0162	Who set a vile trap for East Perinchek? Who set Mustafa Balbaya a vile trap?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0120par0163	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0123par0164	Who set the trap for Tuncay Ozkan? Who set up the vile trap for Mehmet Ali Çelebi?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0124par0165	The gang put the money there?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0125par0166	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0167	...our nation has always been the winner in the time of the AK PARTY. We've always used this country's human resources, of course, for the service of our nation during our 12 years of power.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0127par0168	Who set up that vile plot for Ilker Basbug? Who set Mustafa Balbaya up that vile plot?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0169	We never allowed those who lay hands on these resources, we didn't give bonuses, we didn't tolerate them.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0128par0171	To those who are not of you!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0172	Of course, there are also losers in this twelve-year-old power, and I'm going to try to explain them to you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0129par0173	Who made the appointment from Pennsylvania?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0174	Who are the losers of the AK PARTY? Losers of the AK PARTY's power are the focus that has violent interest revenues before the AK PARTY's power...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0129par0175	The interest lobby, interest lobby! Porn lobby!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0176	...they're the evil centers that are distilled from terror. Feeding on terror, blood, and tears, these evil centers are the losers of the AK PARTI era.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0129par0177	What an interest lobby, the useless son lobby!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0130par0178	You don't understand the budget, Veli Agha, listen to me!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0179	The single capital groups are the groups of interests that are used to getting the country's resources drawn back to them, transferred to them, embezzled from them. The losers of the EC PARTI era.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0131par0180	Who put the shoe boxes in there?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0181	Media groups that led society, politics before 2002, with headlines, disenformatic news are the losers of the AK PARTI authorities. Those who are troubled by our emphasis on our civilization, our history, our culture, our history, this land we live in, the power we take from Asia Minor, the power we produce from Thrace, are the losers of the AK PARTI power.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0132par0182	No corruption in our history, no theft, don't confuse our history! There's no shoebox in our history, don't do this!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0183	In many parts of the world's geography, it is those who are uncomfortable with our being victims, the hope of the oppressed people, the hope of the oppressed people, the saying of the Palestinian, the saying of the century, the people of the AK PARTI. And there's another loser in this era, and this is very important: the love of taking over the state, which can't be organized the way the government wants it to be.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0133par0184	They told you wrong, it's wrong!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0185	...the gangs that can't make it happen are the losers of the AK PARTY power. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] His own personal interests, his own family, his own equity group.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0134par0188	Oh, they'll be offended, don't say that! The AKP will be taken, don't say that!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0135par0189	Veli, listen, listen, listen and learn. You don't understand any of this!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0190	...who see the interests of their own oligarch above the interests of the nation and who see the interests of their own community, of their own community, of their own community above the interests of the nation.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0134par0191	God will help you. Hard work, hard work, God help you!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0192	...from December 17th and the time before that, they were involved in a collaboration. We've seen this cooperation on February 7th, we've seen this cooperation in travel events, ODTU events...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0134par0193	He's got a lot on his plate, man. It's hard.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0194	...and we've seen it last in concrete and cognitive, clear cases of December 17th. We see that those who can't stop the power of the EC PARTY through democratic means and the AK PARTI is intended to bring down the government, the legitimate government elected by the nation, through the coup of judgment and authority of those who have given up hope of politics, therefore from the nation.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0136par0196	With shoe boxes?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0137par0197	Did he tell you to take off your clothes?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0198	We see that the Losers' Club is using the government-made mob as a hit man. By focusing on these shooters, we must never, ever lose sight of the will behind these shooters, the power centers, the power centers. The partners of this dirty alliance have turned their eyes on Turkey for their own benefit, and their eyes are covered in blood. The partners of this dirty alliance know no legal, moral, human boundaries.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0138par0200	The contractors say I paid a million dollars.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0201	The final play of this alliance has recently been a viciously edited, completely unrealistic audio recording. It is clear that the recording of this conversation between our Prime Minister and his son was a cheap and simple montage that could be understood even in the first hearing. This conversation record is full of contradictions within itself. The date of the talks, the hours of the talks, was clearly not consistent with our Prime Minister's work schedule at that time, which was rationally proven by the data. Obviously, this tape was produced in a studio somewhere, behind a desk, in order to change the agenda.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0139par0203	It's not, it's not. Come on, let's investigate. If you're sincere, let's set up an investigation commission.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0204	For example, the first time -- please listen here, I'm saying something very rational, very real -- our Prime Minister's opening statement at the Shebiarus ceremony. Another speech coincides with the hall speech, which has been broadcast live to the public by many televisions.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0139par0205	He speaks at 8 a.m., and there is no Shebiarus at 8 a.m.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0206	Almost all of our Prime Minister's speeches in this montage are incisions and words.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0140par0207	Forget Shebiarus, give the morning speech, 08.02!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0126par0208	This is not a conversation where a few sentences are put together in a row.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0141par0209	What are you trying to camouflage?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0140par0210	The media will give him a live one right away.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0142par0211	Veli, learn, learn, listen, learn.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0212	And that makes it very clear that this conversation was created by the addition of audio parts and that some of the audio parts were involved in this conversation because it was very unprofessional.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0140par0213	It's a good thing they were sober and didn't give him a live one; 8:02 a.m.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0214	The recording was produced by combining our Prime Minister's speeches on different dates. That's the opinion of the experts on the subject.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0144par0215	Where did you get this report? Is there an expert opinion? Send us this report.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0216	In fact, there's no need to be an expert, it's the first impression of almost everyone listening to these recordings. This tape conspiracy didn't hold, and it's never gonna hold again.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0145par0217	It's like the Supreme Court. Someone went to the Constitutional Court before the law was issued! They jumped right into it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0218	This theatre, which has been exhibited to bring down the wiretap scandal, has resulted in a fiasco. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have not only been targeted by the AK PARTI, but by the AK PARTY government, the Republic of Turkey's state, the entire political institution. There is a very important task, a very important task for the political institution. However, we see that some politicians, some political groups, have fallen into this trap.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0146par0220	It's hard, it's hard! It's the hardest job in the world: corruption, theft. It's hard, it's hard, it's hard, it's not easy, it's hard!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0221	We're aware that your love of the intermediary is getting stronger. I wonder if there's going to be a caramba, chaos, chaos, and we're going to get a seat? You're in the position of expressing that the government has lost its legitimacy over these statements. Now, that's your democratism, that's your patriotism.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0147par0222	May God set things right!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0223	In the next 16 months, we're going to put three crates in front of our nation.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0148par0224	May Allah set things right, and may Allah set things right.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0225	Let's share our leverage in the chest.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0149par0226	Go, go, Veli, go!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0227	If we have a conflict, if we have a problem, let's solve our problems in the arbitration of our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The very important question is: Will Turkey manage the insufferable, uncontrollable, closed, dark, hierarchical custody centers, or will it be led by the politicians elected by the nation? No doubt politicians should rule.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0150par0230	Cry all the time, cry all the time!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0151par0231	You're the ones crying, are we? You're crying.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0232	We want to rule Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we've never shared with any capital group, any media group, any gang, any organization, and we're saying that we're not going to share it anymore.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0152par0236	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0143par0237	He points out once again that we will not allow any noise, which means that we will vote against the Council's motion to investigate.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0153par0239	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0152par0240	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0154par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0152par0242	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0155par0243	You jumped before it was over! How hard did you have to do that?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0156par0244	The chest, we thought it was his thing! The chest will come, the troubles will end!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0245	Sir, the speaker in his speech has accused the Republican People's Party Group of wanting to create chaos and considering taking a seat in the chaos that will be created. Due to this claim against the truth, sir, I'd like to speak according to Article 69.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0158par0246	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0159par0248	It's not against the truth, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0251	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm saying that we, the Prime Minister, have been accused of having had an affair with his son, I have to speak like this legally.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0160par0252	Then why did you publish it in the group?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0161par0253	Why did you publish it?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0254	If you don't disrespect me...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0160par0255	It's got nothing to do with disrespect.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0256	Listen to me.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0160par0258	It's the most disrespectful thing to publish it, the most disrespectful of all, that you publish it!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0259	Don't be disrespectful, don't be disrespectful!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0162par0261	There are other tapes, put them on the air!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0163par0262	Carry on, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0263	Now...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0164par0264	If you had told the president, you would have said, "These are allegations. Let's not publish them."
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0265	You guys can talk all you want. Now, up here...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0164par0267	You can't! You can't! You're talking about the Dictator...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0268	...the speakers will say that the conversation between the Prime Minister and his son was naturally referred to by Mr. Prime Minister as.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0165par0269	Isn't that right, montage?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0270	But when you're trying to defend the Prime Minister, you learn a little, you learn a little. On December 17th, Prime Minister Shebiarus was at the ceremony. Thus, it is impossible for the Prime Minister of Shebiarus to give this speech.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0166par0271	He didn't say December 17th about that alleged montage... you're twisting it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0272	Now, if the speaker had access to the Internet, if he had access to the prime minister's website, he would have seen what time the prime minister's speech was at Shebiarus.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0167par0273	At 13.48.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0274	Yes, very good, very good. When does the Prime Minister call his son in the morning? Eight o'clock in the morning. When's the second call? It's 11:00. The Prime Minister has not yet gone to Shebiarus in Ankara. When does he make the third speech? At night, not at Shebiarus time. Look, by defending the Prime Minister, you've confirmed that the Prime Minister is having these conversations.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0168par0277	There's no confirmation. What a twist! Bravo!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0278	You're not telling the truth. You were just talking about falling into a pit, and you fell into that pit you were talking about.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0168par0280	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0157par0281	The Prime Minister is already in that hole, trying to get out. I'd like it to come out, but I don't see it coming out. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0168par0284	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0169par0285	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0170par0286	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0169par0287	Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0170par0288	He said I was lying and misinformation about my speech...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0171par0289	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0170par0290	It's about my character. I want to speak according to Article 69 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0172par0291	I didn't say anything about the preacher, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0173par0292	Mr. President, nothing has been discussed.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0174par0293	There's no teasing.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0173par0294	I swear by God, you rule without justice.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0175par0295	Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0176par0297	Congressmans, I'm guessing that our outgoing friend, Erdogan Bayraktar, read this as if he had read the grounds for protecting the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0177par0298	What are you doing? They're putting unemployment in your hands! They're giving it to you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0176par0299	There's nothing else you can do as a deputy. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Were you not involved with this organization, which you call this parallel state? While these tapes were useful to you yesterday, there was no problem at the Gaziantep rally when the Prime Minister told us about them. At that time, you were trading services with the congregation. Now, you resent the fact that the congregation has uncovered these irregularities, these corruptions, these thefts on allegedly. Why are you getting angry? You gave him what he wanted. Didn't you say, Mr. Hodja, that the land in Turkey is waiting for you, that Turkey longs for you?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0178par0302	We're still waiting.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0179par0303	We're still waiting. We're still waiting.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0176par0304	Is that congregation you're talking about now an organization? Don't contradict yourself. This is about theft, this is about corruption...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0180par0305	What were you saying about them yesterday?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0176par0306	You'll pay for this when they come to the 30th of March. The Prime Minister and Bilal Erdogan are also concerned about the allegations... give your votes to this research commission, let's set up this research commission... and let's see the facts together. If you'd like, let's also set up a research commission on the parallel state, the task of getting you out of this mess you're in.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0181par0307	Come on, who's in the shit!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0176par0308	...let this opposition take over and fulfill it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0182par0311	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0183par0312	In turn, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. Just a minute, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0182par0314	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I guess I don't have to. He said I was handed a text. This is an open taunt, and I want to answer it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0183par0315	Wait a minute, Mr. Günal, I haven't seen Mr. Hawk. May I have your attention, Mr. Günal?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0184par0317	Mr. Mehmet, it's not about you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0185par0318	I mean, it's good, Mr. President, but I don't understand if the burning of the text is a taunt, but I'm listening to him.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0184par0319	Don't tease, don't tease...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0186par0320	Now, I didn't quite hear what you said, Mr. Günal, so I'm sorry about that. I don't understand what you're saying, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0322	Mr. President said I was handed a text and I read it here. This is clearly a taunt, and I want word according to Article 69.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0186par0323	Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0325	Thank you. For twelve years, we have always been the voice of our nation on this stand, always following the interests of our nation. Turn around, look at your own political past, your history.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0188par0328	First, your own interests...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0329	However you ran after those who carried out the 1960 coup, however you did the 1960 coup with deformation, lying, doodling...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0188par0331	And in the 1960 coup...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0189par0332	Ask the paper tiger, paper tiger!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0333	...the same as today...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0189par0334	Ask the paper tigers in you!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0335	...the fact that you can't bend our wrist...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0189par0336	Ask the paper tigers in you!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0190par0337	Tell me about the cash registers!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0338	...you come here and insult us and our nation in its weakness.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0190par0339	Tell me about the cash registers!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0340	We are protectors, protectors of the interests of our nation.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0191par0342	Please, listen quietly.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0190par0343	Tell me the money from the bath sacks, leave the other thing!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0344	Honourable lawmakers, in this state, this parasitic, this subcontractor is our greatest responsibility to decrypt, neutralize, dispossess, in public, in front of the state, in front of the law, in front of history.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0192par0345	What does the congregation have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0346	And we will fulfill that responsibility. We will see together in the coming days how many dark events in the very near past have been illuminated. Let's all take care of the political institution...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0193par0347	Let's set up an investigation commission and investigate!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0187par0348	I say we protect the interests of this country, thank you, respect.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0194par0350	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0195par0355	Mr. President, they even stole the Dombra.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0196par0356	Shall I pass, Mr. President? Anything else?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0194par0357	Here you go, sir. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0196par0359	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're talking about something important, but it's his job, and we need to decide what the job is, rather than some sort of cross-referencing, defense, explanation mode. The opening of a research motion is not about accepting what is directly considered; on the contrary, if there is no problem with it, it will be investigated -- it has been done dozens of times before -- it will be filed, once we all have to agree on it. What's said here is that a group of proposals have arrived, and this matter is important, so let's look into it. Now, of course, what happened to this side on December 17th is not something that any of us will accept or accept easily, but it is the same for you. I'm going to ask you, I'm going to ask you technical things, and I'm not going to go in there -- because everyone's listening -- and I'm going to ask the points that I don't understand, and instead of picking on my friends, if they know, if they know, I'd be happy to give me information -- here or in private -- I'd like to ask some of our valued ministers last night. In fact, there was something I was going to read to you in the last place, but I'm going to read a passage to you from the beginning, and then I'm going to tell you who said it, not my word, but for the record, that history says that by turning December 17, 2013 into a government of parallel states, or that Tayip Erdoğan will record all kinds of institutions and individuals as the date to prevent the coup against him, rather than as a civil coup by Tayip Erdoğan. Who's singing? Genghis Çandar, who you now fought with, says, like the congregation you fought with, called the parallel state. Now, the bottom line is, we're building a lot of laws here as hardware for counter defense and assault weapons. Dear friends, for him, Mr. Şahin said he was in Konya. I immediately clicked, and looked; on December 17th, the Prime Minister was on the air, and I looked at Channel 24 and TGRT. Both of them start at 13.48; 13.48, noon. Now, we can't talk about it, we can't talk about it, we can't talk about it, we can't talk about its contents. It is also spoken of by telephone and also by Ankara. ▪ The content of this is not true; there has never been such talk. The Prime Minister didn't speak to his son that day, nor did he speak to anyone else. So there's no explanation for the fact that Konya was here, there's no reason to argue with her. I mean, there's technology, and we can search from the other side of the world. Look, now I'm going to ask you a technical question, which is why I'm saying we should look at the technique. When we open it, all our friends are experts! ▪ What is this montage? I asked him last night, I didn't get an answer from Mr. Secretary, and they were responding to everything. The TV was off, so you couldn't see it from here because you didn't have any part of it. What's editing? It says: "Separate parts, recordings, and images to fit into the work that will be used, " or "assembly" or "assembly" or "struct" or "structure industry." I see, it's in the cinema, it's in the picture, it's in the image, but I've never heard of editing on the set, so editing is something else. You will say, brother, that the content of this is false, false, slander.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0197par0365	It's a lie, it's a mistake!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0196par0366	This is a montage. It could happen. He could've cut off some of the conversation, put in some of it, whatever he wanted, something else. I'm just saying, technically, I'm just saying what we need to discuss. Second, we've been talking since yesterday. What we're saying here is that there's a corruption and bribery operation. Now, Mr. Prime Minister... when I said I'd ask you about the definition, mine don't speak the technical, political part, everyone talks. Mr. Prime Minister, who made the definition of corruption: I understand when I say corruption: Is the state's vault being robbed, isn't it being robbed? I mean, if we don't leave the vault of the state and make it easier for the private sector, it's not corruption if we do things the easy way. Well, the one you're using... if you're not the Prime Minister, if you're not the Minister, do you have a chance to make things easier for yourself? Do you get paid when you make it easier for the person you make it easier? So let's call it nonviolent. Let's not call it indiscriminate. Isn't that corruption when it's irregular?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0198par0369	Involuntary gain.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0196par0370	Even if you do something that you shouldn't, is it corruption, or is it supposed to be money? You did it for your brother, it's not possible, it's not legally possible; isn't it corruption? The third question is, all of our friends have been talking since yesterday, technical definition, cryptophones, and today TÜBITAK has made a statement. What's a cryptophone? When the prime minister explained it yesterday, you were there, I think, he said, they even tapped our kryptonian phones. These are so low. E, now, I'm looking at it, then, Mr. Prime Minister -- I'm asking you, the people who know -- did they talk to them on cryptophones, you know -- did they listen to them -- who says that these montages were taken from the wiretaps, and they're angry about that? Otherwise, as explained earlier, I did not intervene in the report on insects. Well, my kryptonian phones were bugged. Mr. Minister's statement is here this morning, Mr. Light has made a statement: investigation into five people, these have been taken, these have been made... when? I gave him an order earlier, but he says it's a sequel. Now, when you look the other way, they listened to my cryptophones. Does that mean that listening is partly correct? Look, I'm not discussing the content, I'm still talking technical. If you're taking the people in TÜBİTAK, the person in charge of MAM, that means that they gave us a trusted phone, and we were talking about it, and it's not reliable. No, I'm asking you right now, tell me what I understand here, why is it that a few people in TÜBITAK are being deposed today, what is this cryptophone business, how many are given to everyone, how many have they given to the Prime Minister, how many have they given to his son, and I'm looking there. Again, technically, courts examine its content, whether it is edited, technical issues, expert, just as they had studied it, as you remember, it had been released in the CD, and TÜBITAK had a report, but the court didn't consider it; it also examined the expert when future uploads were made to future programs. So, there's an expert opinion process here in the courts. I'm gonna have to go check these out. And it's not right to take it up front. Look, I still don't say the contents, that's one thing; it'll go to court, our friends, the technical board will decide. Now, we're looking at the work that's been done here, and there are headlines about listening on the same day. So what state are you really running, the ministers of which government, which government's Prime Minister? This has been happening all this time, and if you really didn't know, you need to get out of here right now. Well, he knows, but if you're partners, you're accomplices. On the one hand, it's really interesting to look at them now and go behind his back. So you're saying it's a parallel state. The separatist group just said the parallel organization, Mr. Şahin. E, the real parallel state is built in the southeast, and they're holding back. We've declared our autonomy. They call it autonomy. Why don't you fight him, and you've been negotiating for how many years? Now, there's a parallel state out there, so why don't you fight it? With all his cannons, with his rifle, you brought up the MIT Law, the HSYK, the Internet law. So, please, one parallel state at a time, one interest lobby, don't look for a scapegoat. If there's a problem, come, if we have to solve it together, if we're going to set up a research commission, if we're going to make any arrangements. There's nothing wrong with that. You say the Faiz lobby, then it leaves, Mr. Prime Minister charges again. We're looking this way, the president of the Central Bank raises 4-5 points. So I'm asking, naturally, is the interest lobby in or out? You're telling the banks, how many years have banks been the most profitable? Eight of the top 10 tax-paying agencies are banks. So, who do you want to... And then he says, "Don't bet on these, they're causing us trouble, put us in public banks." Good morning, Mr. Prime Minister! Public banks are inside those first eight banks. Now, if you don't tell them the truth, you can't just stand up here and argue with each other. If there's a problem, it's you. If the parallel state was formed there, then you're its owner, if he's doing the listening... How do you know? Now, like in TUBITAK... We have authorized MIT, and MIT is watching everything. Are you sure they're not in the MIT? I wonder if they haven't settled in or if they've got people there. If he leaves there tomorrow, will you shut down the entire MIT (MIT) and remove them as well? So, please, let's go over these corruptions, and we're not being forward, but in order to explain these things, a commission has to be set up and examined, and it says, "We're in your favor, I'm in your favor."
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0199par0381	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Against him, İstanbul MP Metin Ashünk. Here you go, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0385	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with a hearty greeting. There will be no power over the opposition from the tapes in this country that will be shaped through the political chest and through the nation, so don't bother. The political insight and political conquest of this nation are strong enough to detect operations on this country and to disrupt the polls. This nation is not a flock of sheep, it's a mindset. It's the mental centre of Turkey that's rising, it's the people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Since December 17th, you've been trying to gather power over the tapes you've suffered from the worst victims in the past. Since December 17th...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0201par0389	Which side are you pointing at, Mr. Ash? Show me exactly where you're pointing!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0390	...you're trying to succeed in a coup attempt over the tapes on December 17th of which you failed to make it to power. This doesn't suit you! As far as I'm concerned, the Republican People's Party will express itself as the founding mind of the state. Friends, the government is turning one of the most important curves in its history. Someone wants to surrender this country to a global mind; they tried it on the street yesterday, they're trying it on tape today. Don't you understand this game?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0202par0392	The global power has made you powerful.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0393	Aren't you going to stand firm behind Parliament's will to break this plot? They want to take over the government.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0203par0395	Who's that, who wants to buy it?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0396	They want to take over this nation's government, which they have established in 1071, and you are part of it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0203par0397	Who wants to buy it? Friends of yours?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0204par0398	They're the ones who brought you here.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0399	Sir, the parallel organization was easy with you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0203par0400	Friends of yours?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0205par0401	Not with us, but with you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0402	Well, wouldn't you stand behind the March 12 coup if the junta men had succeeded? Didn't you stand behind May 27th? Didn't you go arm in arm with the 28th of February generals? (CHP rows) And now you're nothing but a toy of those who can't stand the thought of Turkey, who can't stand the idea of Turkey building a carrier, who can't bear the idea of Turkey putting humanity at the center of global relations, who can't accept Turkey as they design the world from a certain center.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0203par0404	I know who you're talking to. You're saying that to Hakan, thank God, I get it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0405	I feel sorry for you. I feel sorry for you. Come, if you want to deal with us...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0203par0406	Thank God Hakan will tell you that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0407	Look, if you want to deal with us, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Let me remind you of your history.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0206par0409	Don't remind me of history, come to the day, come to the day. You're still talking about history!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0410	I remind you of the looters of the Movement Army when they invaded Istanbul. What you and Kemal Dervis did today, arm in arm...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0207par0411	Thanks to Kemal Dervis, we survived.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0412	...in the 2001 crisis, I remind you to slave Turkey at the door of the IMF officers. I remind you that the IMF, which you have handed over to Turkey since 1947, is to withdraw the sweat of this nation's trillions of dollars. I remind you how you stole the values of the people in your history. I remind you of your historical enmity, your Ottoman hostility, your hatred of the young Ottomans.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0208par0413	We'll remind you of your Turkish hostility, your Turkish hostility.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0414	Don't you dare deal with us on corruption.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0209par0415	It's not our place, it's not ours!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0210par0416	Pay up, check up! Let him answer, Recep, the bill!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0417	And the tape that was released about our Prime Minister, I'm telling you clearly, is a fake and incompetent tape, a tape that's clearly a fake.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0210par0419	The bill, the bill...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0211par0420	That's not what the Prime Minister says, they're fooling you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0421	You haven't insulted the president of this state in two days. You forget you're part of the big game. I regret to inform you that this nation is capable of disrupting these games, but I regret to inform the main opposition party of its political wisdom... that unfortunately, the main opposition party's political mind is unable to detect all the doors of the society's bottom wave. You fell behind the tape. Guys, it's gonna blow up in your hands, and it's gonna explode.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0212par0423	It blew up!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0213par0424	Don't worry about it! Don't worry about it!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0425	Look, I'm telling you, the sound specialists took the tape, technically examined it, and on top of it...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0214par0426	When? 24 hours.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0427	The point is, it's a fake tape.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0215par0428	Where's the money, the money!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0429	I advise you: Don't try to gather any power over the tape, nor try to gather a power by standing behind the coup attempt on December 17th.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0216par0430	Metin, tell me about their company's relationship with Reza Sarraf.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0431	If, today, the point of this country's arrival in ten years hadn't come back on a global scale, you'd be happy. I know you'd be happy if the dollar was $3,000, because you're going to come back, and you're going to try to raise power over the $3,000 dollar. Whereas politics is done with the nation, politics is not made from the street.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0217par0432	You're the one who did it; you're the one who picked up the crisis, you're the one who made crisis politics.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0218par0433	Politics isn't stealing government money.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0434	You're turning the street on. You remind me of Ukraine. You'll stay under it, under it! Your Ukrainian dreams will go to waste, your Ukrainian dreams will go to waste.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0219par0435	We don't dream, we see the truth.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0436	You know, the ones in the PRRAVDA, the ones that the central media used to associate with Ukraine all the time.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0220par0437	You'll run, you'll run...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0438	You're wasting your time, hungry chicken in a millet barn, and you're wasting your time. If you're going to deal with us...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0220par0439	Abbas is a passenger!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0440	Look, don't try to threaten us out of here. We're calling it a challenge! There's the trunk! March 30th! You'll come to the trunk...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0220par0441	You'll see on March 30th, you'll see!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0442	Either we bow before God or in the ark before the will of the people.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0221par0443	Let's be honest.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0444	I'm sorry to say, you're hoping for power from the parallel organization. (CHP rows) Didn't your deputy, just three years ago, two years ago, suffer such severe trauma? Didn't your friends live? Now, what needs to be done...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0222par0445	Tell me about your contact with Reza Sarraf.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0446	If you're a political move that prioritizes the state...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0222par0447	Who is Reza Sarraf? Tell me, tell me.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0448	...you would stand by the politics of this operation in which this nation has formed -- if you claim to defend the state's back -- against the gangs -- whether it's with or against us yesterday -- in order to give Turkey to the global financial oligarchs who want to destroy the national state and destroy the alliance of the Turks and Kurds in this land. But you don't have that insight, and you don't have that fear, I'm sorry to say.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0223par0449	You can complain about something else tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0222par0450	Stop with the stories.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0451	For him, respected lawmakers, thank God, this operation and this coup attempt have been avoided. This nation has never stood behind the corruption of individuals. Once again, stop accusing and insulting us from this stand.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0224par0453	Where's the money?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0454	Remember, all members of the EC PARTY Group, the President and the Prime Minister, stop blaming these public-loving staffs, who are determined to become this country's rising Turkey with their entire organization.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0225par0455	Are you going to protect the thieves or the thieves? Why don't you tell the council why the fezlekes aren't coming?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0456	Leave your sense of reckoning with us in that sense.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0225par0457	We've filed a motion to open a parliamentary investigation, so let's go.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0200par0458	If you're going to settle your score with us, give up your habit of accusing us on this bench every once in a while. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0226par0461	Thank you, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0462	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0226par0463	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0464	Mr. President, the speaker has made a direct assessment of the Republican People's Party Group. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0226par0465	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0469	Dear lawmakers, Turkey woke up on December 17th with an operation of bribery and corruption, and Turkey's agenda has changed since then. Four ministers in the government had to resign. One of the ministers who resigned, I will not resign, but the Prime Minister should resign. He made a statement, because all I did was according to the Prime Minister's orders.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0228par0470	He said it was Hukuki.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0471	He said it was on the Prime Minister's orders. You take care of them...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0229par0472	Why don't you tell me about your own tape?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0228par0473	What else did he say?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0474	No, on the Prime Minister's orders, I did so using the powers vested in me by law.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0229par0475	Tell me about your own tape, your own tape.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0476	The minister means: "For what did the Prime Minister give this instruction, for whom did he give it; who went to him to give it to me, and I do not know what happened between him and the Prime Minister."
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0230par0477	He didn't say "Talikat," he said "I agree."
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0478	Yeah, turn it on, read it. If you want to defend your prime minister, read his statements, the minister's statements. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, that's what this is about. Look, we separate the Justice and Development Party Group from those who are involved in these allegations of corruption in the government. We're taking the rest of the government's members away from those corrupt ministers again. Believe me, if the Republican People's Party were in power, if their ministers were involved in something like this, we would expel those ministers from our party and bring them to justice.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0231par0481	What did you do with Sarıgül, Sarıgül?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0482	My advice to the Justice and Development Party Group is...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0231par0483	Why did you take Saricul?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0484	No one wants Turkey to be Ukraine, but one of you is on the road to becoming Marcos, Marcos.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0231par0486	Yeah, quit exporting. Why did you take Saricul? Stop what you're doing, look what you're doing!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0232par0487	Please, listen quietly.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0488	Don't support the Marcos. I'm afraid you won't be able to go out one day.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0233par0490	Tell me about your own tape! You had a tape, tell me about it!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0234par0491	Faruk Bey, Faruk Bey...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0227par0492	He's being rude to me.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit05spe0235par0493	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the Republican People's Party proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0235par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and then I'll put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 26/02/2014 Wednesday (now) meeting, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 562th Bill of Law, which is included in "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions," is to be taken into the third place, and the order of other tasks is to be considered according to this. Besides weekdays, February 28, March 2, and March 3, 2014 Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 14 o'clock. Meeting at 00 p.m. to discuss business in these mergers on the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; On Wednesday (February 26, 2014) to the completion of the talks of Bill 562 in the merger; Until the meeting of Thursday (February 27, 2014), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 455, was completed; Until the meeting of Friday (February 28, 2014) of the 377th legislature of the Legislature, until the completion of the talks; Until Saturday (March 1st 2014) the meeting of the 538th legislature was completed; Until Sunday's March 2, 2014, when the talks were completed until Bill 471; Until Monday (March 3rd 2014) the meeting of the talks of the operations leading up to Bill 462 in the unification of Monday's merger; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the day's schedule is incomplete, until the day's schedule is complete; In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Charter of 562 rows, it is considered the basic law and its sections in the accompanying form, It's recommended. On the other hand, İstanbul MP Bulent Turan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0026	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party in favor of our proposed meeting of the AK PARTY. First of all, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we have experienced a process in which you have all been witnesses since morning, even since yesterday, when the House of Assembly has stretched out, at times we understand each other better, from time to time, from the top curtain, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, with more reasonable conversations, especially after 17 December operations, and from time to time, dedicated to Mr. Prime Minister, and even more specifically, to a certain tape released in the press yesterday, where the defence has been taken, and even the execution has begun. If only the law could be equal to everyone, if only everyone could be more reasonable about people who don't have their own opinion, if only we could be more principled.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0237par0028	You just figured that out? In Ergenekon, in the sledgehammer, you called us fuckers.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0029	I'll never be nervous, my dear Regent, I'll never be nervous. You know, the junkman yells, the judge shuts up. I'll talk calmly. We have a word, we have something to talk about. Let me talk to him.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0237par0031	You were in Ergenekon, talking on TV about the parallel structure.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0032	Look, you guys have been talking all morning, so let me talk. Here we are again, we'll talk.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0237par0033	What happened?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0034	Dear friends, what I'm sorry to hear is that you've asked me to make such an entrance -- from December 17th to today -- has now become clear to everyone how a structure in Turkey understood 75 million, a structure that was donated in Turkey, a structure that claimed to do business in spite of the state, can lead parties and shape politics. My heart would wish that 90 years ago, some of the oldest CHP's parties in this country would come out and conspire against the state. AK PARTY was founded yesterday, maybe not tomorrow, but Turkey was there yesterday, and it will be tomorrow. This operation is an accusation against the president of a state, the Prime Minister of a state, rather than being Recep Tayyip Erdogana, a policy. It is incumbent upon us to stand against it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0238par0036	How come you haven't seen it in 11 years and you want us to see it in a month?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0239par0037	It's not like that, it's not like that. Clear the way for judgment, we'll set up an investigation commission.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0038	That would improve the quality of politics, and that would exalt you. But unfortunately, just yesterday, when your president was complaining about fake tapes a few years ago, complaining about editing, without a court order about the tape that came up in the middle of the night, without any reviews...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0239par0039	You don't get a court order. You're dismissing judges, prosecutors.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0040	...that tape has been reviewed by you, that you have created a painting that the court has acknowledged correctly, that you have begun the execution, that you have humiliated the People's Assembly. Look, you're the strongest party in stability, vote stability. Why don't people say, despite all the trouble -- in the nail -- we're behind you on this. Look, yesterday you were against the tape from these podiums. You were the victim of the tape, you were the one who was embarrassed.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0240par0043	Then you were playing with your hand out.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0044	But you're going up here today, as victims of the tape, no, that's wrong. When you're supposed to say...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0240par0045	Did you ever say that? Three years, you say? Did you say when the tape came out?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0046	...you're with the mob, so-called parishioners. Our people are ephemeral and possessors of the law, and they see it. So I'll tell you again: the AK PARTY has been successful for 12 years, not only because of the AK PARTY's success, but if only we could be more principled. Look, accept it or not, as a lawyer, as a lawyer, as your president was publishing the tape at the group meeting yesterday, I was ashamed as a child of this country. It was published at night, and in the morning, they were tried as if it were true. Friends, what would you say if there was a candidate in Congress tomorrow in front of your President-General who would present some tapes with your president?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0241par0049	Our party isn't part of that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0050	On top of that, if your former president were to run again, would your current president continue to publish tapes of your former president? What kind of political morality is that? TCK 134 said this, and 136 said that it was punishment; it's none of my business; it's the work of prosecutors.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0242par0051	My president isn't talking about the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0052	Once again, publishing is a crime, two to five years in the TCK context. But that's not the point. Whether it's a crime or not, that's what politics is all about.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0242par0053	Talk to me about the motion, Bulent.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0243par0054	Are you not a partner to Türgev, to Türgev, to Türgev? Aren't you in charge of TURKEV?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0055	Besides, even if Kamer Young shouts, some of your merciful, law-abiding fellow lawmakers have said: "The picture yesterday is wrong." It doesn't suit a 90-year-old party. You said that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0242par0056	Talk about the motion, the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0057	Look, one thing needs to be determined: Ankara is that you have nominated someone who insulted you, blasphemed, insulted your symbol names until yesterday.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0242par0058	None of your business!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0059	Yesterday in Istanbul, you nominated a man you claimed to have thrown out for theft and posed with folders. There's bound to be a reckoning between you and him. But I'm also saying that this reckoning will not end with this, that after this time, one of the two works of Ataturk is CHP. The 90-year-old CHP's MPs, who are more reasonable, more deserving, will surely ask them for the account of yesterday's evil painting, the illegal painting. People were ashamed of those tapes.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0244par0060	Follow the Haramzades' website by evening. You'll learn new things from Twitter, you'll be embarrassed.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0061	Look, I'll tell you again, the tape for 7,000 people has been released; your headquarters has been bugged, you haven't gathered; tapes of your own friends have been released, you haven't collected, but you've held an extraordinary meeting because of a tape that's been edited in all sorts of different ways.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0245par0062	Just talk about the money.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0244par0063	Let's start a congressional investigation, see if it's a fake or if it's real. You can't talk like that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0064	But I say again: Our people have wisdom, and he also knows Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, and he knows Kemal Kilicdaroğlu.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0246par0065	Don't worry, don't worry.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0066	Dear friends, once again, I say that the People's Republican Party will be the first to lose this fight. We will see who this loser is in a very short time, a month later in the elections.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0247par0067	Abbas is a passenger, he leaves in a month.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0248par0068	Money, money... tell me where the money is.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0069	Our people don't respect fake tapes, they don't. TRT has denied, the experts have denied, the Ministry has denied, the Prime Minister has denied, if you say it's the truth, if it's the truth, the court will ask for it, and I'll tell you again. But, my dear friends, you won't be the ones to decide whether it's true or not.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0247par0070	Who's gonna ask? Will you send it to the Supreme Court? Tell me if you're going to be a public defender or a thief. If it's true, will you send this man to the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0071	Mr. Ali, if anyone has anything to say, say it or shut up, says the Lord Abubekir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0249par0072	Please, don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0247par0073	If it's true, tell me if you'll lift a finger for the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0074	If you say something, we'll listen, but I always say it's not going to be a scream, dear friends.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0247par0075	I'm asking you something, I'm asking you something.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0076	The less you talk, the more you think, the more you scream, the less you think. You'll be calm, you'll think, you'll talk; the parameters of this country are not what they used to be.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0247par0077	I'm asking you, are you going to be a public defender or a representative of thieves? If it comes true, will you send it to the Supreme Court? Tell me that, this isn't a storytelling place!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0078	There's no picture in favor of this country, from the fact that the former guardians -- you and the new guardians -- you know who they are -- they're getting married, they're getting together. I say again, argue with the merciful counsel among you, and I say we fight this painting together against these coupgers.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0247par0079	Let's fight, let's fight thieves.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0080	Recep Erdogan exists today, not tomorrow, but I say again: I think the operation against the Prime Minister of this country, the operation against the government in this country, would be the closest opposition party to power, my friends, and I'm not saying anything bad.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0247par0081	I'm interested in thieves.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0082	Look, I'll tell you again, three years ago, they're fake. You're gonna say, "It could be montage." You're gonna say, "You're not going to bring up listening to 7,000 tapes, you're not going to bring up the trial of the CHP headquarters, you're going to bring up the claim that they're going to listen, you're going to say everything from a tape, you're going to say everything on the basis of what you're supposed to do. Look, I've got a lot of documents, and I've got a lot of documents that show that tape was edited. It's all there is to what scene he's been in, who's voice has changed, but, friends, that's not the point. Even if it's true, even if it's a lie, I don't think that's the attitude of this country's main opposition party, in front of the gangsters, in front of the community, in front of the people who are blackmailing this country politically.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0247par0084	Have fear of God, the congregation until yesterday...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0085	My dear friends, look, we are witnesses of history, we know what happened. See, they call it $4 million in the embezzlement of Poland. You know what that is. They call it four million in the embezzlement of the Poletkan. It all turned out to be lies. 12 planes full of gold. They say it's about Menderes, 12 planes full of gold. This claim is no different than your tape. If you listen to that tape, it'll show how funny it is. Mr. Prime Minister says: "Son, we're resting." He says, "What happened to that money from behind?" Crows laugh at it, crows laugh at it! You're still saying that. Read it like a man, hear it again, you'll be embarrassed. Dear friends, no matter what you do, there are many examples of this. This is how much money was found in Menderes' safe. Let them go. The Menderes period is over, the coup d'état is over, and the tapemen's era will be over. The codes of this country are not the old codes, but the parameters of this country are not the old parameters. Wake up for the new Turkey, rise and shine, catch this nation's march.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0250par0087	What was the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0088	We, dear friends, are not here with the tape, we're not going with the tape. We didn't like our president with the tape, we're not gonna hate him with the tape.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0251par0089	You've come with the congregation, are you going with the congregation?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0236par0090	We know what you've done to this country, we know how you walk with the dignity of this nation, we know your sensitivity to orphans. We're behind him whether you crack or explode. The people brought it, people, and we promised to walk with our people until they said, "That's enough." I salute you all. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0252par0094	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0253par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0252par0096	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0253par0097	Mr. Speaker has been taunting the Republican People's Party from beginning to end in his speech, sir. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0252par0098	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0253par0099	On behalf of our group, Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0252par0100	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0254par0104	Dear friends, the orator just crossed the line and spoke to our party and to our president. First of all, dear friends, none of this group has the right to say anything about the congregation or the gangs or anything. You have two and a half years of practice, two and a half years old. None of you have any rights, dear friends. Look, we played it yesterday, we'll play it for someone else tomorrow. These are the tapes from the case files. They were all taken by a court order, all legally taken. But what did you do? You deposed the prosecutors, you moved the judges, and you classified the investigation files, which means you're in the way of the public's right to receive information. We're going to do exactly what we're going to do right now, and we're going to keep doing it. We will remove all obstacles to the public's right to information from the front of this bench, all of it. We'll play it there, we'll play it there, we'll play it here, we'll play it in the polls. Then what are you going to do, what are you going to do? (AK PARTY) Come, look, let's provide all the assurances, including the right to a fair trial together, remove the obstacles in front of the press and the media, and let's not show them here. But what are you doing? You make a confidentiality decision to prevent corruption, bribery, immorality, you do the HSYK Act, you do the MIT Act, you do the Internet Law, you make panic attacks, then the main opposition party here will hide corruption, corruption, bribery, not looting. We're gonna show it all over, and we're gonna keep exposing it all over the place. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, look, go to this account and ask your president. Go to this account, ask your friends who can't hide 30m euros. Go try to do that, dear friends. Look, you guys need to get under these tables here, get under the tables. All of Turkey is watching you. Seriously, guys, I'm telling you, you need to get under the tables.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0255par0109	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0256par0110	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0255par0111	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0256par0112	He's just given us a couple of direct-target speeches about our party with the orator tapes.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0257par0113	Never, Mr. President, please be impartial, I never said that. I only spoke to CHP.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0258par0114	He never said, sir. It's about the MHP.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0259par0115	Please be quiet.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0260par0116	I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0259par0117	About the party...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0261par0118	I never did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0260par0119	No, he says your tapes are on the agenda, but we gave them some information about the tapes. About that...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0262par0120	Teacher, you've got it wrong, Hajji, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0261par0121	Dear Hodja, it's not like that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0263par0122	Teacher, don't take it personally. It was nothing.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0262par0123	If he wants to talk, let him talk.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0261par0124	Mr. Hodja, I didn't say that. I said that. I'd say that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0263par0125	There was nothing about you. That's not classy.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0126	Now you'll see it's going to be very elegant.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0265par0127	Okay, here you go, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0129	Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers, those who tell the law to be respected have to respect the law themselves first. About the tapes that were released three years ago, we filed charges against the government, gave you names, credit card numbers, but you didn't do anything.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0266par0130	Who didn't?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0131	Again, at headquarters...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0267par0132	Who's gonna do it, party? No way!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0133	Look, as a government, you had to fall on him.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0268par0134	There's independence of judgment.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0135	You're telling us: Why are you talking about this?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0269par0136	After that, you call it an intervention in the judiciary.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0268par0137	The independence of justice... shall we intervene in the judiciary!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0138	In the same way, we talked about a black van running around our headquarters, saying it's open intelligence and wiretaps, we gave you a license plate number, you weren't interested again. Now, what you're saying is, you've got to stand up to these digits.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0270par0140	Don't go out, don't go out!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0141	Now, what I want to ask you is that you started 11 years ago and came with the congregation, so you're going with the congregation. We're not going on tape. We're not going on tape." You know what you're saying?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0271par0142	We didn't come with the congregation, we came with the people.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0143	...that you came with the congregation, that you were with the congregation, that you had everything in common with the congregation, but today the congregation was full of poo. And after 11 years, you figured it out? You're telling us: understand it in a month. You've only understood it in 11 years. 7,000 people are resting, you say. And where are you, what do you do? Aren't you the government? Do you live in space? Besides, are you afraid that if you go to court, for God's sake, something will come up? If there's parallel construction, you know who it is, why don't you sue?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0272par0144	Calm down, it'll happen. Calm down.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0145	Get 'em out, everybody get rid of 'em, you get rid of 'em, and we'll get rid of 'em.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0273par0146	Patience, brother, patience, patience.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0147	But... No, it's not a question of patience, it's been a while.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0273par0149	Patience, patience.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0264par0150	Do the necessary work on them, put them in the middle, but you can't do that. There's only one way to do that, to eliminate these allegations, was to edit my master. Instead of saying, "Well," it's to go directly to the court and to address it, it's to form a research commission. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0274par0154	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0275par0155	Mr. President, the speaker who was just talking about my name also said "Camer Boy is slandering." I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0276par0156	No, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0277par0157	He never said a word, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0275par0158	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0278par0159	Now, he didn't tell you anything specific, so you talk from there. He said, "That's it."
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0275par0160	No, sir, I listened. Speaking of my name, he also said "Camer Young One is slandering."
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0279par0161	He heard wrong, sir. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0280par0162	There's no such thing. Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0275par0163	No, sir, he mentioned my name. No, sir, no.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0279par0164	Look at the records, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0281par0165	No, you can say whatever you want from there. He said something like that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0275par0166	Mr. President, you didn't listen. He said: 'Camer Young also slanders.' That's what he said in his speech.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0282par0167	No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0283par0168	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0284par0169	Let me take a look at the records, sir, that's not what I heard, but let me see, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0285par0170	Neither did I, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0286par0171	No, then let me prove it now...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0284par0172	I'll see what I can do.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0286par0173	He told me at the broadcast time of the TVs, and I want to explain that I didn't slander him.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0284par0174	But let me take a look at the reports, see if he framed me.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0286par0175	But in case you haven't heard, I mean, the camera boy also slandered me by mentioning my name.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0287par0176	Mr. President, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0284par0177	Let me see, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0286par0178	Yeah, you didn't hear it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0288par0179	No, sir...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0286par0180	Didn't you say camera boy? Did you or did you not say camera boy?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0289par0181	Mr. Young, he's slandering me. I'll see if he's saying anything.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0286par0182	Sir, the camera boy is slandering me. How come you didn't hear it?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0289par0183	He said camera boy, but he's slandering. I didn't hear him say that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0286par0184	No, sir, I mean, okay?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0289par0185	You're not...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0286par0186	I mean, he already teased me about putting my name in his mouth.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0289par0187	Mr. Young, please, I beg you very much! I'll look at the records, and you know I'll make you a promise if there's such a promise.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0286par0189	But, Mr. President, I mean, can you promise me two minutes?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0289par0193	Against Muk MP Sırrı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0290par0196	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise against the EC PARTY's proposal. I salute you all. Dear friends, we are all seriously disturbed by this existing system. I mean, we're going up here, we're talking, but we're not meeting on a solution. I mean, hold on to the wiretaps, the montages, or whatever, everybody's a victim in this system, this country. So, who's in charge of eliminating this victim? Turkey falls to the Grand National Assembly, doesn't it? Why don't you do it? From the very first day we said, "Look, thousands of people are in there because of these tapes." When we said, "You didn't move." So neither the power nor the opposition moved, and really today, thousands of people in this country have been victimized in this way. Now, if you're going to eliminate this, if we're going to build a judicial system that we can really all take refuge in, here, we can have a cleansing here, we can all form an independent judgment, but you don't have that problem. Look, the man I brought up here last night was a man named Hasan Alavi, born in Mus E-type Prison, 1930. So this is an 84-year-old citizen, an uncle from Bingol. At the age of 84, he was sentenced for membership in the organization, he's in Mush Prison, he's sick, he's miserable. Now, if there's an 84-year-old member in this country, then this country is over, but your law has a double standard. So, the Kenan Universe and its friends, who carried out the coup, are enjoying themselves there, and the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court, are currently evacuating whoever they want in this country. The coup artist Kenan is in the GATA, but Uncle Hasan, 84, is in Mush Prison, and that is your legal system. Other than that, look, yesterday the European Court of Human Rights ruled another conviction. So Uğur Kaymaz was attacked with his father in Mardin. Uður Kaymaz was killed with 13 bullets in the belly of Kızıltepe. What did you do? What did your courts, your special court-appointed courts do? Eskişehir took the case. Eskişehir is the place for this kind of murder to be cleared. The perpetrators of Uður Kaymaz were acquitted. Uğur Kaymaz's family and lawyers applied to the European Court of Human Rights, and yesterday, the ECHR sentenced Turkey to 140,000 euros for violating its right to live. According to my data, 16,700 cases are being filed in 2012 and there is a total sentence of 23 million, 424, 794 euros in prison. I've been to the European Court of Human Rights a dozen times as a victim, I've convicted Turkey dozens of times, and Turkey has been a constant prisoner on this subject, and my teacher here, of course, is an expert on this subject, but... look, your judgment here protects and protects the killers of Uğur Kaymaz, but Uğur Kaymaz's family is taking them and condemning them in the European Court of Human Rights. Now, come on, let's all get something out of this process. Look, there's news on the social media that the new tapes will be rerun in an hour. So, in a country surrounded by this much fear, in a country where Parliament is under so much pressure, in a country where politics is under so much pressure, how are we going to design politics? I mean, let alone fear, people can't make politics, they can't even breathe. So we can start a new process here in a unity with power and opposition. Look, there were countries in our position. So in the period of Franco, when the post-Franko people went back and said, "Can we solve a problem with a confrontation?" But they turned around and looked back, everyone's hands were bloodied, everyone was dirty and rusted during that period, and so was our country; in a 30-year war and 90 years of denial and denial policies, everyone was contaminated and rusted. For him, Turkey needs a period of legalisation, and for him there is a need for a social compromise. Parliament can make this happen immediately. If he can get through this, Turkey, yes, can move on, leaving his troubles aside. We have our pain. Look, I'm not just Uður Kaymaz. They took it, they slaughtered it, and the governor there did everything he could to justify it. Then what did he do? He took the court and sent it to Kayseri this time. In Kayseri, search for intermediary formulas to exonerate murderers. Now, this is the case of Ali Ismails in our country, this is the case of Uður Kaymaz, this is the case of Eren Hawks. I mean, if we can combine all the pain together without separating the pain, we can solve our problems together. We believe that, and we look at life through this window, and we believe that that's the way it should be. If you're in, that's how you get a cleanse out of here. Otherwise, the rest of us get up here, everybody has so many words to say to themselves, but we're all going through a process where the word doesn't pay. Well, dear friends, we say, look, come, there's a new process, let's implement a process of democratization that fits the spirit of a new process. Here are important tasks for you, the AK PARTY. This week, you call it a re-democratization package in two days. This democratization package could be a trust package. So before the elections, if you're taking a process -- we've been saying it for a long time -- starting negotiations, but we're just saying that there are dialogues, that we're still not at the negotiating point. In order for him to find life in this package of democratization over the past two or three days, we, like this Uncle Hasan, can take a step forward, like these sick prisoners, and so on, for twenty-two years, with people who have been unjustly in private authorities in court and in prison under the sentence of state security courts -- from Balyoz to Ergenekon ▪ of Ergenekon, who has been a victim in this country. That's how social compromise can be achieved. But this historic process has shown to us all that these legal arrangements are of no use to anyone, sir, if we just make a legal arrangement to save ourselves. So we're saying that we can co-operate and bring them to life. Yeah, it's still the shame of this country, isn't it? Look, what age are we in, if there are still hunger strikes in prisons, if people still have cancer patients in prison, can provide treatment and needs through their friends -- and if we're watching this, Parliament -- if there are no judges he knows in the Constitutional Court, or in other courts, isn't it our duty to free these people? If there's still torture in prisons and people are still on hunger strike in the prisons to protest the torture, the torture that offends this human honor, the search, it's indeed a disgrace to Parliament. Come and make this legal arrangement together. Let's all do this together, or these wiretaps, or these tapes, I don't know, come out every day. But the important thing is that we all need to form unity against it, we need to make a legal arrangement in accordance with the spirit of this union, and, as I said, that process in Spain can also survive in Turkey -- a period of mutual legitimization is inevitable. The only thing Turkey needs is a halalization process. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0291par0209	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. On the other hand, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0292par0213	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge to express my opinion in favor of our group's proposal, and I respectfully salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, our group proposal contains suggestions on the days and hours of our Parliament's work this week. We also recommend that some of the laws be taken up in the front row. The 562th Law Proposal -- which is the National Education Basic Law -- is recommended to be taken to the fourth place of the agenda and to begin their talks today, hopefully, after the group proposals. This law will be considered the basic law. It's 38. After a technical correction in Article 27, the number has increased since the jokes there will be discussed in the form of matter. Hopefully, we're recommending our Parliament to work by Monday. Some of the laws on the agenda are now out of commission. There are also laws that we expect to meet the waiting period under the charter. As of today, I hope that we will begin with the National Education Law, and with a peaceful and productive study, we will complete those law talks. I look forward to your support for our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0293par0218	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Against him, Ankara MP Levent Gök... Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0294par0222	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the group proposed by the Justice and Development Party today. I salute you all with love and respect. The Justice and Development Party's proposal envisions a working arrangement that includes Monday (March 3rd) as well. In fact, in the period when we've entered the election process and everyone has to go on vacation and go to election circles, starting with the December 17th bribery and corruption operation, as it turns out to be going on until now and after today, the laws brought by the AKP have continued to prevent bribery and corruption operations, covering, darkening activities. In a democratic country, the power of power increases, the power of power increases the accountability of power, and in developing transparency, the opposite practices take place in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, we've had a hearing about the 4 ministers. For the first time in the history of the Republic, two trials have come about a Minister of Justice. Where are all these arguments? Is the accountability of power exposed, or is power avoiding accountability? The power speakers are talking here. Every word of power, every speech of the Prime Minister, every step he makes, is broadcast live from many televisions, while you have endured even a subtitle by the president of MHP from Morocco? Who has the right to interrupt the leader of a main opposition party, the leader of a political party, which is the essential element of democracy, to cut off Parliament TV? Whose place is it to interrupt the words of a congressman who's talking here, to black out on the screen? What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? We were disturbed by the Internet's recordings months ago, years ago, and we expressed that, but you were very pleased at the time. Let alone interrogations, you condemned people with these images, stole their lives. You've made all our people rot in prisons, but then the Prime Minister was pleased. Because when the opposition went to prison, the Prime Minister was pleased, and when he saw the images from the Internet, he was saying from the rally squares: "You see what's coming out. It's all over the place, the shit's coming out. You'll see what happens next. Gangs, mobsters, the activities of dark forces are being unleashed. Is that what I'm saying? That's what the Prime Minister of this country said. Then what were you thinking? So -- now you're complaining about the parallel state -- we walked together in the Prime Minister's rally squares. Did you walk with us?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0295par0227	We walked with people.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0294par0228	Did you get wet with us in the rain? Whoever you're wet with, whoever you're walking with, ask them to account for it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Don't enter my freedom zone, I'm a citizen, I demand, I complain to the government, the government is not the office to complain. If you haven't been able to discover this parallel state for 12 years, you've already gotten over it, precious MPs. However, if you have nothing to fear, what did Bakili Yıldırım say at the time: "Don't be afraid to rest if you have no wrong jobs, illegal jobs, and don't be afraid to rest, and speak as much as you want. " Speak, my dear friends, and we are willing to fight against gangs and all kinds of illegal business, but you are obliged to solve it. We were victims, you didn't listen to what we said when we were victims, you didn't do it. So you have no right to complain. Look, the allegations that have come out are dire. We're calling for an investigation commission on allegations that have arisen, and you're refusing. Let's investigate all of this, get in on it, and we'll get in on it. What are you afraid of? You can't turn them off by blackening everything, by shutting down the screens, by shutting down the MPs, by shutting down the media, by shutting down the Parliament TV. Look, what happens when you do this, my dear friends? When you do, you are ranked last in the list of corruption in Europe. You're ranked last in the democracy ranking. What do you have to do? Now, look what you have to do: in the past few months, the French Finance Minister resigned because he couldn't explain the unusual actions in Swiss bank accounts, my dear friends. Democracy? That's democracy for you. So, what did the Japanese Minister of Agriculture do in 2007? He was accused of charging the government $236,000 for free services such as water, electricity, without rent in his office, giving tenders to businessmen who donated to his campaign ahead of the election, and he couldn't stand it and committed suicide during the investigation. In December 2013, when the governor of Tokyo claimed to have taken $5,000 in bribes, he went out and apologized to the televisions and resigned.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0296par0233	Saricul, did he hang himself?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0294par0234	You want democracy? That's democracy for you. You want human rights? Here's your human rights. If we do this, it'll be a democracy. Look, it's our job to cover any bet. Come on, let's set up investigation commissions here, let's get the reviews, and let's all set up a commission on them. If there is a thing about us, bring it about us, and We will cause them to enter into it, one after the other. (Applause from CHP rows) Let's go one by one on corruption, without saying AKP, without saying HHP, without saying CHP. That's a challenge. The challenge is that when opposition claims come to the agenda, not by covering it up; rather, you will be accountable. We're talking budgets, the Court reports aren't coming in. Where are these Court reports, the proceedings? We're after these arguments, my dear friends. You'll never be exonerated without doing this. Look, I've been talking here lately, and a lot of your friends have complained. A search decision was made for four million people in Ankara. I said, "You have stood up; the state of emergency has been declared in Ankara." I said, "You have stood up." And I followed it, and I kept following it, and as a result, the court, with a very good decision, with a decision that would go down in the history of the law. Is that bad? Have you seen the power of the opposition? Opposition is needed, dear friends. Opposition will answer, power will answer; that's the rule. Tomorrow, when we are in power, you will question Us, and you will question Us.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0297par0238	When?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0298par0239	When?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0297par0240	Mr. Levent, when will that be? Why don't you tell me what time it is?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0299par0241	It is for you to take account, and it is for Us to take account. We're open to account, but you don't answer. Look, valuable lawmakers, politics is not a means of enrichment. The ministers, the MPs, the Prime Minister, we all have to prove that our property is worth, cost and where we get it. Politicians, Aaron will not come from this world and Karun won't go away, my dear friends, he won't go away. If I'm corrupt, it's your job to put it out there. Look, pictures have landed on the Internet today. The Islamic scholars, based on the events, painted a representation of Muhammad's house. Look at this simplicity: one bed, three or four pots of pottery, and the wealth of Muhammad the Holy One, in his heart...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0300par0244	You've made great progress.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0299par0245	...this photo, which is so comfortable with so many people and doesn't depend on any wealth, has been exemplaryly published on the Internet today. Look, the one who guided us, who illuminated us all, who set an example for all of us by his honesty and accountability.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0300par0246	This is really good news.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0299par0247	We've all seen once again how modest his way of life is.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0300par0248	You've got great progress, Mr. Levent.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0299par0249	Those who mention the name of religion, if you are rich, then Aaron has come and Qarun has come, and Muhammad is not in your way. We must look for ways to go as we always do in politics. Politics is not a means of enrichment, politics is, on the contrary, a means of service to society. Therefore, this offer you have made today is nothing more than your efforts to clear, blacken, and cover up all claims, corruption, and corruption that have been raised today. Of course, you will account for this to our people, our people will share their account with you, and on March 30th, he will certainly, certainly do what he has to do.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0300par0250	Inshallah, inshallah.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0299par0251	Because you should know that the righteous in the Turkish people have more courage than the dishonest.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0300par0253	Wow, you've finally said the word of Inönun.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0254	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the Justice and Development Party's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0302par0257	Mr. President, I read what came in there. He says: "Even if the camera boy shouts, the people in you who respect the humanity and the law think as we do. " I mean, every time I say that I have no compassion, that I'm disrespectful...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0303par0258	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0259	Now, I don't see any bullying in that, Mr. Young, even if he's yelling, there's no bullying in that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0302par0260	I don't understand, Mr. President, the friend made a promise, I don't understand.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0261	If you want to talk to your friends, talk backstage.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0302par0262	No, no, no, I mean, I got interrupted by a friend, so... I mean, there's teasing here.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0263	I don't see any bullying, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0302par0264	Then vote, vote, no, I insist. It's the Civil Code, dear. If I insist, you'll have to vote.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0304par0265	Mr. President, he was talking to me, and I told him to shut up. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0266	Now, Mr. Young says...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0302par0267	Ma'am, look, the Civil Code says if you...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0268	Now, he's saying... wait a minute, let me explain. Excuse me for a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0302par0269	Yeah, okay.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0270	Besides, even if the camera boy yells, he goes on to say, "Well, some of you are merciful, respectful of the law."
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0305par0271	He shouldn't have yelled, Mr. President, while I was talking.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0272	Now, we don't know what you said back there, he didn't file any reports. Even if he cries, he says. We don't see any bullying here.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0305par0273	I'm inviting you not to scream.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0306par0274	Mr. President, I'm saying there's been some bullying here. According to the Civil Code, if you call me "no offense," you must present it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0275	All right, then I'll present it to the General Assembly. Don't pick on me here...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0306par0276	I insist, there's teasing me here.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0277	Yes, Mr. Kamer, do you agree to be made a promise for bullying Young...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0306par0278	Look for the number of decisions, and I want the number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0279	...I'm asking you if you don't agree, those who agree to be promised...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0306par0280	I'm saying the decision is enough, the decision is enough.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0281	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0307par0282	I don't vote.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0283	There's enough to make a decision. [[Noises]] Well, then, members of the law, I'm doing what the Civil Code says, and I'm asking you very much.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0308par0286	Mr. President, democratic fundamental rights and freedoms cannot be put to a vote. Don't interrupt Mr. Kamer...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0301par0287	Change the Civil Code, Mr. Tanal. That's what the Civil Code says, and Mr. Young has requested it. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the National Education Basic Law, which is ranked in the third place, and with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 562 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered as the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to be completed and transferred to its articles, the chapters will be discussed, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter will address the entire bill on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0309par0307	Mr. President, in fact, this law should not be discussed because the law brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been terminated from all personnel at National Education. Terminating is an administrative procedure, which cannot be terminated by law, by law, by law, by law. Therefore, the law brought in is invisible, against the Constitution, sir. I'd like to discuss this in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0310par0308	The speaker's on the stand, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0309par0309	But there isn't, so before you make a promise... this law is invisible.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0311par0310	I've invited Mr. Serter to the stand, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0309par0311	But, you know, just listen to the congressman, and then invite him over. I mean, this law is invisible because here...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0311par0312	You spoke after I invited him, sir. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0312par0314	Thank you. Mr. President, there is a new legal arrangement in our country against all its co-owners, with the bill number 562. Education unions are against this arrangement, teachers are against this arrangement, classrooms are against this arrangement, and as far as I know, at least two opposition parties -- I think -- are against this arrangement, including BDP.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0313par0316	He's definitely against it, I don't think he's against it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0312par0317	As usual, unfortunately, this bill has been submitted to the Parliament, regardless of these objections. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I would like to briefly sum up why we're against this: once again, since the AKP is in power, all the arrangements for education have been based on political purpose. No serious practice on education, on improving the quality of education, on solving its problems, has been passed through this Parliament. What we are discussing today is a bill designed as a product of AKP's reckoning with the congregation and the purpose of liquidation and staffing. The law brings order in two basic areas. First, he removes the classrooms, he disposes of them; second, he removes, removes, removes all executive staff, including school principals and vice principals, except for the National Ministry of Education's Undersecretary and the President of the Education and Education Board. Why are you liquidating it? To replace him. So, we're looking at a bill that aims at liquidation first, and then staffing later. Now, first, let's get to the classrooms. The Prime Minister said: "Since we came to power, we have been thinking about taking down the classrooms all the time since 2007, but I've given and counted the names of the ministers before this -- I told Hüseyin Çelik, he didn't; I told Nimet Çubukukurak, I told him -- Pardon did not do it in the name of Prime Minister; I told Omar Dinçer, he didn't do it, but now Mr. Nabi will. Now, why didn't these ministers do what the Prime Minister asked, if they really had something to do with the removal of these classrooms? By God, there's a former Minister of National Education explaining why they didn't do it, Mr. Nimet Chief. On November 2, 2013, he interviews a magazine and says: "As long as there is a transition to higher education through the central exam, the classroom must continue its function." Now, what do I understand? I understand that those who served as ministers of the Justice and Development Party, the Ministry of National Education, are actually aware of the irrationality here. Now, since the Prime Minister wanted to get rid of the classrooms, we have to ask, what was he supposed to do? He should have fixed the number of classrooms at least first. So, what's it done? Since the AKP came to power, the number of classrooms has increased by 100 per cent, valued lawmakers. When we were 2,100, did we go up to 4,200? No, you did. You, the AKP, have increased the number of classrooms, you know, at times what did they want? For what did they want? For what you said, you have sometimes increased the demand of out-of-commitment classrooms, but taking into account Turkey's demand. So, really, let the classrooms close. A political party in its mind wouldn't double the number of classrooms. Well, then, how true the Prime Minister is, I'll leave it to your appreciation. Secondly, the Prime Minister made a statement and said: "My dear, those who go to classrooms in Turkey are already very small, 15 per cent of the students in the 12th grade. See, 61 per cent of the students in the 12th grade go to the classroom; 44 per cent of the students in the 8th grade go to the classroom, which are in the classrooms in between. So, if they're going, they're probably just going to go to the gym, have fun, honey, and go to the school for the weekend, and they're not going to pay the whole world for it. You went to this classroom for a reason. Now we're looking at this reason, to see if, you know, the necessity has been lifted: Central exams. Is it stopping, Mr. Lawmakers? It's in place. Is this a quiz? It's a quiz. I mean, the minute you're on top of one point, you can get off somewhere and go to a college or an Anatolian high school. So, who's making this, school? No. Why isn't he preparing a school? There are two reasons: 1) The educational system of schools does not correspond with the system of classrooms, or rather the system of examinations; this is one. 2) Dear MPs, are all schools in Turkey at the same level? Do all schools have the same educational quality? No. There are schools in certain parts of Turkey that teach very well, and there is even a huge gap between one school in the same city and the other. So, who's going to make that difference in a system of central exams? Who's gonna make up the difference between schools? Here, in order to make that difference, families make sacrifices, spend what they have in their pockets for their child, give it to the school, and thus try to ensure the future of their child. Now, what are you doing? You close the classrooms just to deal with the congregation. I'll also come to the parish. There's something very important you've been ignoring while you're doing this. Even if you shut down the classrooms, these classrooms will go down the stairs, work off the record, the state will lose taxes, but more importantly, rich families, wealthy families will hire teachers, bring them home, children will prepare for these tests with private teachers, because, in turn, a lot of school teachers will be exposed -- children of middle-income and low-income families will be completely deprived of that opportunity. So, you also bring an arrangement that serves the rich, which excludes the poor, eliminates the opportunity for education, prevents the opportunity to secure the future. On the other hand, you know, when we said you were dealing with the congregation, did you ever think about that? Are you sure each and every one of these lighthouses will turn into a separate college prep school? Can you stop it? You can't stop it. Each house will be a schoolhouse, 10 children will be united, and in a house, private teachers will take this class, but the government will lose taxes. The poor, middle-income family will be deprived of that opportunity, and the children of wealthy families will secure their lives from now on. You're bringing in a law that nullifies social justice. Now, let's face it with the congregation. Some friends, AKP lawmakers, say that, my dear, this law has nothing to do with the congregation. Look, the Prime Minister has a very clear point about this. The prime minister says: "We can't just give up all education to the association and institutions of the congregation. " He clearly says that he is targeting the congregation when he talks about the classrooms, through the classrooms and through the schools, of course, that he can't deliver it to the congregation. Now, before this quarrel with the congregation began, you all loved the congregation, dear friends. So here, on this bench, you almost lynched people who said two words about the congregation. I remember very well, when I was speaking here, in 2007, in a speech, I read these lines of the congregation by then Minister of National Education Hussein Steel, and I want to remind you of those lines now. He wrote an article for Huseyin Çelik and the congregation saying: "Fethullah Hodja - he is speaking to Professor Fethullah - a revolutionary, washing, pouring, a knife in his hand, a gun in his back, a generation of mending, a pen in his hand, faith in his heart, a patriotic youth." You say God, you say God, you say Abubekir, you say Omer Sahabe, you contribute to opening schools, opening classrooms. We didn't say that, we never said that. (HPP's applause) Deputy Prime Minister Hüseyin Çelik, the AKP government's Deputy Prime Minister, said that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0314par0334	Vice President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0312par0335	Vice President... When I read this here, Huseyin Çelik came up here, and he answered me with these words: "You criticized me. I'm thankful that I don't think like you. He said at that time. I don't know if he's still in the same grace.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0315par0337	It doesn't matter!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0312par0338	Now, about what I said that day about the congregation, which was like a note falling into history. Because some of you are eager to associate the congregation with the CHP! Now, what did I say? I said, "Fethullah says that when the light opens its houses, it will grow and spread with the permission that Allah has given it, and that one day the earth will become a mosque." This is the TV speech of Fethullah Gülen. ▪ Our young ones are being brainwashed and the congregation operates, such as a secret organization. You know what? So, you came at me here, from around here, from around here, you came at me to beat me up. What happened? You were surrounded by the congregation, you were easy, you were hand in hand. When you've become enemies, you're now saying, "Hashhashi" (Hashhashi). Put it all aside, you sacrifice our children to deal with the congregation and take revenge on the congregation, you sacrifice our young ones, you play with the bread of the people as if all the classrooms were the school of the congregation, you play with the future of the teachers who work there. (CHEERING) For what? To settle the score. For who? Retribution.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0316par0340	They're burning quilts for fleas.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0312par0341	And that wasn't enough, and that wasn't enough for you, and you weren't enough. You know, the community classrooms are closing, but there are a number of staffs in National Education, so what are you going to do with them? Then you have passed a law in national education that has never been written in history. All executives -- except for the chairman of the Board of Education, Training, and Discipline -- are suspended by law, and their duties are terminated. What are you going to do? Here, you use them as teachers, you use them for other purposes. Of course you'll appoint someone instead. Now, of course, people are asking some questions, and they say, "Do congregations move, or do they make room for another congregation on the way? " These questions are the questions on the agenda, and you should know them. The people who have been relieved of this mission, the people who have been relieved of their duties, are about 100,000 people. Why 100,000 people? Because there are 55,000 schools. Including the principal and vice principals of 55,000 schools. Do you know who these are? They're the team from the past who passed the written exam. Now, I'd like to thank the Minister of National Education... by the way, there was a clause in this arrangement, which was written or spoken or written in the appointment of teachers, and at our request, he changed it to verbal and written test. A serious correction has been made by putting its strength, its weight, to protect the importance of the written test there, but the weight of the oral exam is yet to be determined. If the weight of the oral exam is 40 percent or 50 percent, the verbal and written will make no sense in practice. Now, with the new law, the esteemed MPs, the governors, are throwing out school principals. Can you imagine? The principal of the school used to take the exam, the exam was lifted -- even the Minister, I don't think he was fully aware, I hope they'd correct it now with a motion -- the principal is appointed by the governor. The governor appoints the school principal, the principal appoints the vice principals, and, unfortunately, the inspectorial system, which is very important to measure the quality of education in national education, is being given to the governors of the province. So there will be an inspection mechanism under the supervision of the county education director. So the teacher who wants it will succeed, the teacher who wants it will fail. Do you know what this is? This is the preparation to grab the corners and hit the corners. A system appointed by the governor is an unprecedented system. What about the inequality of opportunity in the law? See, in the case of a candidate teacher's failure in the past, there's been another method in the past, and now he's being cut off from the office, and the law brings it. So it's a failure. Now, who is this boy? This one finished education school -- there are 300,000 of them -- our children, our young ones, waiting to be teachers -- took exams, got into KPSS, got nominated for something. If he fails, he's cut off from the office and put on the doorstep. But the homeroom teacher -- when classes are closed -- can only be appointed as a teacher by oral examination, without taking the KPSS exam. What kind of double standard is that? The teacher of the school is appointed by oral examination, and the teacher of the school is not moved from there for four years, and he stays where he is appointed, without obligation to enter the KPSS. That's one. Two: He considers the existence of the Board of Education to be a bilateral decision-making body in law and education. Mr. Secretary, you haven't ruled it out, it stands to reason. You said you'd take it off. Now, the Board of Education decrees, and the Undersecretary is the decision maker. There was a conflict of power, and that's another way to put it. Well, then I'm asking: there's the Undersecretary, there's the Deputy Secretary. It's not a duality, but it's a duality of an institution that is represented by education, such as Training-Terbiye, which is represented by Turkish national education, to be converted into a consultation organ form? Now, dear friends, what was said in the law on transformation, the transformation of the classrooms -- which has been announced, we will give land to the classrooms, we will give buildings, we will help per student. This is a fairy tale. There's no plus advantage given to the classrooms in the fission. Whatever private schools are given when they're installed, whatever they're given, it's given to the classrooms. There's a big difference: if you have a case against the Ministry of National Education, I'll withdraw it and pay all the costs of the court. They say, "You took my land, my land, you built a school on it, and if you sue me, I'll take it back." The tip of the bat is not missing from the classrooms that turn. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying we're facing an unfair, inequal and politically motivated law, with all due respect.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit06spe0317par0354	Thank you, Mr. Serker. Congressmans, I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0317par0001	Congressmans, I open the Sixth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 562. The commission and the government are in place. On top of the whole bill, it was time for the National Party for Action. Ankara MP Zühal Topcu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0318par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of the entire Bill of Laws to change certain Laws and Laws. I salute you all. In such an important law and one of the main areas of Turkey's education and education system, I really take it as a black day for Turkey to be brought to such a jam and to work with a few people who have been found here, and I want to make it very clear to you. It really upsets us that such a bill was brought in during the election, in such a cramped environment, like a day, without consideration, without discussion. And I don't think that's going to have any positive impact on teachers, educational staff and students, especially at the moment. Today was a particularly important day, you know. We cherish those who died in the massacre of our 6,613 descendants, and we condemn those who did it with hatred, and we want to express that we will never forget it, and that we will keep it in our hearts. Now, especially when we look at national education, national education was made at Omar Dinçer's time in 2011 with a significant amendment to the National Ministry of Education's Agency and its duties under the Law. In particular, we are tired of counting the destruction of the AKP's power over national education over 11 years, but the AKP Power has never been tired of its destruction; we want to share it. Now, there's a major change in national education by going back to the amendment. With this decree, the organization's structure has been completely altered, and the powers, duties of the Ministry of National Education have been changed. In particular, Omer Dinçer has abandoned the executives appointed by the previous Ministry of National Education, appointing anyone who understands education as manager. And that's when he took the biggest hit on education, because there's been a complaint line, especially on the complaint of teachers. He brought the form or free clothes debate, and then he stepped back, and he took some really important steps to discredit the teachers, and he personally contributed to the demotion of that reputation. He compared his teachers to pigeons waiting for bait, but he also referred to them as a group of people who were only concerned about their salary, who were concerned about the increase in salary. After two years, we all bear witness that the same mistakes were made by Mr. Nabi Hunter and his team. Again, we are all witnessing that there has been a step back from the mistakes made during this period, and here is a new draft that, when we look at the bill that we're discussing here today, will change the central department of education and the municipal organization completely. These will also bring great injustices, and we will see them together. At this rate, the Ministry of National Education will be transformed into an institution run by a permanent boot camp. Because experience is very important, we always say. We serve human beings here, and the most important step in human service is experience, merit. However, together with the AKP's government, we have all seen that partisanism and advocacy have gone considerable distances, and the truth, the experience has never been considered. Now, when we look at it, we're still asking Mr. Secretary, but we don't understand the reason for this: why was this needed? You didn't ask the teachers, you didn't ask the parents, you didn't even ask us, you didn't ask the academics, and you went to a change like this, especially when there was only a short time before the election, and we still don't understand our logic, and we still want explanations from the minister, but I think he's determined not to explain it. I mean, why does this change keep coming up, why is it needed? Do you know who the people you're going to take over with these changes, who the people you're going to replace, who they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are; is there any meaning in the division, polarization, and other things in this area? In particular, this kind of structure from national education today, which has caused intense debates and dissolution, has made everyone very uncomfortable. Before we came here right now, we received so many phone calls, e-mails, faxes from all sides of Turkey that believe it; everyone wanted us to state in front of the Minister and the administration that their hearts were broken, that they themselves didn't understand it, and that so much savings, so much experience upset them, especially here in front of everyone, in front of the minister and the administration. More than merit and experience, it began to work, especially with the recommendation of AKP power. Only the Undersecretary remains, everyone else is being replaced, but we also know from the Commission that the President of the Education and Discipline Board has been replaced. Now we want to ask: Was there a critical turning point that was effective in this change? We, yes, think it's a critical point. Were the promises made in Oslo effective here? This law states that the principals of schools and institutions will be appointed by the governor for four years. This change has been recorded in Oslo's interview, and the online education, and these are the ministries that we remove, we give to governors and municipalities. We want to ask if this is the basis of the expression. In particular, during AKP rule, we would like to share that a significant part of the governorship now has been eliminated by the governor of the state and is acting as the deputy head of the AKP (AKP) province in charge of bureaucracy. In that case, we leave it to your conscience as to how unfair the assignments would be.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0319par0014	They have the search for justice, Hajji, justice...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0318par0015	I mean, yeah, they're debatable now. We would especially like to share the fact that in a situation where democracy is reduced to one finger lift at night, many concepts have actually been emptied. In this process, for example, a few of the most decisive criteria of the governors will be membership in the (malum-seni, which everybody knows -- or any exchange with the governor -- will be the basis here. One of the major dimensions of the bill is the national security dimension. The appointment of governors by central administration, elected by local people, is still in place in secret agendas as a matter of negotiation, as it will be remembered from the debates in the process of resolution and betrayal, which are tried as a solution process. However, the bill on the national educational structure will begin to make more sense in the case of this treacherous negotiation. More specifically, in such a case, the vice principal and vice principal will be appointed by the elected governor. Thus, it can also be said that the bill may be pre-prepared for the liquidation of the unitary state and the construction of the autonomous state. And here we see one of the things given by the law: believe in it, it's been hit from place to place, it's been passed down, and the headlines are inconsistencies of one another. Now, it is said that teachers' appointments will be made by the Ministry in central institutions of the Ministry of National Education, which is part of the project schools or the organisation, which has been opened with the Minister's approval, and will be made by the Minister himself. We'd like to share with you that the joy has gone as far as possible. Yes, valuable lawmakers, even though you have changed the Agency's Law, the reset of an old car's mileage indicator will never present a new situation. What's important is the vision you're putting out, the reality you're aiming at, what you're trying to get at, the way you're sensing people, the value you're putting on people. But what we see here is how we can stay in power for longer and offer an action in our own interests, leaving the human element aside. We can see that these are much more important. The fact that the Ministry of National Education is going to remove its current staff overnight and bring its own support team here will not bring success to itself, and we would like to share it, and we would like to point out that these employees are upset by the fact that there is a lot of partisanism going on here. According to media reports, the receipts here are not really expressed by truth or experience or objectiveness, and we would like to share that as a disgrace. Success at the Ministry of National Education can only be achieved with integrity and quality consistency. We just want to say that this arrangement by an old, clumsy, visionless team who doesn't know the problems of education won't do us any good. We'd like to rephrase the expression "pardon" in the process of giving up the sixty-two months of yesterday, because with these changes you've made, we'd also like to remind you of the actions and unhappiness you're going to cause when you think about how you're going to make it possible for the managers, the principals, the vice principals, or the families of the staff of the central organization, to think about the environment in which they've been setting up for themselves for a long time. But now that this nation has really lost its patience, it's worn out, it's tired, there's no need to believe it, there's no need to fight anymore, we'd like to point out it. In the event of the bill's legalisation, more than 100,000 principals still in office, the vice principal's position will self-determinate. That way, more than 100,000 of our managers, who have devoted their lives to education and management, will suddenly be out of office. Was that necessary? But have the staff here really been thoroughly analyzed? If there was a failure, where did this failure come from? I wish there had been an evaluation or a feasibility study before this, but then there wasn't this study with the participation of a few MPs. With all the parties working together, and with a study attended by the affected, perhaps a much better plan would come to light. This is a great injustice and disloyalty to our rulers, who have served faithfully and miserably for years. Beyond that, it's really cruel. Is it because you changed 110,000 managers to replace failed school administrators? Will our educational problems be solved by assigning school administrators and taking them? Is this the solution because the National Ministry of Education's control system doesn't work? Are the managers who have not been reassigned seen to fail? By whom has this bill been drafted in the Ministry of National Education? We'd like to share these as well. Again, when we come to the Board of Education and Discipline, it also brings up the beginning of this National Ministry of Education, which has been considered the brain of the Ministry of Education, and has worked for many years to carry out these tasks. Because we'd also like to share the fact that you've done some really important work in determining fundamental policies in national education. Yes, it should be seen as an important step in the recovery of inspectors, especially under the name of the honorary inspector. The operation of the control mechanism will provide significant gains to the Ministry of National Education, but it is also a matter of debate as to how far the inspectors and their work spaces will be opened. In particular, one of the most important steps in this bill, and one of the main reasons is that when we talk about classrooms, we come across a much worse picture. Yes, the subject of these classrooms was specifically an issue that could be solved with long-term studies that were brought up to account for someone, while the solution was an issue that could be solved by removing the reasons that made it, by cutting it like a knife, or by creating alternatives that really didn't make any sense, which we can see. Here, when we were trying to find a solution to the study halls, we found that open high school was closing at the end of this year. It was said that the school was closing. And because it was rushed, it was a work subject, I can't say that it was still clear. Now, when we look at the transition to secondary school institutions, there are so many inconsistencies in the transformation of these classrooms, that when almost private schools have half quotas, there is still a reason for the conversion of these classrooms into private schools. It's still a question of how to do that. This is a very funny situation, especially when it comes to funding students who are going to go here, and paying them. Because when we look at the current schools, the Ministry of National Education is unable to support schools. Even the broken windows are provided by school administrators, school principals, by their own personal communications. Since water and gas coins come with cards in Ankara in particular, there is no filling up until the time is over. I mean, it's really a comedy to have children sent to private schools, to be sent to schools, to be paid by the government. In particular, you keep those classrooms open in social, artistic, sporting, cultural and professional areas as you close both college prep and high school prep classes. So we ask, are you going to pay for these courses, or are these courses free? It would be much better if you were to clarify that. We want to point out that as long as there's a test in the system, as long as there's a competition, the classrooms will continue. These will go under the stairs. It's called, it happens in houses, in the form of private lessons, and it's going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and If you're preparing the classrooms... that would be the elimination of the exam system, which is long-term studies, then it would be much easier for you to eliminate these classrooms. In particular, when we come to the appointment of the school teachers, there are over 300,000 teachers who are already not assigned, and the appointment of the school teachers with oral examinations in particular under certain criteria raises the question marks. What will the criteria be in the oral exam? Will it matter whether it's letters of reference, reference cards, or negotiations with someone else? ▪ What are the criteria for the teacher's oral exams? How will the needs be determined? How many teachers will be taken? If he does not pass the oral examination, will these teachers not be taken? There are more questions, such as these, and we would like to point out that the two-headed selection system will lead Turkey into chaos. The fact that the performance review of teachers' internships, the removal of their internships with KPSS points, really brings up the performance evaluation system, which is presented as an important pill, but then the verbal or written test thing really raises doubts here. Please remove the hand you extended to the education system. If you want to buy with KPSS, take our teachers. Instead of depriving them -- at least -- for a year -- you should choose a way to continue your studies by training them with experienced teachers. Since the subjectivity of oral or written exams is always on the agenda, please remove your hand from the teachers' pockets. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0320par0033	Thank you, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0321par0034	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0320par0035	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0321par0036	I'm sorry. Now, we're discussing this law, but it's a provision that violates the independence of our Constitution in Article 48. At the same time, the end of the duties of teachers, principals here is a violation of the Constitution, again, of what we call the principle of legal security. The removal of the classrooms, fully, in order to ensure the equality of opportunities in our existing Constitution, regulates social justice because the equality of opportunity also violates social equality and social justice principles. So in my personal opinion, Mr. President, this arrangement that is contrary to the Constitution must not be discussed. I urge you to exercise your authority on this matter. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0320par0038	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. But I believe that in the Commission, the President of the Commission has examined and reached a decision on whether this is contrary to the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0321par0040	No, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0320par0041	He needs a report. If you don't...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0321par0042	Such an argument, the dispute against the Constitution, did not take place in the Commission, and there is no such report. If there is, I beg of you, I urge them to communicate with us through you. So Mr. Secretary is here, and we'd like their opinion. So there's no such report.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0320par0043	You know, even if the commissions don't discuss it, proposals and bills are studied in accordance with the Constitutional principle of compliance. We're assuming that this has been investigated, and the Commission must have some information of its own.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0321par0044	Then let them give us information, which means we haven't received such a report. It's not in the reports.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0322par0045	Mr. President, the law requires a review of the decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0320par0046	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0322par0047	He must have a report on the Constitution that he has reviewed this law first. Isn't that right?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0323par0048	No, there's no such report.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0324par0049	Sir, there's no need, it means he accepted it as an embezzlement, Mr. President. What the hell?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0323par0050	Sir, the legislature doesn't have embezzlement.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0324par0051	Master, we've discussed this 50 times in every report.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0325par0052	Sir, look, resen, the bureaucrat friends over there need to do this preliminary examination. There's no need to bet.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0324par0053	If there is such a thing, he'll put it in the report, return it, or he'll accept it as an embezzlement.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0325par0054	Look, Hodja, the bureaucrat friends over there need to look into this. No need to bet, no need to demand.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0324par0055	Nevzat President, we've been through this 50 times, there's no reason to bring this up again. It's a unnecessary argument.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0325par0056	Sir, take a look at this if you want.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit07spe0326par0057	Yeah, I'm taking a ten-minute break. I'll take a look, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0326par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 462 rows. The commission and the government are in place. Now, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0327par0005	My dear President says it is free to establish private initiatives in the 48th article of our Constitution on this proposed proposal. I read the reason for Article 48 of the Constitution: "There is no such thing as removing private initiatives." However, the 13th Article of our Constitution states: "There can be no touching, eliminating regulations of the essence of democratic rights and freedoms." In this regard, the State is also obliged to take all measures for the development of people. This arrangement you're looking at, of course, is clearly against the Constitution, because it eliminates the classrooms, and it terminates all of the principals' duties. That goes against the rule of law that we know of in law, the principle of law enforcement, the principle of law enforcement. In this sense, if there is a report in the Commission concerning the violation of the Constitution or the violation of the Constitutional Code, they should submit these reports to us. So let's go over these views again. But we haven't been notified of this report until now. In this regard, I would like to ask your president to review these objections. But if there's going to be a procedural debate, Mr. Group, our Vice President will have made a commitment against your position. And I'll be taking it against you. I don't know who's gonna take advantage anymore.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0328par0009	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0329par0010	In the end...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0330par0011	Now? I apologize, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0331par0012	Now, wait a minute... According to the Civil Charter 63, I will open a legal debate on the matter.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0330par0014	Now, sir, or after the speeches?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0331par0015	I'll do it now, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0332par0016	Lehte...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0333par0017	In the end...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0334par0018	Wait a minute, guys... there's a gentleman's agreement... one promise to each group, that's how it's understood.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0335par0019	Yeah, okay.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0336par0020	Ozcan Yeniçeri will speak against you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0335par0021	Against you, Mr. Janicire. You?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0337par0023	I'm against...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0335par0024	Against...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0338par0025	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0335par0026	You're in favor of...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0339par0027	It's in favor of... Mr. Baluken, are you going to speak? Okay.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0340par0029	I mean, I opened it. Aren't you going to count me in, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0341par0030	You opened it, but the others took the floor. Now, in favor of Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın, please come in. I'll give you five minutes. You think it's suitable for the constitution. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0342par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, dear friends; of course, such claims about the proposal and the whole bill of violations of the Constitution have never been the subject of a formal debate. These allegations were sometimes inadvertent from opposition parties, when group proposals were discussed in the opening of the meeting, in the opening of the General Assembly, or when the relevant bill began talks on the overall text of the proposal. These allegations are justified by the Presidential Court to date, and if such a claim comes when the relevant clause of the Civil Code comes in, you make this claim on that clause, and that's when these claims of dissension are first discussed. So in fact, the Constitutional anti-contamination claims on the entire bill and proposal are not the issue here, it should not be discussed here at this stage. There are discussions, discussions, and discussions. What's next? After all talks have been completed, it is already submitted to the General Assembly's approval to switch to the articles. The General Assembly agrees that such a claim should be passed on because it is not existential, or if such a claim is true, the General Assembly may not vote that it should be passed on to the articles. So I don't think it's the right thing to do here today to have this discussion about the procedure. Because, dear friends, look, the 38th article of the Civil Code is very clear. Open up, look, what does it say here? The title says to study the fitness of the Constitution. The Commissions are obliged to first examine whether the bill or proposals referred to them are contrary to the text and the spirit of the Constitution. Each commission, regardless of which commission, must examine this proposal against the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0343par0040	The commission hasn't done a preliminary review.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0342par0041	Therefore, the National Education Commission has studied it. What does it say next? ▪ If a commission sees a bill or a proposal as unconstitutional, it rejects its grounds before it can negotiate the articles. • So what does it say? If it is contrary to the Constitution, it says that it cannot be negotiated by writing down its grounds. Our relevant commission, our National Education Commission, has studied this issue, has been discussed without regard to the Constitution, and has completed the Commission report, which is in front of us now. So it's not exactly right to discuss it here at this point. Again, the 84th article of our Civil Charter is very clear, so it does not allow any comment. See, non-constitutional motions are voted on before other proposals, for the grounds that a draft or proposal is contrary to the Constitution during the discussion of a bill or proposal in the General Assembly. What does it say here? The proposals demanding a rejection of the bill or a specific clause of the proposal, not all of the proposal, are voted before other proposals. Thus, the talks over all the talks are concluded, and after these talks are concluded, they are voted on. If you see which of these articles is contrary to the Constitution, you will submit the Constitutional Amendment motion and the motion will be discussed before other proposals. So here, both the 38th and 84th article of the Civil Code clearly regulates the issue here, without being able to comment, without even entering the rules. In some way, he says, the claims of unconstitutionalism on all of them cannot be discussed during negotiations on all of them. That's not possible. The Court of Parliament doesn't even have to decide that. Look, we agreed to discuss this with the group's proposal today, didn't we? This is the report of the commission from National Education on the classrooms, where the relevant bill will be discussed. We've already brought it to the General Assembly with the group's recommendation, and there's no discussion there. The General Assembly has decided that this law can be discussed with its vote. Therefore, in no way, during negotiations on all of them, dear friends, the claim of violation of the Constitution is not a subject that can be evaluated by the Council of Parliament, nor is it an issue that can be raised. You argue, you talk, but when the relevant material passes, you make motions. While this is the case, there is nothing in the relevant bill of the law, nor in the case of the Constitution. These talks will be held after they've been passed on to them. The group's proposal must be adopted by the General Assembly's vote, and when we look at the 38th and most relevant Articles of our Civil Charter, I say, dear friends have made it very clear to you, all of you, how the allegations of violation of the Constitution have been evaluated.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0344par0047	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Against him, İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0345par0051	Mr. President, now, the issue of conflict is whether or not this bill will be discussed in the General Assembly due to the violation of the Constitution of some articles of the law on the classrooms we discussed. Our friends gave me samples of the Civil Code stuff. Yes, that's true, according to Article 38 of the Civil Code, the commissions are subject to a bill or proposal that comes to them primarily in accordance with the Constitution, and if they make a statement concerning the violation of the Constitution, they refuse to discuss it without the amendment. In this proposal, this bill shows that such an assessment was not made by the commission. In accordance with Article 84 of the Civil Code, the General Assembly can make an assessment of the articles, or rather the Constitution shall be issued in Articles concerning violations of the Constitution, and opinions shall be expressed during those motions, and the General Assembly shall again declare whether it considers a violation of the Constitution or rejects those motions. Again, after all talks have been held, if the General Assembly finds a verdict against the Constitution, it may refuse to be passed on again. These are the rules that have been in both the Civil Law and traditionalized until now. However, I would like to say: In the General Assembly, these applications can be changed from time to time, through the implementation of the Presidential Court and through the decisions made by the General Assembly; we have seen examples of this in the past. For example, during the discussion of a bill here, a word in a political party's opposite game was not discussed by considering that a sentence is contrary to the Constitution. That sentence was removed from the grounds, the number of rows was reprinted, the meeting started after that; this was the first time in Parliament's history, but it was the first time. It is likely that if there is a similar demand after this, such an example has been set in the past. The office of the presidency, the Chairman of Laws, will set a precedent and guide it accordingly. Now I'd like to give you an example. Let's say that the state of Turkey is a Sharia state. Are we going to discuss this, my friends? Can we move on to the discussion of this bill, please? We can't discuss a proposal, a bill that clearly includes a clause that is unconstitutional. In this bill, there is an amendment that states and lifts the principle of the legal state, which is part of Article 2 of the Constitution. Article (3) and (8) of Article 25 of the bill clearly eliminates the state of law. With the law in effect, undersecretary of the Ministry of National Education, undersecretary of the Undersecretary and Training Discipline Board, deputy general managers, head of the Strategy Office, again school principals in the country, head of the county education director, school principals, perhaps in a certain amount of time, but their duties will be over. What does that mean? In order to eliminate a possible judicial audit, people are being laid off by law. The state of law is the state under which the administration's actions and actions are controlled by the judiciary; the state of law is the state that provides legal security for its citizens. Because of this very clearly unconstitutional clause, Parliament can now create its own law here, we can start an application, which will then be a precedent, tradition, and then the authorities will give up the tradition of breaking laws against the Constitution. That's my view, we can try this way. After expressing my opinion in this manner, I salute the President and the General Assembly and bid them good evening.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0346par0058	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Lehte Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0347par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. Actually, the thing to discuss here is the intimacy thing. We have a Civil Charter, this Civil Charter can be stretched all over the place, it's open to interpretation, it's a Civil Charter, and it's based on a coup of the Constitution. When it comes to our work, we interpret the Civil Law, and when it doesn't work out for us, we defend certain things, and that's where all the trouble comes from. In fact, there is no harm in discussing this bill or proposal here today, because it says in Article 38 of the Civil Code, if there is already a situation before the Commission comes to the agenda for violation of the Constitution, the commission will identify it and reject it. So if the commission didn't reject it and sent it to the General Assembly after the talks, there's nothing wrong with that. But here's the problem: in particular, as Mr. Akif Hamzacebi Bey put it, the AKP Group's earlier applications here have been fully contrasted. During the plan and Budget talks, our opposition was interfered with before the Plan and Budget talks began, the day before the agenda, with CHP, jointly jointly with the MHP, and using the joint vote because the word "Kurdistan" passed through that opposition. Now, Mr. Ahmet says that this is not the place to discuss the violation of the Constitution, this is not the place to discuss the procedure. Then why did you discuss our opposition fortune here the day before it was even on the agenda, and in the days of Parliament, you signed under a shame that was not in the history of the world of Parliament? You decided what a party should or should not be written on the opposition's behalf, and you brought about our opposition. There is not a single deputy here who can defend the Constitution, which you are basing on the exhumation of this opposition. Militarian, we're talking about the Constitution of a fascist coup. We also referred the issue to the European Court of Human Rights. We will follow the legal process of this and eliminate this shame page in Parliament's history by the standards of the International European Court of Human Rights, not by 82 Constitution. If there are things related to the situation of violation of the Constitution, it is already stated here in the Civil Charter 84: During the matter concerned, the Constitution shall be issued an anti-constitutional motion, which shall be passed before other proposals, and it shall be voted by the General Assembly. Therefore, the fact that this bill and the commission report have already come to the General Assembly shows that the study necessary for violation of the Constitution has already passed through the control mechanism, and there should be talks in the General Assembly. But I repeat: The intervention by all three political parties, especially during the Plan Budget talks, brought such an argument to our opposition. These three political parties, four political parties, are still unable to change a Civil Charter, cannot change the Constitution of a coup. Two people who read the same article of the Civil Charter interpret it differently and put it into practice according to him. That's where the trouble is and the trouble is. Therefore, I wish that all other political parties would be more sincere and serious in their discussion of the Civil Code and in their discussion of compliance with the Constitution, and I make this call. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0348par0071	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0349par0073	Mr. President, I'm sorry. So maybe in terms of changing the General Assembly's mind or at least in terms of changing your opinion, my request here is not to say that a clause or a proposal, a law clause, a bill clause, is contrary to the Constitution, in total, the Constitution. For example, teachers in classrooms will be appointed teachers before they are tested. The Constitution violates the principle of equality. We opened it that way.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0348par0074	Mr. Tanal, at your request, we've already opened it all up to him; that's why we've already opened it. Against you, Ozcan Yeniçeri. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0350par0078	Mr. President, the law that we're now talking about is a very serious and radical change in the Ministry of National Education's organization. So the law we're talking about is an agency law. When it was the Agency's law, it would have to go through the Plan and Budget Commission, which is the secondary commission, above all, whether the law is contrary to the Constitution. If these commissions aren't important, there's a question of why there's a commission, a commission, a commission. Now, any bill or proposal is examined in accordance with Article 38 in accordance with the Constitution. What does it say? The commissions are obliged to first examine whether the bill or proposals referred to them are contrary to the text and spirit of the Constitution. How will this study be conducted? The claim that it is not in accordance with the Constitution will appear there, and it will be held on top of it or without need, in fact, it must be addressed by the commission's head to examine it, examine it, and send it to the commission by linking it to a report. There is no sentence in this review report that says that the examination was done. So there is no information from the Constitutional Commission or from the Constitutional Commission in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0351par0080	If my teacher sees an anomaly, he will write it down. He says, read the second paragraph of 38.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0350par0081	But he didn't, so he could see if it was against him, and he's not in the mood to make decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0351par0082	If he sees anything out of the ordinary, if he doesn't see anything out of the ordinary, there's no problem. It's obvious.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0350par0083	Now, look, the second, when it comes to the commission, the commissioner will review it again in accordance with the Constitution. Nor is it in the report sent to the General Assembly for a statement that it is appropriate or that it has been discussed. Clearly, the Constitution has not been audited in accordance with the law. Well, is there a text in which we express in accordance with the Constitution?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0352par0084	Teacher, you're going after CHP.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0350par0085	If you listen, you'll know what I'm saying. We, now, have written here as opposition. In this opposition, there's the same sentence as: "You can't build a classroom in a country where a market economy model based on free enterprise is implemented." As a matter of fact, Article 48 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey states that everyone has freedom of employment and contract in any area they wish. In a society based on freedom of will, it is free to build private enterprises. It says, "Of course, the freedom of the individual is guaranteed to make contracts, choose professions and work." And we wrote that in opposition. Although this was stated that the Constitution had a particularly free enterprise and at the same time a violation of the freedom of rights search, again, there was no audit in accordance with the Constitution. Now, you're bringing in a law that, by law, reduces the leadership of the entire Ministry of National Education in a moment, like Mao's cultural revolution. All national education directors have fallen, vice principals have fallen, school principals have fallen. Well, there's nothing left to fall for. Now let's go out, let's do this, let's have the Minister of Agriculture come out and say, "From the moment this law comes into effect, every agricultural county manager in Turkey will be deposed, every agricultural cadastro director's job falls, the entire agency's duty falls." There's nothing legal about that. We'll explain them in a moment, but I'll tell you one thing: there's a cut-off here, and there are provisions in this bill that cut people off from freedom of rights. What's he saying? The freedom of rights is also in Article 36 of the Constitution: "Everyone has the right to a fair trial in front of the judicial authorities, as prosecutors or defendants, by taking advantage of the means and means." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thus, it is fundamentally contrary to the Constitution. That's why it can't be seen here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0353par0092	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Now, members of lawmakers, after this debate over the bill's claim that it is unconstitutional, the vote will be taken with your votes if it is necessary to apply for the vote after the last joke of Article 63 of the Civil Charter. I submit to you the matter of whether the bill should continue its negotiations based on the ruling.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0354par0094	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0355par0095	Sir, are you offering to continue, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0353par0096	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0356par0098	Those who agreed... those who didn't accept... have been admitted to be unconstitutional.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0357par0099	Mr. President, the Constitution has been declared unconstitutional.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0353par0100	The number of decisions is enough... one minute...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0356par0101	He's already down, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0357par0102	Mr. President, what did you ask the General Assembly?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0356par0103	Mr. President, he's already fallen, they've agreed to a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0357par0104	They accepted that it was against the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0358par0105	Two of the scribe's members say there is one.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0356par0106	Sir, the Constitution has been ruled against.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0359par0107	We voted whether or not the bill should continue its negotiations.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0360par0108	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0359par0109	They had an opinion on whether it was contrary to the Constitution. He's wanted to meet, even if he's out of line.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0361par0110	Mr. President, if that's against the law!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0362par0111	You voted whether it was against the Constitution or not, and they agreed it was against the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0363par0112	Mr. President, in your opinion, is it contrary to the Constitution, or have you expressed it?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0362par0113	Sir, look at the transcripts, look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0363par0114	Mr. President, you're not neutral.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0364par0115	Mr. President, you're right.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0365par0116	I did the procedure according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0366par0117	You can't express your opinion. It's against the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0365par0118	I didn't declare; I read the text here. Yes, now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0367par0125	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on the bill of law 562 rows under discussion. I salute the General Assembly. The education system in Turkey has been used as an instrument of Turkish and assimilation policies throughout the history of the republic.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0368par0127	Mr. President, an important matter is being discussed, there's a very loud hum, we can't hear it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0369par0128	Please, let's just calm down. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0370par0130	Dear MPs, the education system in Turkey has been used as an instrument of Turkish and assimilation policies throughout the history of the republic. In particular, after 80 military coups, the neoliberal policies of education have also been adapted to the needs of global capitalism in a marketing way. In the last 30 years, according to market conditions, the financing and curriculum of education have been constantly changed. These changes have been especially accelerated with the AKP's power, and education has been commercialised as a result of these policies. Public schools have been weakened, education inequality has increased. From 2002, when the AKP was in power, the problems of education have been aggravated, not only by ignoring the basic principles of education and the urgent needs of the system. In addition, the AKP has constantly subjected education to transformation through its 12-year mandate, both functionally and organisationally, with the logic of market-based business. At this point, the AKP government has launched the largest and most comprehensive liquidation operation in the history of education, along with the draft law we discussed, on the basis of the discussion of converting classrooms into private schools and transferring public resources to private schools. Honourable MPs are a very rich country in the diversity of Turkey, language and culture. Kurdish, Georgian, Nursery, Lazca, Çerkece, Pontus, Syriac, Abazaca, Armenian, Greek, Arabic, Chechnce, Persian, Melharlemic, and Pomakian are just a few of them. The constitutional and legal barriers to culture and languages, which are a sign of the biocultural diversity and wealth of Anatolia and Mesopotamia. With the paranoia of division, this wealth has been sought to be destroyed. Today, these cultures and languages have yet to be guaranteed the Constitution. This is basically a target for those demanding rights, institutions and organizations. The people who have resisted all these policies have been Kurds today as they were yesterday. Both the size of their population and the fact that they live in a specific geographical area and have a political consciousness have led to their own language, and their assimilation policies have been largely nullified. In Turkey, Kurds and Kurdish were denied for many years. Talking about Kurds and Kurdish is sometimes considered equal to treason. In the 2000s, it was treason to ask for a Kurdish education. A closed case has been filed against you because there is a law in your constitution that supports the language. Despite all this, the demand for education in Kurdish native language has continued to increase. Today, the Kurds fight for education in the main language is expanding and growing, including other peoples and democratic public opinion in Turkey. Just as official ideology's policies of destroying different languages in this country have failed, so today the government's approach to saving the day is also doomed to fail, which envisions special courses, elective courses, or education in private schools for a few hours a week, or native language. The right to education in the native language continues to be a basic human right, undisputed, non-negotiable, fundamental, which today all developed democratic countries share on top of. In Turkey today, all peoples, especially Kurds, whose native language is outside the official language, demand the immediate implementation of public education in their native language. In this regard, the government must immediately implement legal and constitutional regulations that will pave the way for public education and teaching in its native language. This service should be presented as a right for all citizens of the Republic of Turkey to speak a different language, demanding it regardless of the number, given the need for a state duty for all citizens of the Republic of Turkey. On this basis, demands should be taken into account, allowing the needed training staff to be rapidly grown by opening up bench seats in relevant languages at universities. Kurdish teachers who cannot be appointed even though they are promised should begin their work at once. Dear lawmakers, this bill that we've discussed includes the most comprehensive liquidation plan in history and the largest staffing move in the history of all educational executives, who are running public resources after private schools under the name of the closure of the classrooms. This bill represents much more than market-based policies and political staffing moves that have been implemented over the years. According to the draft law, AKP rule ignores that the number of classrooms rose to 4.262 by 200 per cent in its day. Over the years, he has ignored encouraging policies in the classrooms he has built to open up space for the congregation. In addition, the quality among educational institutions ignores the differences between students in class, sexual, regional, ethnic and religious inequality. While the current central exams are present, it is unclear by what policies and practices he will close these differences and inequalitys. While closing the classrooms is a positive arrangement, the class and regional inequality between educational institutions stands before us as a reality. In recent years, Turkey's international comparison studies have clearly shown regional inequality between the same species and the same level of schools. When schools are evaluated for average success points, regional inequality also appears to be two years old. In addition, it has been known that for years low quality education has been maintained as a state policy, especially in areas where Kurds live intensively, and in cities where students are given priority over the years, not academic success, but assimilation processes, where their native language has been ignored, mainly inexperienced education workers have been sent. Such policies reduce the quality of education in regional schools, preventing Kurdish students from reaching a higher level of education, more qualified education. This has caused deep inequalities in the region, as well as international comparison studies have made clear. In order to reduce the effects of differences and inequality, students living in particularly less socioeconomicly developed areas need supporting education. I mean, now, who can argue that a child who was educated in Ankara Çankaya has been educated in Ağrı, Hakkari, Şırnak, and the children who have studied at a school in Turkey's southeastern province? Go to the slums of Ankara, go to the village, go to the Turközözı, go to Şentepe, go to Şentepe neighbourhood, and see the differences there. There's a lot of difference, no doubt. So, despite all these inequalitys, you can't lift the test system, so how are you going to turn off the difference between these kids? Do you have any thoughts on that? In this sense, closing classrooms should be supported, but only municipalities must be given the authority to open municipal courses for public-service education, as a result of the difference between the same species and level educational institutions. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, this bill that we're discussing, will create major casualties in every sense. The AKP cannot ignore that its number of teachers has not been appointed in its day has risen from 60,000 to 400,000. He described teachers who had not been appointed in the squares before sitting in the ruling seat as the bleeding wound of the country, and said that when they were in office, all their first jobs would start the teachers. Today, though, the picture is in the middle. It is clear that the fact that only a few school teachers are on staff cannot cover that fact. While unassigned teachers are present, the AKP also wants to implement arrangements that facilitate the removal of appointed candidate teachers. With this bill, the AKP's government also attracts public resources to capital. Treasure land will be offered to the service of capital for up to ten years, for 25 years, for all or part of the school buildings on which the Ministry of National Education is not assigned, and for additional and complementary parts of these buildings to be used in education and teaching activities. As if these are not enough, they will transfer public funds to private schools under the name of teaching support. This also means the greatest impact of power on public education. What needs to be done is the use of public resources, which are taxed by the public, for public education. Public resources should be assessed not for private interests but for the benefit of the public, and public spending should be increased not only in education but in all service areas. Taxes collected from the public are unacceptable and necessary to be asked to transfer to private schools in a variety of ways, not to be spent on tens of thousands of public schools, which are miserable. It is also understood that it is an excuse to remove the classrooms, and that the main issue is to implement privatisation policies in education as well as in health. With the transfer of public resources into private, the quality of public education will be further reduced, and families will be sentenced to private schools. Today, Turkish Education Year 2013-2014 is an average of 16,000 in private school schools and 18,000 in secondary schools and 20,000 in high schools. How many million families in Turkey will be able to send their children to private school under such conditions? This practice will bring with it deep and irreparable class and regional inequality. With this bill, the AKP's ruling will remove all executives from the deputy undersecretary of the Ministry of Education to the deputy director, signing off on the biggest liquidation and staffing operation in history. All the rights of the education workers will be eliminated, all the powers regarding the appointment of executives will be given to governors and ministers who work like the governors of the government. A short time ago, the news was reported to the press that the Undersecretary of the National Education had flagged all the members of the Ministry of Education. Apparently, since the government can't find a single vice principal he can trust, they're all being relieved of duty. It is clear that the AKP will now build its new management positions as hierarchically with a partisan approach by the hands of governors and ministers. Today, the Prime Minister will directly fill the area where the congregation and ally unions have been staffed. With this bill, the AKP also staves the duties of institutions and organisations that are directly or autonomously linked to the Ministry of National Education. Instead of implements that will make these boards more democratic, pluralist and participatory, it is envisioned that their powers be handed over directly to the Minister. Centralization is through the roof. The super minister period has been initiated. The powers vested in the minister are not limited only to these. All personnel assigned abroad are given direct identification and removal authority by the Minister. He also gave the minister the authority to favor without worrying about accounting for whomever he wants, with verbal tests that no record can be made to determine students who will be sent abroad for grad school. With the arrangement in the bill, the ministry, the ministry, I can take any test I want when I choose people to go abroad, I can take any test result I want, I can appoint any candidate I want, I can get the commission to pick any candidate I want, and I don't answer to anyone. No registration system on the oral examination can be used in the article. There is a clear violation to all actions and procedures set out in Article 125 of the Constitution. Tests to determine persons who will go abroad must be determined, recorded, and the way to judge should be open in objections. In oral exams, no moral, scientific, and ethical principles are considered to be considered, but they are in full joy. As this bill suggests, the AKP is acting on the basis that anyone can do anything to bring its own men into office. So it's believed that an engineer can perform open-heart surgery, and a lawyer can lift a passenger plane. If it weren't for that, he wouldn't have offered to have business graduates, science graduates, law graduates, training inspectors. It also puts in front of us an arrangement in which all professors can be assigned, except for areas related to education at the Training-Terbation Board. Deputies, again, are obliged to take written or verbal examinations of teachers to be appointed in writing or verbally, if they are to be successful in performance assessment and not to receive disciplinary action, after a year of actual work with the 5th article of the bill. If the first test fails, the candidate teachers will be deported to another person or district and fail to pass the second exam, they will be suspended from office. At first glance, though this arrangement is thought to be unique to candidate teachers, it is understood that the arrangement was done in accordance with the National Ministry of Education's National Teacher Strategy Document. The Ministry of National Education, National Teacher Strategy Document and teacher training system and teacher employment are the market values of today's markets. He wants to shape it through concepts such as this, and he wants to apply the first step in the process of the appointment of candidate teachers to the original staff. The next step in this practice is the removal of employment guarantees from educational administrators, then all educational workers, and the rapid expansion of contractual employment in education. It is also unfair to reduce the quality of teaching to a test success because of this arrangement on the grounds that the candidates will be made more qualified. In the current application, it is not right to introduce another test requirement for teachers who have to pass three exams -- KPSS Education Sciences and KPSS Field Exams -- to be able to transfer to the original staff in the first year after being appointed. Raising quality in teaching is possible, not by elimination tests, but by more holistic policies. The teaching profession is transformed by AKP power into a technical profession based entirely on the test. The condition for the transfer from candidate to noble staff is not subject to test, but to practice and process. Any unsecured employment in education must be terminated immediately, this is paid teacher, substitute teacher, subcontractor, etcetera, etcetera. The AKP must immediately abandon marketers and hegemonic interventions aimed at education and implement the implementation and regulations that promote the public quality of education. It is fundamentally necessary to develop policies in everyone's native language that support and regulate and provide scientific, democratic, secular, public, free education. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0371par0160	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı... Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0164	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, I salute you all. We discussed this bill for two days, discussed, discussed the construction of the classrooms and the Ministry of National Education, and discussed it thoroughly on Fridays and Saturdays. First of all, I want to thank all the friends who participated in these discussions. I once again express my gratitude to MPs, bureaucrats, and the press who have taken an interest in the Commission, along with friends from CHP, MP, MHP, BDP, and AK PARTY. The opposition, in fact, raised very detailed objections there, which contributed greatly to what I called a discussion. Once again, while thanking them as opposition, let me make it clear from here that there is no conflict with the Constitution and that we have not had such an argument. A matter this important, of course, should have come up there, to say it didn't come up, but it came up in the General Assembly, and it was discussed. First of all, I'm going to make an assessment of the conversion of the classrooms: As we begin the first day of talks, I am looking for a representative who did not send his child to the school. So I made a statement a day later as Commissioner, and I said, "I'm a deputy who doesn't send most of them. My son didn't go to the classrooms, and even though he didn't go to the classrooms, he won the ODTU electronics and finished it. I guess I'm not the only substitute. In my day, there were classrooms, and I didn't go to the classrooms, but we went into Property and we read about it. I think there are other paralegals here who don't go to the classrooms, who don't send their children. Why did the classrooms show up? Is there anything going on here? I do. The exam system, the competition, the test format; all of this has revealed and improved the classrooms, right. We all know that the classrooms aren't an educational institution. What we mean by education is that the student is informed of his life, of his environment, of his culture, of the common cultural savings of humanity, that the classrooms do not perform such a function. It's not the information that the classrooms do, it's the method of teaching, so it's a method of how they're going to be successful in testing. As far as I know, all the political parties here are uncomfortable with the state's educational institution as well as the establishment of a second such institution, and they've been expressing their objections to it ever since. Their motives may be different, their solutions may be different, but we have a common understanding in our objection to the existence of the classrooms and that they have not contributed to education. In the end, it's hard to imagine how these things will be resolved, when the time comes or when the time is right, when the government presents a solution, negotiates, comes to a conclusion; then, if it is not appreciated, if another will comes out when the circumstances change, it can make another development. The issue is the reduction of the market side of the work on the classrooms and the claim that it's a completely marketed institution, and in this regard, we know what kind of advertising and propaganda the classrooms go through to demand students. We know that they have also put up students there with large banners, 1st and 2nd and 3rd places where they have entered. We know that they promote it in a tempting and seductive language. It's the same way, you know, you get hit two ways out of twelve. One: you throw, you hit. Two: you shoot, you write 12 where the bullet falls, you hit the bull's-eye. The classrooms also work a little bit of the second kind, which is that they're doing a special effort to recruit children who are successful in secondary schools and upper secondary schools, who are predetermined to win, who have performances. So they're turning those kids' genius and hard work into part of their own market relationship, beyond their own performance of who's going to be successful on the posters they're putting up later. Anyway, this whole publicity and propaganda thing has changed a lot in the 20th and 21st century, and I'm telling you, it's tempting and tempting, and that's what it's become. The classrooms also manipulate market relations with advertising like this, and basically sell my jacket, get my kid to read. There's an understanding that the school needs to sell their jackets and pants and send their children to those classrooms because they feel helpless as parents to build the market through advertising and propaganda. The classrooms didn't help at all? For this social mobile, it can be said that poor poor children benefit from education to middle and upper classes, but I'm sure that in Turkey, the greatest share of the social movement of these poor children is the republic and democracy. And the people in this House, I suppose, are here as ordinary workers, civil servants, if any research is done. My father was a postman, and my mother was a commoner. We studied, we struggled, because of the republic and democracy that we became professors in college, and then we came here today. The main source of social mobileisation in Turkey is the republic and democracy. I'm just saying that to underline it. The classrooms are being converted into private schools. The objection is: Private schools already have half capacity in Turkey. So who will the classrooms find as a result of such transformation? Dear friends, when we look at statistics, the European Union has an average of 11 per cent, 25 per cent in some countries, 30 per cent in others, 2.6% in Turkey. There's a very low rate on private schools, and it turns out that we're calling it Europe, because we're basing on various parameters for the European Union, and in this case, when we're making a decision in terms of public schools, private schools, we need the references here to tell us something. What's the state authority doing? As he converts the classrooms, he also encourages some children to go to these private schools. And these incentives are perfectly normal, so why are they being encouraged to go to private schools, why are public resources being spent like this -- if a more pejorative word is chosen -- it can be said that public resources are being withdrawn in a row, but I want you to agree that the competition between the public-private for the importance and quality of education -- is just as important in itself, and so is the public -- is the public. Second, you know there's such a thing as political economics. Political authority implements public resources within the framework of its own understanding, approach, social contract with the community. These public resources, not according to market relations, are spending in the direction of political understanding, not in the framework of the profit-harm curves of economics. If the public does not approve of the political will's incentives and supports when the public goes to the election, they will punish and glorify it if it is acceptable. It's probably because such expenditures, incentives, supports, which correspond to the political economy of the EC PARTY, which is the strategic place of politics, we're dealing with a 12-year-old power. That's what other parties do tomorrow when another party is in power, or other parties who have been in power in the past. To decide and determine expenditures within the framework of political economics. There's a debate about teachers. It is said that teachers who complete six years under the law bill and work in classrooms under the age of 40 will be admitted to the Ministry of National Education -- not without a test. They say: "Why do you hire teachers in the classroom when there are teachers who cannot be appointed?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0373par0176	An oral exam, verbal.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0177	I assure you, brother, whatever you may be, turn into classrooms, and do your own work. Our precious opposition would say, "Why are you putting those teachers on the street this time? You have no public responsibility to them, no conscience?" There's this one joke, you know, where the teacher and the kid get carried away by the donkey, no matter what they do, they can't get someone to like them. It is possible to object to political preferences and to make a number of allegations that the work is wrong. Reciprocal claims are also possible. This could go on forever, like mirrors looking at each other. But at some point, you have to make a decision, make a choice. That's what power does.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0374par0178	They won't make you minister, Naci!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0179	Teachers have been told from a long time ago, and under a test, teachers are being recruited by the Ministry of National Education. That's when the most teachers were bought. It's wrong, it's misleading, it's wrong to look at the university education system fully in terms of employment and to see only political authority responsible for it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0375par0180	That's not how you spoke in opposition!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0181	Of course, I'd understand if Turkey's economic power was based on assumptions, as political authority had a very large public source, but that's not the case, it's just...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0375par0182	Those resources are going to waste. They go to shoeboxes.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0376par0183	What's changed?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0184	Well, there's an understanding. The opposition, of course, will present its views, but we are dealing with the mind that claims to be any kind of victim, self-proclaimed, self-proclaimed, competing, conflicting environments among themselves, so to speak, people who, as they say, are willing and who want to make a conclusion out of it, by pretending to be the representative of all of them. For example, appoint us philosophy teachers." "Sociology teachers, appoint us." He says, mathematicians, appoint us." he says. Of course, they will, but the Ministry will make an appointment within the scope of their needs and finances, which should be met normally. If we start as unregistered, we expect the appointment of students to be appointed to various departments at all universities from the political authority, which is probably to put such a burden on politics, you know, the kind of authoritarian understanding that's always challenged, you have to do everything, whoever graduates from the university, you have to put him in a job right away. It means that you can't impose a kind of absolutety on political authority, which is not possible. The political authority, of course, will do so in the face of his resources and power. As for the Ministry transformation. Yes, the Ministry wants to make a transformation in line with the classical Turkish administrative system. Group presidents are head of office, a general directorship for foreign education is established, measuring and evaluation is established. Whatever the Board of Education did yesterday, don't worry, he'll do it tomorrow. So, he's going to consult, gather information, eventually, in the framework of bureaucratic hierarchy, they're going to be reflected in practice. This is one of the issues that is contested to make the duties of the Ministry permanent, such as the manager, the vice principal, and the vice-principal. It is extremely appropriate, and it is absolutely necessary to view it as a constructive approach to the teacher as the main emphasis on this work in national education, which prevents human identity from being identified by the seat seated. You take these people, you change the people in the ministry, you replace them with your followers, they say. I think that logic is conflicting within itself. If the AK PARTY had just come to power, you could say: "You're doing this to bring your own followers." It's not a logical assessment when you tell a 12-year power. Anyway, if he's acting the way you say he is, this power is gone, the allies are here! There's nothing you can say if you're speaking in terms of an ally. Well, if that's what you're saying, then the AK PARTY is acting fair, not acting with a sense of solidarity. Today, you bring your followers to uphold his law. When you object to it, he has been actually implementing a policy that protects the law of those people for 12 years. That's why I consider this whole "friendship" thing to be a very political, speculative thing. About the oral exam. What's wrong with having written exams and oral exams? We'll do it today, he'll do the red tape here, maybe you'll do it tomorrow. People don't have machines, people don't have parties on their foreheads. We're talking about a teaching profession. How he talks, how he talks. We also talked about it in the Commission, and there were some concrete categories about it. I mean, it's not... it's not a good thing to be insecure, I'll tell you that. Unfortunately, I think one of the main issues of Turkey is this act of insecurity. In fact, part of what we're talking about, what we're discussing... is this occasion that I'm going to address earlier. If we start out as insecurity, friends, there will be no end to this distrust. My name is Naci Bostancı, right, I'm up here on behalf of the AK PARTY, speaking. Have any of you ever asked me for I.D.s? Are you really Naci Bostancı?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0377par0188	We really have doubts about that!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0189	Do you really speak for the AK PARTY? You didn't ask, you didn't have to ask. But let's say there's been insecurity, we're always looking out for each other. Maybe I'm a stuntman for the Bostanist. You asked for my I.D., I showed you my ID. You said: "Your identity is false, and we don't trust it. I have brought a witness. You've arranged for witnesses. You said. Social life is built on certain trusts. If we continue to act in a way that is based on insecurity, then there's no way to be insecure, and there's no way to destroy social life. So, yes, I understand a reasonable degree of insecurity, and I understand the introduction of objective criteria in that kind of insecurity, but you're going to bring in all kinds of human-based test systems. I don't understand how to attach them to an insecurity form. I was actually going to talk a little bit more about the tapes and mapes thing, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you about that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0378par0191	You don't know they're new!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0192	And I'll tell you this, my friends, that someone's up to something in the dark, they're not out in the open. Who's doing it?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0379par0193	They won't make you a minister, don't flatter yourself, brother.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0194	I have no interest in the Ministry. Don't worry.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0379par0195	The Minister won't.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0196	I have no eyes.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0380par0197	It suits you. Why do you bother?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0198	Someone's shooting in the dark. Who's shooting, why is he shooting? That's what you have to ask. It's not just ours to ask, it's yours to ask.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0381par0199	You don't have to grease it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0382par0200	There's no ministry.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0372par0201	Because we don't have an address, we don't know who did it. You ask him when he writes a newspaper, when he talks to a politician, you ask him, but to open fire in the dark and manipulate politics is, above all, a shady job, an immoral job, no matter what. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Churchill goes to Cuba in 1896, and the Spaniards invite him. The Cubans and the Spaniards were fighting at the time. The Spaniards called me, but my heart was with the Cubans, Churchill says. A young lieutenant. He's watching things there. In his memory, he says: "Yes, the Spanish have a somewhat cruel side, and the Cubans resist them. Cuban resistance sometimes appears behind the bushes, in the dark of the night, and attacks the troops; they hit and run, their methods are a bit of a bandit. But I'll tell you this: you can't build an honorable state in the dark like this, like this, like this, like a bandit, like a bandit. He says that to the Cubans. I'm just saying that we would never support Turkey and democracy with an opinion that there are no analysis of who does what in the middle of the world, with bandits, in the dark, with unaccounted-for fires, who does what, just looking at the picture in the middle. It's not about today, it's about all of us. Turkey's democracy is already a naive democracy. We're not a rich country. You know, at the beginning of the century, democracy was the work of the rich. We all need to pay attention to this democracy. It's just that drowning in current debates and sometimes putting symbols on our heads -- like a shoe box -- can blind us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0383par0207	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0384par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0383par0209	Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0384par0210	Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0385par0211	What do you call this conversation? He taught me a lesson, a lesson.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0386par0212	Yeah, what's the word on that?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0387par0213	Wait a minute... let me find out what happened, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0388par0214	...has given misleading information about the issues we expressed in the Commission.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0387par0215	Sir?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0388par0216	He gave me false information, and I want to fix it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0387par0217	About what?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0388par0218	The opposition said...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0389par0219	Is there such a method, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0388par0220	Yeah, what's wrong with it? Adam...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0390par0221	Uh, excuse me for a minute, lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0388par0222	The opposition opposed the subject of transferring teachers to National Education, saying that there are teachers who can't be appointed, and breaking their law. That's not true. We said...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0391par0223	Okay, what does this have to do with Ozcan Bey?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0388par0224	That's where I said it, sir. If you look at the transcripts, you'll see him.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0392par0225	You're saying that as commissioner, he gave false information.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0388par0226	I want to fix this.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0392par0227	Here, fix it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0393par0228	The Commissioner is here, Mr. President. But there's no such tease.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0392par0229	But she told him. You're very welcome to fix it, no harm done. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0394par0233	You won't die. I'll tell you what we mean for two minutes. Don't let it kill you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0395par0234	Yes, ma'am. You just have to be patient.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0394par0235	He's been here for 20 minutes, we're gonna fix it for two minutes, and that's what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0396par0236	Ozcan, talk, talk. Speak, my dear Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0397par0237	Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0394par0238	Now, look, here's my exact statement. Mr. Secretary's here, Mr. Commissioner's here. We used the following phrases: the integration of savings, experience, and values in the national education system is a gain of national education.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0398par0239	No backing out.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0394par0240	▪ Since you cannot receive all the teachers in this classroom, some of them will not be taken here. There's going to be a disturbance among them. You have to take that into consideration. We said, "Two." When we take these, or those in the classroom, without a test, with a single interview, there will be a relativistic situation, an indignity, and you have to pay attention to that. Then, when you receive them, thousands of teachers, about 300,000, who have not been appointed to the National Education, will also have objections, and there may be action in the matter. That should also be considered. We said: But you're telling us that the opposition opposes the taking of teachers in the classrooms, and they're resisting this one way or another, just to make an opposition. There's no such thing. Opposition calls for common sense, calls for sanity. Let's not make the same mistake, let's look at it holisticly, we tried to contribute so that it wouldn't be unfair to everyone's common interests, but you did. I wanted to fix it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0399par0245	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Point taken. Yes, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0400par0248	Sir, I've been thinking about what I'd like to say, Mr. Ozcan said, "You've given up." You've given up. I want to talk to you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0401par0249	He'll say he didn't.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0399par0250	Now, members of lawmakers, you said so, and Mr. Yeniçeri has made that clear. But what are you going to say that you're not deflecting?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0400par0251	I'll tell you I didn't.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0399par0252	Well, go ahead and tell me you didn't.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0400par0255	Thank you. I was really thinking about what kind of taunt I could take from Mr. Ozcan's precious speech. Thank you, you've finally done it. He said, "You've done it." So he gave me the benefit of the doubt. And I'll say I didn't. Of course, when you said "Muhafet" why did Mr. Ozcan take it all on himself? Does he have an opinion that he represents all the opposition? That's out of the question.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0402par0258	Call it the main opposition.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0400par0259	Of course, there were three opposition parties there.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0402par0260	Then explain.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0400par0261	The three of them had representatives. They talked.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0403par0262	But from what I said... there are reports, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0400par0263	If I could talk for hours, if I could talk for hours, if I could just get them to think about things like this, I'd understand that Mr. Ozcan was a little touchy. But I didn't mention the name, and in general, I mentioned the opposition. Moreover, they were an answer to my objection to the appointment of teachers in this classroom, which I gave to the national training staff, along with a test. If you didn't say so, you wouldn't have to be offended anyway, my dear brother Ozcan. But you've spoken on this occasion, and you've given me an opportunity. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0404par0267	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Hamzacebi, what's in it for you?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0405par0269	Mr. President, sir, this is...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0406par0270	All the opposition has pointed out to us.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0404par0271	Now, members of the law, Mr. Yeniçeri, you said it yourself, the matter is closed. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0407par0273	He meant us.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0408par0274	Mr. Orator made a general assessment in his previous speech, saying "Muhafefet" and that's why Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri took his word, and you promised him because of the bullying. Mr. Bostanci has come out again. Why was Mr. Yeniçeri taken over? There are three opposition parties. I didn't mean that party, the National Movement Party. He made an assessment. That leaves two opposition parties. One of them is the Republican People's Party. I'd like a word from you, sir, for bullying our group. Mr. Nur Serter will speak, sir, our Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0409par0275	Sir, what did I say about teasing? There's nothing offensive about it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0408par0276	Sir, it's obvious, it's obvious...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0409par0277	It's just that I object to the appointment of teachers in the classroom, which I have here, which is in the records, so that's the objection.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0410par0278	Now, the issue is very clear, Mr. Lawmakers, but... Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0411par0281	What happened? But where did he go?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0410par0282	But that's what happens when you're used to picking on people like that. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0411par0284	What language is that? What did he say?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0412par0286	Yes, thank you. I asked him, "Is it fair to appoint teachers who will leave the classrooms without putting them in KPSS, with more than 300,000 teachers waiting to be appointed at the door, on the condition of the oral examination, and on the condition of staying in the same place for four years? " It's not, it's not fair. It is only fair if you make this appointment by receiving the KPSS, just as the teacher expected to appoint them 300,000. I made the difference between the two. No one can equate the oral examination with the verbal and non-KPSS. Everyone participated in the commission, Mr. Secretary, in what I said about how unreliable oral exams were. You've all nodded at my samples. Therefore, the written or oral test has been changed to the written and oral test. So, please, don't use what I say out of context. If we had an attitude towards school teachers, we wouldn't object to the fact that these teachers are being exploited, especially in private schools, on a lower salary than public teachers. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0413par0291	Thank you, Mr. Serker. Izmir MP Oğuz Oyan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0414par0298	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, in fact, the only thing we could talk about here today was early general elections. So you think, if there's a major corruption in a country, what should the government and the judiciary do? Go for it. So, if the government is involved, the prime minister is involved in corruption, what should be done in democracies? It's resigning and clearing the way for judgment. It's not enough for four ministers to resign. The four ministers resign all at once -- and there are others -- is directly responsible for the government's head. So we're supposed to be talking about an early election here. We're supposed to be talking about a government that resigned, a provisional government. So today we're here to see the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0415par0299	Almost there, almost there.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0414par0300	No, going to the resigning elections... we can't make laws here like nothing ever happened, we can't discuss such arrangements here as if nothing ever happened. My dear friends, the Prime Minister does not deny the negotiations between him and his son. The Prime Minister doesn't call the audio recordings "dublaj", I'll point out. Dublage, which means that someone else has imitated my voice. He's talking about montaj, he's not saying dublaj. He's saying something else -- once again, indirectly, in the law -- that even the Kripto talks have been heard. • Kripto is made between two people who have two crypto phones and have a record. If the Prime Minister gave his son a cryptophone, he committed a crime once. It can only happen in the Prime Minister, in the Chief of Staff, in the President. He spoke with the assurance that he was on a cryptophone, and that's a deal. He says: "So how does it happen?" He brings the whole matter to this: there's unconscionable listening, there's unauthorized listening. Even the cryptophone was bugged. It's a confession. This is a confession, my dear friends. That's what we have to go over. Today, Mr. Minister of Justice says: "We don't need technical analysis, we already know that it's a montage." So a lawyer friend of ours, who understands from the other side, how can a lawyer who doesn't look at evidence get a degree, how can he be a Minister of Justice? Dear friends, this can't happen. This needs to be proven, it needs to be cleared in front of the court. Logs must be requested from the Turkish Communications Presidency. On that day, images of the movement in front of the Prime Minister's house in Istanbul must be presented here. So after that phone was gone, what was taken out of the trucks after the command was given? These images must be seen by us and judgment, my dear friends. You can't be cleared of that, you can't be cleared of that. My dear friends, look, the Prime Minister is dragging your party down with him today. It's not just your party that's costing you dignity and altitude.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0416par0304	What if you're so sure of something?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0414par0305	You're making Turkey lose dignity and altitude, you're bringing Turkey down. (HPP applause) We feel sorry for it, my dear friends, we feel sorry for Turkey, not for you, but for Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0416par0306	You must be working with the people who made the tape, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0414par0307	The Prime Minister and the government have lost their legitimacy, my dear friends. Today, if you continue to support him, you will become a shareholder of all responsibility as the AKP Group. So, here we are with some laws that will consolidate this power, and not only that, but tomorrow the MIT Law, the HSYK, the Internet... as we have seen with all these examples, we are faced with a power that is facing the construction of the tyranny regime, taking legal regulations to protect itself, not only by making evidence decisions on December 17th, but by overturning an entire police force, disqualifying 6,000 law enforcement members, destroying the judiciary, not just enough and not enough, but with a whole legal arrangement. Are you going to defend such power? In democracies, parties invite their presidents to resign, that's the minimum requirement of democracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, but I assure you this term is over. No one can afford to get it back on its feet. The AKP era here is now in the history of all its sins, not legally, but in fact, it's over. From now on, it's coercion. Don't push it. Look, let me get this straight. In parliament, yesterday, our President-General stopped speaking here, so even on closed circuit, let alone broadcast. Today, the Speaker of Parliament makes a statement, saying: "The assembly broadcasts from 3:00 p.m. to 1900 p.m., but not outside. " He does not speak the truth. Yesterday, I saw the Prime Minister's speech -- I was in my house -- before I left -- in my house -- and we were watching it on TRT 3 ▪. Would a lie suit the Speaker? And I'll tell you something else, the Speaker says: "The 28th article of the Constitution is freedom of the press." Here's your president's speech, already, look, Congress has only given two televisions outside TV, which means he's not getting credit. Is it because he's not getting credit, or is it because he's not getting credit, with pool media, with auction media, with digested media, that power to make the media into a toy, to make it a switch monkey? Could it be the work of a Speaker who lives in this country not knowing? It's an embarrassing comment. Now, my dear friends, let's come to the arrangement you're trying to legalize here at jet speed. Here, this bill is a major dispossession to shut down the classrooms once in a while. Those who spoke here before me said, "If we had been in power for the past two years, we would have done so." Then I ask you, why are you taking tens of thousands of people to eat and change titles? Now, you're going to make new assignments, you're going to be out of line. You will appoint the principals of the school, not the government, but now the governor of power, to the superiors. Besides, you'll leave control to the county authorities, so cook it yourself, rose garden without thorns. There are two kinds of injustices: one: it's not fair to those teachers you put to KPSS, which you exempt from KPSS. Two: injustice amongst themselves. Because from the moment you took the oral exam, all the ways of pleasure have been opened. There is no written test, but the oral exam is for the teachers here, the oral exam, so let's get our boys and our girls, and let's not take the others. This is his attitude. This can't be a law-state procedure. I'll tell you something else, don't send students abroad with Law 1416... so I went abroad with that program and got a Ph.D. We went with the written exam, only with the written exam, and now you bring it in writing and verbally. And that's open favor when you don't bring the word along with it, and you don't put the weight on it, so the gates of favor are open. Amanna, if you're a power to be trusted, all your efforts so far have shown that you can't be trusted.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0417par0317	People trust us, people trust us.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0418par0318	Ask Moğultay about it, Moğultay! Ask him, ask him!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0414par0319	My dear friends, the House cannot be the instrument of power's revenge operations. You're making the House a means of revenge by shutting down this classroom, you can't use a legislature like this, you can't use it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0419par0320	We've fought off all kinds of blows.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0414par0321	This bill, once, protects mid-school and higher education exams, and even during AKP rule, has increased the number of these exams, which have increased dramatically; there have been numbers given here, hundreds of them, other figures, 80 hundred percent, the lowest number 80 percent -- by which, of course, there are classrooms that work, without adding the things that are illegal, without adding them. My dear friends, you're always increasing these tests. On one hand, I'm going to shut down the Dershane..... could it be like this? A system without exams is possible. Starting with the 2007 elections, we gave a program on how to get into a university without a test. The system without exams is possible, but before you do so, a process that is contrary to the Constitution is not likely to happen because of the closing of the classroom at that time. When you've already eliminated these exams, the need itself decreases, market law, supply demand, and they're already closed. To not do so... you can't come to us today with something that lacks the Constitution, without scientific grounds, without a bill that lacks all right. Thus, my dear friends, it is possible to get rid of it here, only by destroying the need for classrooms. On the other hand, as a condition of transformation, we have to go to the Ministry of National Education to sue and to things... which are completely outside the legal system, a whole concept of pleasure. Thus, it is also related to the creation of a whole new exploitation system -- which has led to labor exploitation -- in private classrooms, where education will now be converted into private schools -- to minimum wage fees. I mean, it only shows the identity and feedback of the power itself, which is destroying the educational system of the republic's most important achievements, evacuating the teaching union, reducing the powers of the Board of Education and Discipline. Therefore, we have to call it 'dur'.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0420par0325	Thank you, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0326	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0420par0327	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0328	Mr. orator, in his speech, in particular with our Group President, in connection with our Prime Minister, that is, the indirect confession of these actions, as he confessed to his crime, he used very meaningless statements. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0420par0329	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0333	Thank you, Mr. President. Very dear friends, since December 17th, indeed, with certain claims that we do not deserve from this bench...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0422par0335	Yeah, what more do you deserve?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0336	...there's an entire group of doodles...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0423par0337	You're covering everything up, so...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0338	...and almost an effort to open the legitimacy of power to debate corruption.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0423par0339	What else are we gonna discuss here?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0340	But rest assured, with the survival of our people, your efforts will be in vain.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0424par0341	You'll learn your lesson!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0342	There's a very important, very beautiful saying: "The thief thinks everyone's a thief." (Applause in the PATI rows, CHP rows) You take a look in the mirror, look in the mirror, look in the past, you'll see who's a thief.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0424par0343	Have fear of God.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0425par0344	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0345	The main opposition is a serious failure to produce politics.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0426par0346	Look in a dictionary, Yavuz suppresses the thief's host.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0425par0347	Exactly.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0348	The main opposition, which is not interested in any of society's issues, which does not contribute to the solution of any of society's problems, which cannot produce projects for the future, unfortunately, is trying to do politics here with a set of materials on gossip, on newspaper clippings, on a set of materials that he has assumed. I'm sorry, folks, people don't buy it, people don't buy it. You may have collected power over the tape within the party...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0427par0349	It's not a tape, it's an investigation file.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0350	...you may have changed your president over the tape, but don't try to change that power over the tape, don't try.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0427par0351	It's not a tape, it's not a tape, it's an investigation file.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0352	This people will stop it, this people's common sense will prevent it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0428par0353	What are you going to do when it's legally documented?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0421par0354	We, dear friends, come with this nation, we go with the people. And the Word and the Decision belong to the people, and the Word (of Allah) is fulfilled, and the Word (of Allah) is fulfilled. Look, you're talking about early elections. How many choices have we made? How many times have you always said "chosen" from this bench? So far, you've always said "choice" and every election we've been in, it's grown by increasing the AK PARTY vote. (CHP rows) Why did it grow? Because of your politics, and as long as you're doing this politics, the AK PARTI will grow into power, and we don't need to do anything else. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0429par0358	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0430par0359	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0429par0360	Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0430par0361	Clearly, at the beginning of his speech, the thief considers everyone a thief. It's not just an insult and an insult, it's also a crime that requires reproach. I want an answer.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0431par0363	You've been taken from everything since December 17th.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0432par0364	Why did you take it upon yourself?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0433par0365	You want a word?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0434par0366	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0433par0367	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0434par0369	My dear friends, a group of vice presidents will know their place.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0435par0371	You know your place!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0434par0372	I've been acting as group president here, and I've never insulted anyone.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0435par0373	You will know your place.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0434par0374	I've been here for 12 years. I've never insulted anyone.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0436par0375	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0434par0376	It's a shame, and it's a thing to be blamed for. Look, I'll tell you something: Prime Minister, do you remember what TeRGEV said when he discovered that $100 million had been transferred to him? Ha, he said it's not corruption if there's no money in the state's vault.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0437par0378	You don't know the numbers, you don't know the money!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0438par0379	That's what he said.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0434par0380	My dear friends, would there be a greater confession of corruption? Is there any promise of deception greater than that? Much of the corruption is done without a penny from the government's vault; I am a professor of public finance. In public finances, see, the highest amount of zoning corruption is done without a penny from the state's vault, with urban rants being pulled in a row...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0439par0381	Look, you're good at this.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0434par0382	... Public land is made by a commonwealth, a commonwealth, just as it will be done now in this law, as the public property will be handed over. Therefore, today the Prime Minister has agreed to that speech. I mean, even a defensive position is a circusatin when you're singing. So, therefore, the Prime Minister is in an untenable position today.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0440par0383	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0434par0384	By defending him, you're dragging the whole country into the same mess. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0441par0386	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0442par0387	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. On behalf of him, Ankara MP Mustafa Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0443par0394	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my personal opinion on Bill 562. I salute your high council with love and respect. Dear lawmakers are summing up the law that is currently on the way out, the closing of the classrooms, the employment of the employees at a educational institution, the exchange of jobs and support for private schools in some way by the Ministry of National Education bureaucrats. First of all, I'd like to tell you that even though loyalty suits a man, it's ilrah. He is a helper of the righteous God. He says Ziya Pasha. Do you, out of nowhere, feel sincere about closing the classrooms that have been asked to be closed as a result of a recent sense of threat for 11 years with no threat and no danger, or do you now seem to be discussing that, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact? I'd like to ask you a second question: Mr. Minister and you, who have already designed this law, discussed it, debated it, researched it, and then decided to make such a law in the interest of our country and our national education, or did I ask my minister, or did I tell him, or did I tell him to do this to a minister, who knows more about it in agriculture, who knows everything, who knows more about it in national education, who knows about it, who knows about it? There are laws being passed here so far, but I see with regret that you, our deputies, even our commissioners, have doubts, doubts, and they have no knowledge. Now, a law is being passed, and the next day comes a concern about this law: ▪ Sir, it should have been misunderstood, it shouldn't have been. • Mr. Commissioner of the Commission says, "Sir, if the wrongs are seen, the harms will be rectified." (Dear MPs, in 11 years of power, what stability will we talk about when five Minister of National Education changes, and who will we tell about this country's future, and who will we deliver its future to? (Applause from MHP rows) If we need continuity and need it as a state institution, let's think about how you plan to train as AKP power and how we should maintain this trust if our young are entrusted to you. So let's agree on this, and come, and we'll sit down with you and think about it. In a group of 40 professors, can you tell me, for God's sake, which one of our professors stepped in and contributed to this education law? Gentlemen, lawmakers, when this law didn't need to be passed yesterday, if it needed such a law to discipline someone, to correct someone, to prosecute someone, or to get revenge on someone, then it's not moral in the first place. The future of millions of children of this nation cannot be victimised by the adoption of an immoral law. What I'd like to bring to your attention here is how can an institution, in a way, be completely canceled? If we have to entrust the country's future as a national education to our young people, I'm asking you: which idea, which ideal, which goal we've taught these students, which truth we've taught these students, and now it's just -- there's no agenda -- let's just shut down the classrooms, let's close these classrooms, let's solve them -- so I ask you, where have you been for eleven years? If these classrooms were a problem for us for 11 years, why didn't you try to lift them at the point where we tried to do something like this before December 17th, as a product of a bunch of clairvoyants? Dear Regents, this is not a puzzle board. Education is an institution that determines the fate of this country, even its destiny. So, if we try to get a little perspective on this, then we'll think about what we need to do. I'm telling you from here, Mr. Commissioner has just stated: weren't you the one who sat in protocol yesterday when all the classrooms were invited to their meetings? Weren't you the one who went into the photo contest with them, waved to the media, and somehow gave away a smile? Now, how did the classrooms suddenly get worse, called poo and boo? Here, of course, the classroom will have to be shut down, or somehow its alternative productions may be needed. So, first, you prepare a level of education that won't be needed in the classroom, and people show a will not to send their children to these classrooms, and then the classrooms wake up on their own. Mr. Commissioner, they said: "I didn't go to the classroom. We didn't go to the classroom. But your father died of hunger. They said, "Did the poor find it and not eat it?" Now, I'm asking you: was there a classroom then? But then education was like education, and everyone thought education was education. But today, the partnership between the two, the parallel between the two, has made the classroom a need for education and education. So, as responsible for this country, as long as we have the title of Ministry of National Education, let's figure out why these educational institutions have failed, what needs to be done to make it successful, and then, after that, wherever the classrooms are going to go, no one will blame anyone. I want to point out one more thing: the lecturers of the classrooms will be tested with oral examinations. Now, do you place your hand on your conscience, or on your temple, and on the assignments that you want to make, have you ever been able to save yourself from emotionalism, such as the search for origins and ideology? If any of you have the right answer to that, let him come in here and say it clearly. I'm a representative of this country, as a member of this Assembly, with a license and will, and I believe that you have knowledge, and when I offer to some friends of yours, sir, who I believe will represent that office with dignity, honor in its place in its place, if the ideological aspect is very clear, please don't tell us this; we have no chance of defending it. I'm asking you, did they come from outer space? Aren't these the kids of this nation?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0444par0405	Easy, easy!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0443par0406	Didn't they grow up in these educational institutions? Are they more retarded than you're suggesting? Are they betraying this state as the children of this nation? If you, then, place your hand on your conscience, and consider what you are paying attention to in your assignments, remember that we should rightly have doubts. A person's position is in his mind. They say it's in his mind. We are offended by the appointments made so far, and we feel that if this is not a test of equal criteria in the future, it will not conform to the principles of rights, justice and righteousness, and therefore, people cannot be considered equally. Dear MPs, right now, as our Ministry of National Education, we are all responsible for the future of this country, but we need to pay attention to one thing. Now, look, the Ministry is changing the entire staff with this law. Why? Because with the laws we've changed before, we've accepted the so-called political wish for construction as a major win. Isn't that what happened at the Ministry of Religious Affairs? Isn't that what happened at the Department of Agriculture? Didn't the Ministry of Education, Economics, Science have similar ones? I ask you, how did you make up for those people's losses? In the three-day world, you may think of some self-fulfilling solutions, but tomorrow, when you appear before God in a world that you believe is eternal, you will have no Prime Minister to protect you, no minister to protect you, and no one to protect you, I entrust you all to God.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit08spe0445par0409	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0445par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 562. The commission and the government are in place. Now we're going to question-answer. Twenty minutes, ten minutes to questions, ten minutes to answers. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0446par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with this bill, the upper bureaucracy of national education is completely changing. Again, national education managers, national training assistants, school principals' duties are being terminated. Why did you need such an application? Is it an attempt by the ministry to rescind a group altogether and to get them to come back with a court order, or did you need it because you needed it? My second question, again, is that the condition of the students who didn't win college is not clear. For example, if the dream of a student who took the exam last year, who didn't get the part he wanted, who got the first 10,000, is to study at Hacettepe University Medical School, will you prepare the student with courses at the community training center? He doesn't have money, he doesn't have private lessons. Do you consider that unfair? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0447par0011	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0448par0013	Thank you. Nabi Avcı, who sits during the government, is a special task force to kill Turkish education. He came at 4+4+4, -- he was the head of the committee -- and he passed over 20 of those items in the commission without negotiation, and he brought them here because no one asked for words when we asked for them. A black mark on the history of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Plus, he just brought it in and he's closing up private classrooms. They already want molla training, madrasa training in Turkey, to convert education into this. Here they teach math, physics, chemistry in private classrooms. His goal is to create a youth in Turkey who is completely uneducated, uneducated, unthinking, uneducated youth who separates the students from science, technology. So I don't stoop to asking this person questions.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0449par0016	And he doesn't dare answer you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0450par0017	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Topcu...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0451par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, if the classrooms you've converted, we think you've closed, go to court tomorrow and earn compensation, will you, as Prime Minister and Minister, pay them out of your pocket? Another is that you are considering funding students who will go from classrooms to private schools; is there a plan to provide financial support, how is it planned? Another question is, if the school has completed four years of mandates of principals and vice principals, their term of office will be over. Mr. Secretary, in your opinion, what is the average mandate of nearly 16,000, we think, about 100,000 executives? If it's ten years and more, how do you expect these people to go back to teaching? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0452par0024	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0453par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you will appoint the school teachers without KPSS. You don't even have the criteria for the oral exams you're going to use for the appointment. How do you explain this to teachers with KPS scores? How do you plan to manage the chaos of the two-headed appointment system? Another question was that my constituency, Kastamon (Kestamon), was chosen as a pilot's province in education, aimed at a gathering of educational institutions. I want to know where this project is going.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0454par0029	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0455par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've already caused major chaos in national education in Turkey with the law 4+4+4, and his pains continue. The underage group reports that there are serious problems with students going to school. Have you examined how many students didn't start primary school with a report after the 4+4 law was passed? And how do you define justice for yourself as justice that will stand before those students, those teachers, without the KPSS, for six years, when there are still about 200,000 teachers who can't even be assigned to them? This breach of the Constitution is clearly expressed. Do you have any studies on the unassigned teachers?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0454par0033	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0456par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many countries in the world are banned from teaching? Which are these countries? Question two: Why do students go to college prep classes? Question three: what are the reasons that reveal the classrooms? Question four: What is the number of classrooms in Turkey? What number of students go to the school in Turkey? What are the number of teachers working at the school in Turkey? What are the number of staff in the schoolroom in Turkey? How many guardians of the students who went to the school in Turkey have had executions, and what are the number of executive files? The last question is, how many cases are being filed in the classrooms because they're not paid? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0457par0042	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0458par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, can you explain to us how there is a logic to the dismissal of all school principals, assistants, educational principals, without saying, "Successful failure," without looking at the person who has not been questioned? Second: What will happen to the rights of the people who have passed the tests provided by the Ministry of National Education, who have carried the conditions? Doesn't that make people feel guilty? Three: How do you plan to overcome the weakness of governance after this law, in national education? Four: Isn't that an understanding that ignores memory, experience, and savings? Five: This law has still created a major morale disorder and collapse in national education. How do you think you're gonna get through this? Six: When do you plan to do a study, other than discharge, discharge, increase the wages and salaries of the students? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0459par0052	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0460par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, if this bill goes into effect, what's the number of family members you're going to terminate overnight? Have you done any work on the psychology of the cubs in these individuals? I mean, how do you think you're gonna train a kid who's a teacher when his father's a principal? Two, is it true that your government has agreed to close the classrooms during talks with the PKK terrorist organisation? If so, what are the number of students who have been studying at the educational support homes under the control of the CENT? Will these houses be closed with this law? Can you make a statement about this to the Turkish nation? On another subject: What is the total number of staff still working in the classrooms, and what is the distribution of them as teachers and assistant staff? Will you be able to take care of their families, will you be able to afford them? In other words, you're doing an honorary inspector by combining the names of the education inspectors and the ministry inspectors. Are they evening their rights as well?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0461par0059	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0462par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you think by this law, you've removed the freedom of rights according to Article 36 of the Constitution by canceling certain staffs? In the developed countries of the world, teachers are among high-paying public officials -- you claim to have made our country strong in the economy and in everything -- but our teachers have to look for a second job because their wages are not enough, and they are deeply upset when they meet their students in their second job. And I'm a teacher's child... are you going to correct the teachers' salaries, and really, as you claim, our country is a developed country, will you raise it to the salary level of teachers in developed countries? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0463par0065	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Danishoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0464par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the pedagogic formations of 30,000 people to be made in December were made in January. As a result of these installations, an empty seating for about 4,000 people. According to Article 5/11 of fundamental and methodical forms of pedagogic formation, additional placement can be made when required. However, the SEC announced two days ago that there would be no additional deployment, suggesting that there would be no time limit and no healthy formalisation training. Will you make an effort to change that decision? This statement is looked forward to by 37,000 people.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0463par0069	Thank you, Mr. Danishoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0465par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. More or less one of the fundamental issues common to the questions, even if not all, is the employment of teachers and other employees who are currently serving in the classrooms, and the injustices that can be given by other teacher candidates in a different way of choosing. Let me first present the numbers: the number of classrooms according to our latest figures is 3.550, the number of students continuing to the classrooms is 1,220,000, the number of teachers serving in the classrooms is 53 thousand, the number of assistant staff, the number of staff in the non-education category is 14,000. Now, the concerns about the integration of these textbook teachers, their trainers into the National Ministry of Education system are justified concerns. It's also the measure that we've developed about him, but first it's useful to emphasize again how to choose them. You know, our friends stressed in their talks, and the classrooms usually and for the most part don't hire these teachers on permanent insurance; they usually employ them with eight months, ten months of contracts, periodically renewed, even if they're renovated to get rid of severance demands. Thus, we stressed that even though our bill was cut off, those who met the requirement for six years of insurance when it was collected could be employed, considering the needs of the Ministry of National Education, and this would be done with a test. We're waiting for those teachers who will be appointed or assigned to do so to reverse the claim that they've violated the rights of the unassigned teachers, and that's our calculations. If the bill becomes legal and the process of private schooling is done the way we predicted, then these people will continue to be employed in new institutions where they have become, in other educational institutions that have previously been a school, but now have become another educational institution, especially private schools. In addition, with the increase of private schooling in this way, hopefully, there will be a new employment and employment expansion for non-assigned teachers, and for private schools outside of public schools. So rather than sharing a very limited public request, we predict the development of employment opportunities for the private sector, private initiative, private schools, teacher needs, teachers in this sector, and other teachers waiting for the appointment. Another common issue is concerns about the management levels at the Ministry of National Education, and particularly the school administrators, school principals and assistants. I'll give you the numbers on him first because there's a lot of unsanitary information going around both here and outside the House, in public, in the media; there are claims that over 100,000, 100,000 school administrators are going to change. The real situation is that there are 25,855 school principals in our ministry, 5,849 vice principals, 42,181 assistant principals, 73,885 educational institutions managers. When we evaluate them according to the service years, and we predict an arrangement for those who have been executives for more than four years, in this case the principal of the school -- less than four years, not four -- is 9.134; our number of school principals who have served more than four years is 16.721. These are the assistant principals, 3,522, who have served less than four years, who have served more than four years, 2,327. In our friends, who are in the major position of assistant manager, who have served for less than four years, 21,359, who have served for more than four years, 20,822; so in total, our number of executives who have served for less than four years -- manager, vice principal, assistant manager -- 34,015, and our number of managers who have served more than four years -- 39,870. These have years of transcripts, and I'm not telling you not to waste your time. The large majority gather around you for ten years, but by the way, we have managers or executives who have served for thirty years, 20 years, 25 years. Now, first of all, I find it helpful to emphasize this principled attitude of ours once again. Our total number of executives with the potential to be affected by this arrangement -- the manager, the vice principal, the number of chief assistants -- 39,870. When we make this arrangement, we don't predict that all of these will be replaced by others by the end of the 2013-2014 school year, which is June 2014, which is not possible. Well, then, where does such an arrangement come from? One: As you pointed out, with the 4+4+4 arrangement, with the reduction of the school species, and with the regulations provided by this bill, the institutional culture in our educational system is making a serious change. So, we need a structure to create this new culture, but there's also this side of it, so we're predicting that each of our schools is being evaluated as a separate corporate personality, each of them is being evaluated as an academic infrastructure success, academic performance as well as physical infrastructure, human infrastructure, and that an institution can be measured where a school is coming from and where it's going. What does that mean? It means that our executives' performance will be evaluated, that it will be evaluated. If we can do that, we'll have a four-year term of service... in the previous practice, there's no four-year term in legal infrastructure, so once you're appointed a manager, there's an application that can be put into office without a deadline. But with this arrangement, we want our institutions to be quantifiable in their success or failure and therefore the responsibilities of the institution's executives. That's what we want to do. That's part of the job. And another arrangement that supports this, for example, is that the SBS exam has been lifted and the SBS exam is done from the center of six classes in the 8th grade, and we're thinking of expanding it. Hopefully, when we make it measurable in all of our secondary schools and especially in all of our upper secondary schools and all of our classes and classes, then we'll both be teaching at the classroom level and our teachers at the school level...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0466par0079	Mr. Secretary, you don't answer questions.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0465par0080	What am I answering?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0466par0081	The Constitution states that you have the right to sue.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0465par0082	We'll get there. That's what you're asking...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0466par0084	You don't answer these things, you've been telling stories!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0465par0085	So when we make performance measurable, the change of executives will be based on rational, measurable objective measures. That's part of the job. On the other side...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0467par0086	We're out of time, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0465par0087	I'll tell you what... excuse me for a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0467par0088	Okay. I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0468par0091	There's also a legal problem behind this arrangement. That is, according to Article 657 of State Officers Act 657, it is the second duty to be a school administrator, director, vice principal, assistant assistant, principal, teacher's duty. These executive duties are the second task, such as the chief of medicine, deanship at universities, etc., is the principal teaching. As a matter of fact, the Constitutional Court's testimony on this issue is to consider them to be considered to be the second task in line with 657, but the administrative courts are ruling on different interpretations of this issue in serious confusion; some interpret them as the right of the acquisitor and the right of the earned staff. So, we don't even have the opportunity to make a change in management for very objective reasons, for quantifiable reasons, according to today's legislation...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0469par0093	Will their rights change, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0468par0094	It won't change. In other words, this kind of assignment is the mandate required by State Officers Act 657. So, the arrangement we've made...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0469par0095	You've got it all mixed up, Minister, and you won't get out of it. We wonder how the sixth minister will do it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0470par0096	What will you do when they go to the ECHR?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0471par0097	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0472par0098	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0470par0099	What will you do if the classrooms go to the ECHM? There's nothing you can do.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0473par0100	It's not a liquidation, it's the evaluation of our executives with rational criteria, and it's a reward, and it's not a violation of the legislation. Plus, it's not 100 grand, it's 39, and the principal's 16. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0474par0102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0475par0104	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0474par0105	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the decision is enough, it's accepted. Now, let's begin negotiations on chapter one. The first part covers the 1st to 15th article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on chapter one, Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0476par0112	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the first chapter of the National Education Basic Law on behalf of my group. I salute your high council. Mr. Secretary, education unions, education-work, education-SEN and all our other unions are currently in the area and on strike. The reason for their strikes is that this bill, which you have made the most comprehensive changes in the field of national education, will cause great chaos in national education, and that this law, however, is a law of revenge, a bill that you've been holding arms and arms and hands for twelve years now, is a plan of revenge that you've described as "Pensylvania" (Pensylvania). Indeed, after December 17th, there was a generation in Turkey. The spear doesn't fit in the sack, and our people are asking us, and everyone's asking, our president asked at the group meeting, did he put $700,000 in a parallel state on Mr. Secretary's arm? Sir, did the parallel government put money deposit boxes in the minister's child's house? The People's Bank put $4.5 million in the Governor-General's house? These questions need answers. We can't cover it up by taking out prosecutors, keeping the cops, yelling, yelling. Yeah, well, we certainly believe in the purity of the law, never, ever, but it's the Department of Justice's job to prepare the conditions for the truth to come out. We need to get the facts out there, get the evidence out there. Unfortunately, at the point where we're here, why can't Turkey still go after them by believing in its judgment, its law, as clearly as the European states are being discussed in Turkey? He wants answers to these questions. At this point, the Ministry of National Education, teachers, students, parents have all the problems in the world; are classrooms on Turkey's agenda, Mr. Secretary? In Turkey's agenda for 12 years, you see, I'm going to give you striking examples of 4+4, only of national education legislation. For the first time in the history of Turkey, you have organised national education with Article 44 under the State of the Law No. 652. It's something that's no example in the world. You took off with the Law on Duty and Organizations of an entire National Ministry of Education, with no discussion, no discussion, just by the law. Now, I'm going to bring it in the same way to bag the law-- look, I'm going to give you an example-- 22 changes in national education laws in 12 years, 22 times in 12 years. By 2002, 35 regulations were issued in Turkey, 87 regulations were issued only during your time. So, the Ministry of National Education, not the Ministry of National Education, has become the ministry of national pleasure, and every minister who comes has passed the law as he pleases. Look, about 4+4+4, I just asked you, and I'm telling you from here 555,000 students who are in their pre-school education age, one of the four pre-recorded students who didn't show up to school, didn't sign up, took a report or something. Again, in this system, the system you brought in, the number of girls who didn't attend middle school has increased from 16,000 to 37,000. Again, the number of students who did not attend school after the eighth grade increased by 50,000. 1.111 general high school closed in 2012-2013. Again, the number of Imam orator high schools with 537... has come up and the student... Not to mention the physical inadequacies, the teachers have already become incumbents at the same time. To subcontractors, the school's cleanup... even schools have become uncleanable. Now, look, Mr. Secretary, we need over 100,000 classrooms in our schools right now. Did you receive this physical inadequacy? The average number of students per class is 21 in OECD countries, 46 in İstanbul, 30 in Balıkesir. Turkey's average is way, way above that. I mean, you're still... 257,000 of our students are being taught in united classes, our children. Now, in our investment table in education, this is 4+4+4, this is our investment table. I won't come to the teacher's poverty anyway. European countries, OECD countries... look, the number of poverty explained by TUİK is $3.100, and teachers' salaries are 2,200. So, about 400,000 of our teachers who work in Turkey work below the poverty line. That's what our teachers are willing to do. 200,000 teachers keep sending us messages to work on the poverty line -- his parents, his family, his descendants, his sop. This is the picture in education in Turkey. Look, Mr. Secretary, have you ever brought the educational system, productivity, transparency, scientificity, to Turkey's agenda, instead of closing the classrooms? No, you didn't. Our kids are like racehorses. Of course, we, as a father, as a parent, as a parent, I don't accept Saturday, as a parent, that my son spends his Sundays in school, when he can study art, when he can study art with his friends, when he can study with his friends in social fields, but that's not the way to close the classrooms. Are you able to provide the same educational conditions and qualities in our schools, in Hakkari, in İzmir? Look, the precious MPs were only in the classrooms of our students in İzmir, İstanbul, Ankara. In Turkey's prestigious schools, law schools, political faculty, medical schools, privileged students. Who are they? Those who lived in Istanbul, those who lived in Ankara, those who lived in İzmir, because they were the only ones who benefited from the privilege of the school. Right now, at work, in the system, in the education system, even a lot of the lessons there would be wasted. No English teacher, no history teacher, no math teacher. I mean, parents miss teachers. I remember, in a high school in Adana, I couldn't speak English, I was studying English. Is that a thing? They're still valid, see, they're not fantasies, just to set an example. Go to the mountains of Giresun today, where many high school English classes include gym teacher and gym teacher. Did you provide these? No, you didn't. Now, you think you can get up and fix the system by shutting down the classrooms like you've provided equal, qualified, scientific training all over Turkey. No, it's definitely not true, you're wrong. Yes, let's fix the warped education system together, but the method of this is to get angry at someone, not to close the schools, not to take revenge on someone, but to make the equality of opportunity, which is broken in education in Turkey, is very important. Tomorrow, rich family children -- there's already a privileged class in Turkey -- live in villas, pools, teachers come to their homes, mathematicians, English speakers; they're already privileged. But how will the student whose parents work for minimum wage compete with him? This kid's private math teacher doesn't come to his house, he doesn't come to his English teacher. This child's mother, his father, after all, goes to the cleaners, but he sends his child back to the school. Why? Let him not have my fate. At least my child is making a sacrifice to get into a good college, get into a public school, get a job and a job. Come on, let's go over this one more time. In fact, the parallel state is being punished, while you punish all our poor children in Turkey, our family, our children in need of education. Your fellow teachers, who are clearly contrary to the Constitutional Laws, who have taken a test of their own, become principals, managers for years, I will not go into destroying the position of director overnight, in the morning, he will return from the Constitutional Court, and there are many examples. But Mr. Secretary, come, don't lead Turkey into a second chaos. I say we review this once again with all our training academys, with our unions, to actually create freedom, productivity, science, and productive youth in Turkey, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0477par0126	Thank you, Mr. Havut. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0478par0130	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy on part one of the first chapter of the Charter for Change in some Laws No. 562. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, the biggest common characteristics of all law proposals discussed in the General Assembly over the past two months may be that they are antidemocratic, they are non-participate, they are directed to single-handedly collect all authority and decision-making mechanisms, they constitute violations of constitutional and universal law principles. This law proposal, prepared by the government, envisions various changes in the National Education Basic Law we discussed, is among the proposed laws we just counted. Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out a few points in my speech specifically about the practice of a verbal test, which is often pronounced from the first clause of the proposal to the last, which sounds like an aesthetic concept. The National Ministry of Education is planning to act in the critical process in which the critical decision-making mechanisms need to be run, such as "the election of students who will be sent out of the country" and "the appointment of the Aday teachers in the drafts of staffs" and "the appointment of teachers who will lose their jobs by the closure of the classrooms" mentioned in Articles 2, 3 and 4. Dear lawmakers, the oral examination commission, according to the proposal, will consist of 1 president elected by the Ministry and 2 main members. If we translate, the Minister of National Education will conduct the oral exams. Secondly, the standardized test and oral exam averages will be taken into account with the weights to be determined by the Ministry. According to this statement, the Minister of National Education will decide whether the score averages will be calculated, making a regulation on whether the written test or the oral exam will be a key score. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that verbal testing will be the cover of cartoon magazines, an arrangement that will bring down the dissolution of the educational system, humiliate Turkey in the international community, and in particular to reset the trust of educators and students, and, in general, all citizens of justice, justice, rights, integrity, the Ministry of National Education, government. It is said in the proposal of the law that no recording system regarding the oral exam is used. The oral examination is not mandatory to prepare questions and answers in advance. Dear lawmakers, imagine a test that will determine any citizen or child's student career, career, future career. The Minister will choose the three-man commission to take this test. There will be no need to keep a record of this test, and there will be no need to prepare questions and answers in advance. Dear lawmakers, if there's not going to be a record of the oral exam, who's to say if that test was taken? How do you know who's asking who, who's answering who? How will it be known who answered what question correctly, who answered the wrong answer, and what the score was based on? How can one prove that if one is wronged? Dear lawmakers, there is no obligation to prepare questions beforehand." It's called. What will the exam commission ask when they meet the person who will take the exam, if there are no predetermined questions? Who can vouch for the question he's asking, which is intended to determine his integrity to the mission? How will this be audited for oral tests that will not be recorded? I'd like to ask the Minister: We submitted a written question motion to the Ministry of National Education in November 2013 regarding these scores. In this question motion, we said that students who study in minority schools and students who are exempt from the religious culture and ethics course at public public schools are being denied the right to enter the test in equal opportunities, short-term and long-term rights losses are being opened and are clearly caused to victimization. In this context, what method will be followed when students studying in minority schools and students who are exempt from religious culture and ethics courses will be considered to prevent them from experiencing any loss of rights or victimization? Why is it clear to students who study at minority schools and students who study in formal public schools and are exempt from religious culture and ethics courses that test scores will be disadvantaged while the ministry does not make a statement or correction on the situation of concerned citizens? The Ministry of National Education is able to carry out bureaucratic, political and practical applications that will systematically lead to inequal results for students of different beliefs in a test that will affect the careers of our students by referring to what article of the existing Constitution? The segregational approaches that will lead to loss of rights and victims should be provided without discrimination based on any circumstances, especially on gender, race, color, language, religion, political or other opinions, referred to in Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights." Is it not contradicting his expression? What do you think of the psychosocial traumas that will arise in these children's students based on their feelings of insecurity, exclusion, exclusion from religious culture and ethics at minority schools? Dear lawmakers, yes, those were our questions in our motion. Although four months have passed, the ministry has yet to respond to our side. He didn't answer, but now he's on his way to enforcing a law that will affect all citizens and further deepen unfair practices. The Ministry of National Education expects us and the citizens to rely on the verbal test when they have closed their eyes and closed their ears to cover the victims of a written test, such as the mid-school entrance exam. I'm afraid there's no concrete reason to trust that. Institutions such as the state, the government, the ministry are there to ensure general justice among citizens, and they are long-lived to the extent that they can. In this context, I urge government and ministry officials to consider the principles of universal law while drafting law proposals, reminding them that the current coup is far behind even the Constitution, with their proposals, and I salute the General Assembly with these thoughts again.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0479par0149	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Kütahya MP Alim Ik on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0480par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action about the first chapter of Law Bill 562. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this bill is part of the process of transforming the state of the Republic of Turkey into a party state. Prior to this, we face a bill that envisions changes in judicial regulations, HSYK changes, and now changes in changes in the National Ministry of Education's Agency's Law and some relevant law enforcement laws. It is, of course, the most natural right for all of us to know the cause and where it came from, but so far, Mr. Secretary has made a statement during debates about closing the classrooms just before the December 17th earthquake; he said that only 20 percent of the existing classrooms have the infrastructure to turn them into private schools, but today, Mr. Secretary says that the issue of closing the existing classrooms -- given this lack of infrastructure -- has become a very rapid change, if that's what it means. Now, what about the other 80 percent, what's it gonna be? Time will tell them. A lot of our friends in the last series of questions asked him, he didn't get the answer, and I didn't get it. I wonder if these changes are a very curious response to public opinion during talks between the PKK terrorist organisation and the government during the Oslo process, Mr. Secretary, if they are involved in 90-95 per cent of the talks reached. Although we have repeatedly submitted questions on this subject, unfortunately there are no explanations, but there are no answers, but there are no rebuttals. If so, then with the subject of these classrooms, along with the NEVEL, under his control, should be present. Until today, we expect you to explain to the Supreme Assembly the fact that this is the result of PKK terrorist organisation and AKP talks, as the Education Support Homes have improved rapidly in the past few years since the Oslo process. When we look at the matter from here and are evaluated along with corruption and bribery operations on December 17th, it seems as a result of the fear of information leaking by all the managers and senior executives who are currently in charge of educational institutions and the Ministry of National Education, let's quickly take these in one night and consider the measure after that. Now, as an educator, I would like to ask you: When a father's son, who was a manager until yesterday, a vice principal, asked his father when he went home, why did they take you from the office? What can a father's answer be? These teachers -- which you just gave them -- 39,870 people -- have been appointed directly as teachers for more than four years as managers or managers. Now, I'm asking you: When eight years, ten years, a teacher who's been a vice principal, who's been a vice principal, goes to class, the question of the student in the class is, why are you now being appointed as a teacher? What can the answer be when it happens? As an educator and a person who believes in the importance of pedagogic formation, I think you, as a minister, should have thought of the situation in a teacher's class before we did. You can't exactly explain to the public that this job is a reasonable, logical change without an answer. Tell us clearly that we want to take members of a coup entrepreneur, the gang, who we believe has been launched against the AKP government, which we have defined as parallel construction. We can't separate them, we can take all of you, then we'll take the others. Tell us this. If that's the case, if that's the case, as senior executives who are the creators of the coup or the gang, as the Council of Ministers, you should also think that you should be tried in the future for forming a gang. You've appointed these teachers for 12 years, appointed these directors, appointed these vice principals. Then if they're gangs, you'll have to be tried as the head of this gang. That can't happen. Now, you're shutting down the classrooms. So, how much of these classrooms is property, how much is rent? How much of the people for the rentals, from what banks, how much money did they withdraw? How are you going to pay off their debts? These people have given their lives to this place, and they've come up with a plan for the future. Now you're saying that we don't look at your debt, we don't look at property or rental property, we close it, we close it, we close it... How will these be paid? People are already on the verge of a social explosion because of economic difficulties. A word from this place to the EDUCATION-IM-BIRD-SENISTS. As a yellow union, if you resign teachers from other unions to be appointed assistant managers, if you come to our union, if you become a member, we will make managers, we will make assistant managers. How will you look at the teachers you promised tomorrow? Either you didn't give the right reference as Education-One-SEN, or the government and the Prime Minister drew you, and you became a member of the gang. I think the executives of Education-One-SEN should deal with this much earlier and more seriously than any other union and take the lead in the protest. Almost all of those who were to be removed from this mission became vice principal with the recommendation of this union. Now, if these unionists ignore this, then they need to stop unionizing. You said the managers' rights would not change, which is good, and you're going to give new rights to the new appointees. Who's gonna pay for this? I mean, until you get to that level, the people you're taking from the board are going to continue to get high wages, you're going to make new managers, you're going to pay new salaries, this nation's safe isn't that rich. I mean, if he's gonna be a manager, if you're paying him that high salary, let him continue as manager. He will continue to pay high wages there, and he will pay high wages for the new ones. Well, that's probably something that's going to cause some serious trouble, and I think it should be corrected during these law talks. You can't take back anyone's right of essence. If you have the right, the way of judgment must be clear, and when you return, you must be able to take back that right. On the other hand, by combining the city's education inspectors with the Ministry inspectors, you're gathering them under one name. If they're going to do the same task, the salaries and rights of state education inspectors must be brought to an equal level, and you don't organise it. The county education inspectors will continue to work on a lower salary than the others, but their names will be financial inspectors, training inspectors. This is not a legitimate issue, but a legal challenge. There are a lot of things to talk about, but as a result, we've seen that this law closes the classrooms and closes to 100,000 -- some 79,000 -- and that the loss of human beings is going to be at the top of the nation's education ministry, as well as the members of the cabinet, and I'm telling you that it's helpful to rethink and correct the issue during negotiations. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0481par0170	Thank you, Mr. Light. Amasya MP Avni Erdemir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0482par0174	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the first chapter of Bill 562. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, from the first day we were established as AK PARTI power, we believed that education was the primary element in the development of the country and the welfare of our nation, and we've always produced policies that fit that understanding. See, in 2002, the National Ministry of Education budget was $7.4 billion, while the Ministry of Defense budget was 8.2 billion. Yes, in 2014, the budget for the Ministry of National Education went up to 56 billion dollars, and the National Ministry of Defence budget went up to $22 billion. Yes, in 2002 the budget of the National Ministry of Defence had a number above the budget of the Ministry of National Education. Today, the National Ministry of Education budget is 2.5 times higher than the National Ministry of Defence budget. This is very important in terms of the importance of education given by the AK PARTI power. 420,000 of the 800,000 teachers working today have been appointed again during the AK PARTY rule period. We've rebuilt over 210 thousand classrooms. Our student education numbers have increased, yes, reading rates have increased, and in response, the number of students per class has always fallen down. Today there is a Turkey that has solved the infrastructure problem in education, dear friends. Thank God, we always thought this country would come, and we always said it was an education. Look, from a different point of view of the always criticized PISA test results: There was a difference of 122 points between students with the lowest income group in 2003 and students with the highest income group in our country. In the 2012 PISA results, the difference of 122 points fell to 86. Dear friends, in OECD countries, the difference between students with lower income and upper group students is 90 points. So from 2003 to 2012, we've come to a better place than the OECD countries. In this development, of course, policies based on the equality of opportunity have a very important contribution.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0483par0180	What number are we in, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0482par0181	Dear friends, one of the most controversial issues of the bill we discussed today is the matter of the classrooms. No educator and politician can defend or defend a school-based education, and we see that, too. Is the goal of education to turn students into racehorses and get them to take the lead? If all 16 million of our students had solved 100 percent of the 100 questions, would we have solved the problem of education? Is that the point of education?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0484par0182	Did you just find out, Hajji? Did you just find out? God, you've been running this town for 11 years.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0482par0183	Dear friends, we know that the purpose of education is the discovery of abilities and the development of these talents. We are aware, of course, that we have damaged both our country and the future of our children with a sense of education based on this test and therefore on the classroom.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0485par0184	The AKP is doing the most damage.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0482par0185	Are we going to raise a generation that is trapped between the school and the school, whose abilities have been dulled, who are free of mind, who are free of conscience, who can compete with the world? Is this how we're gonna win the Olympics? Is this how we're going to raise a national level of theater, novelist, storyteller, poet, writer, artist? Remember, whether it's sport or art, there's a relationship between intelligence and success. What kind of parents today take their smart but talented child out of the classroom and direct him to sports, art? We can either squeeze the kids between the school and the school, keep losing them and the future of the country, or we can build a new system based on the discovery and development of children's abilities. I believe that's the way to look at the classroom. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear friends, you will say that Dershane is not the cause, but the result. I agree with that view to the end. He says we all have to build a teaching system that doesn't need a classroom, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0486par0190	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgel. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0487par0194	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in five minutes we'll try to share our thoughts. Of course, we're up against one of the panic laws again before March 30th. The goal, of course, is not to provide solutions to the basic problems of education; the goal, as everyone knows, is to manage liquidation operations that will serve AKP's political goals. The Ministry of National Education has already turned into a structure that, in each change of ministry, then makes excuses for the previous period. National education, inequity, free of justice and righteousness, is being tried to be governed by an understanding that has only a political purpose. The minister's attitude in 4+4+4 Commission talks is the most obvious example of this law today. Of course, what happened, and why did this law come to the General Assembly agenda, and why did old friends become enemies, and there was a fight between them, and that law came up? Of course, it's important: it's not just the closing of the classrooms, it has a lot of liquidation sites in it, but it's important to say that the most busy part of society is the closing of the classrooms. Now, first of all, let's ask the question that all citizens ask from this parliamentary platform: Now, especially the Prime Minister, the upper administration of AKP (AKP) has been arm in arm with the congregation for years, encouraging it. He was the lead in all the openings, the events. He praised both the classrooms and the foreign schools. At the Turkish Olympics, it was always said that the company's troops had full-scale positions at their meetings, and they were always supported. In fact, at his last meeting, the Prime Minister described this structure as the peace ambassadors. Isn't that interesting? Now he describes the institution he calls the peace ambassador as an illegal organisation. Don't they ask the man, or don't they say: if what you say is true, if what you say is true, where were you in the past? Where were you in charge of this organization's structure, and what alliance did you have with this organization? There, today, the AKP is drowning in these contradictions. Not only in this area, but in all other areas, it drowns in contradictions, and the more you try, the more it sinks. The AKP may sink, but we won't let the AKP and this country go down, and the people won't let it go down. Today the classrooms are over 4,000 in this country. The AKP is in power at its most. The number of classrooms has increased most in AKP rule. Born of what need? Well, of course, today, the exam system continues in secondary school and in higher education. The education system is inadequate, the quality of education among schools is not equal, but everyone takes the same test. The existence of the classrooms, of course, is a result, a result of certain reasons. As you well know, closing the classrooms today will not solve any problems, but it will deepen the problem. The lack of teachers in schools, school and school, the quality of education that is not equal between schools, the problem that schools can't even buy coal, the problem that hundreds of thousands of teachers expect to appoint, will not be solved by this law. There is no regulation in this law to resolve these problems. All he cares about is closing the classrooms. Mr. Secretary, the public doesn't trust the education and schools of the Ministry of National Education, where you're Minister. And because he doesn't trust it, he sends his kids to the classrooms in this racing system. Now, instead of feeling responsible for yourself and dealing with these problems, you're busy closing the classrooms and taking part in the liquidation process, and you don't think about the sacrifices that can be born after shutting down these classrooms. There are 250,000 teachers waiting to be appointed; 50,000 teachers will be out of work, and you say you'll take them on a verbal test. Man, these people don't trust your written tests, how can they trust your oral exam? In the meantime, how will this be a conflicting practice, and how will you resolve the contradiction between teachers who have entered KPSS, who are waiting to be appointed, and teachers who will be appointed by oral examinations for today? Like we said, it's hard to explain in five minutes. However, we'll rephrase our thoughts on the matter later. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0488par0201	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Now, let's move on to 15 minutes of QA. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0489par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with this law, tests are brought in that will pave the way for arbitrary practices; public land and school spaces and buildings are opened for rent; classrooms are closed before exams are eliminated; school managers are dismissed without any grounds; an alternative, an oral test model is brought to the public by the current application; the audit system is limited; the audit system is politicised. Isn't this all against the law? In this case, won't personnel applications become inextricable? Is appointing principals a preparation for the transfer of your education to local governments in Oslo? Have you committed to handing over national education to the local authorities? What do you think of that, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0490par0207	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0491par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I need to address an old question to Mr. Secretary because of a fact that we all know widely. The Minister's predecessor, Omar Dinçer, did not answer the question I asked a year and a half ago. Now I feel the need to ask the Minister that question. My question is, is it true that Bosnia and Herzegovina High School in the province of Conium Seljuklu has been transformed into Bosnia and Herzegovina Imam Hatip High School? Is it true that in order to prevent girls and boys from seeing each other from being in the 10th grade school, the school principal separates the children from the front? Is it true that the screen did not create enough barriers, and then the boys and girls were taken to separate floors? What's the explanation for this application with the concept of secular education? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0492par0212	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0493par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, there was a pay equivalent between teachers who worked in private schools and teachers who worked in public schools, and they could not get paid any less than public schools, but with this arrangement, you create a way for teachers in private schools to get paid less. Each law must serve a certain public benefit, a certain social benefit, can you explain the social benefits and the public benefits of reducing the salaries of teachers in private schools?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0492par0216	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0494par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, during the history of the Republic, you have made history as Secretary of State who has done the greatest evil to our national education. With 4+4+4, you took the biggest hit. Now, as if that weren't enough, you're taking out all the executives and preparing to strike the second major blow to national education. I'm very curious, when you look at the PISA numbers, the results, in your time, our country is moving back step by step. For God's sake, I really wonder how you sleep at night.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0492par0220	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0495par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is there another country, other than the undersecretary and TTK, where all executives have been replaced, including the principals? I mean, is there another model country like this in one fell swoop? Second, in spite of the special attempt on Article 48 of the Constitution to close the classrooms, there is a number of compensations, etc. - who will pay for them when they go to the ECHM and when they win? Are you going to pay for it in your pocket, or are you going to pay for it in the government's pocket? Wouldn't that be misconduct? On the other hand, you're saying you're going to maintain the rights of all the principals you've relieved. Many of the bureaucrats you've already fired are consultants at various institutions, and who's going to pay you this much to pay so many people who don't do any work, who don't do any work? Isn't that unfair? Isn't it harming the country?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0496par0226	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Tanal... no. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0497par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Secretary, under the direction of this Ocalan, the BDP municipalities are opening the Education Support Homes, or EDEV, in the area. Now, according to our information, there have been around 15-16 activities in Diyarbakır, and around 100-150 in the entire southeast. What's the real number of these? Now, while classrooms are being converted here, what is the purpose of opening the Education Support Homes in this region? So here, these units are the elements that carry people to the mountain? Do you have any work on this? Is this information accurate? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0498par0234	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0499par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, especially since you've been in charge of the ministry -- let me say, in the last year -- for what reasons have the faculty at the university been removed from their teaching duties, from their profession? What do you intend to do with the arrangement you have made in Article 7 of this bill? Are you aiming to run universities under a total pressure regime? Now that you've touched the universities, who's going to talk in Turkey, where is he going to talk? They weren't able to speak anyway, and since no chancellor has ever been able to make a board or a senate decision on a country issue, do you intend to pressure the professors with these crimes? Isn't that a bit harsh? I'd like your opinion on that.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0498par0238	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0500par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have a personal question for you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0501par0242	Is that a personal question? Nothing special happens in Congress, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0500par0243	Have you ever been deposed in a way in your career that is, as you do? How did you feel if you were taken, one? Won't the dismissal of tens of thousands of rulers produce a weakness in education, two? To you, the most important problem of national education is turning it into a classroom, turning it into a private school, three? What are you waiting for to edit the teachers' wages and salaries -- I just asked -- I didn't get any answers -- four? This bill destroys institutionalization in education, destroys organisational culture. What do you intend to do to ensure continuity and institutionalisation in education? When this bill was drafted, where did you put the concepts of democracy, participation and justice? And the last question is, what measures do you think would be in order for the PKK not to fill the gap left in the southeastern classrooms? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0502par0251	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0503par0253	Let me start with the question asked by Mr. Janibari, and I'll start with the general questions outside of private. If we get personal, I'm gonna have to tell a lot of life stories, so let's start with the usual. The PKK issue, Oslo issue: In fact, I gave them an answer on a television channel last night: I told them that as Minister of Education of the Republic of Turkey, I would deny even responding to such accusations and adjectives. But out of respect for Parliament and its members, I must say that such an agreement, a contract, a consultation, an interview, a commitment made by the Ministry of National Education to any group, organisation, division, a commitment, a promise, no expectation, has been made.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0504par0255	How will you fill the void?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0503par0256	There's no gaps before, and there's no such thing as: Look, we have an app called SODES. We have institutions run throughout Turkey by the Ministry of Development, which operate under the name of special education centres, which are funded by the Ministry of Development, which are especially funded by NGOs in the east and southeast. With this law, they will continue to operate. We know they're functional. I don't have the numbers that have been paid for so far, but I'll also give you details about how many institutions have opened, how many students have received education support or have gone to skills courses here so far. So, there's no gap. We have measures to fill a gap that can be found. If we go backwards, the question is, how many faculty members of Mr. Ilton's university -- after I started the mission -- have been dismissed? I don't have that number right now, let me know, but this final arrangement is not to prevent faculty, faculty, faculty, members from making political statements, but not to explain their institutions as binding, even though they are not responsible for any management. This is a requirement of each institution's right to organize its own public relations, so any university professor, member of the university, has no representation that only comes from being a member of that university, has no representation, it's here as an arrangement that clears it up.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0505par0258	But it's too heavy. From now on, college professors can't make a statement about anything.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0503par0259	No. The question of Mr. Halaçoglu is where to evaluate and assess these changing bureaucrats: These are our friends, who, as we all know, will continue to benefit from their experience, from their experience. We're thinking of considering them primarily in our online educational institutes.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0506par0261	Will he be assigned to his former duties or not?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0503par0262	It could be, it could be, as a result of that performance review, they'll be reassigned to their former duties, as they are now referred to as the pool. They will be judged in line with the new institutionalization. Again, Mr. Halaçoglu, you mentioned education support houses and the Oslo process. As I was saying, the Ministry of National Education...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0506par0264	And you don't, so you don't.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0503par0265	No, no, no. We haven't even heard a rumor about it. Look, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0506par0266	Mr. Secretary, leave it to the governors, when's the procedure?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0503par0267	I'm hearing it here, I'm hearing it from you. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0506par0268	I'm asking you in connection with the Metropolitan Act.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0503par0269	I mean, that's a lot of comments. Like I said, there's a lot of serious work under SODES. I told that to Mr. Yeniçeri. I'll give you their numbers.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0506par0270	The closing of the classrooms, the lawsuits that could be filed with the ECHR...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0503par0271	The question of Mr. Sorik is: We're investigating the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina High School in Iconia. When I get that information from our friends, I'll introduce it to you. Mr. Acar has spoken of arbitrary practices and labor exploitation and the constraint of the Board of Education... it's useful to make it clear once again about this Training Discipline: the structure, the function of the Board of Education, does not change. The only change we make in the Law is the study, consultation, and decision-making body of the National Ministry of Education. There was a statement, where we take out the word of the decision-making body, and we bring it into the form of the discussion body. And that's because the idea of changing, changing the function of the Training Discipline Board is because we used statements that exceeded our purpose in the basis of the relevant clause. So I tried to make it clear at the National Board of Education meeting. In my statement at the National Education Commission, I said: "It is the study and decision-making of the first joke. We are changing it because, as we have explained several times, in all ministries, the Ministry of National Education is also the minister of decision-making...
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0507par0274	Your time is up, sir. Answer in writing if you want... I'll give you one more minute, please.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0503par0276	Thank you. ..the minister makes the final decisions, the minister assumes the political responsibility. Other than that, the statements on the grounds are a little out of the question. So the minister and the undersecretary are forming a second undersecretary. expressions such as these are beyond our means. So what we're going to do is we're going to make a change, and we're going to propose that the Training Discipline Board is a advisory and review body. We did one more thing, and a friend of ours said that we should expand the Council of Education's consultation base. Now, the general managers of our services, such as secondary education, basic education, will join the Board of Education on matters related to them, and they will be able to vote. I hope I can answer any other questions I can't answer in writing like I did before. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit09spe0508par0280	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0509par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 562. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, we're going to begin negotiations on the first section's materials. There are three motions in article 1: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes a draft bill to the Council of Ministers, which was referred to on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers, "International Education Basic Law Act, and 562th Law Charter (/884) under which there is a meeting of some Law and 25th Amendments in the Constitutional Code (1/82/204) under which the Constitution shall be adopted in accordance with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, as the Plan and the Budget Commission's Commission's proposal, which shall be presented to the Plan and Budget Commission by 21 and 22/2/2014, in accordanceing with its 24/2/2014. Zühal Topçı Lütfü Türkkan Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following are the 1st verses of Article 2 of Law No. 1416, which has been replaced by Article 1 of the First Amendment to the First Amendment under the National Education Basic Law and by some Laws and Laws. " The effect of the oral exam will not exceed ten per cent in regulations for the student's selection." We offer and offer to add his notice. With all due respect. Namik Havutça Fatma Nur Serker Sakine Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The written and verbal examinations are recorded on audio and video.' We offer and offer to add his testimony. Pervin Buldan İdris Baluken Secret Sakık Hasip Kaplan Selma River Erol Dora Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0510par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0509par0032	I'm having it read. The oral examinations conducted by public institutions and organisations in Turkey are a practice that has been treated with suspicion by all public opinion, especially candidates taking the test. Information is constantly reflected in the press and the public that oral exams have nepotism and that there are suspects. For example, Izmir National Education Directorate has taken a verbal test from Human Resources Services Director Tariq Uður himself and has taken 99 copies of the press. Documents of the Finance Ministry preparing a list of blue and red names for candidates who have won and will be interviewing the tax inspector's exam were also included in media reports that the candidates on the red list have been eliminated in the interview. According to recent public reports, the MEB has pressured candidates to write their answers in pencil during the examination of 1,700 branch managers. Again, the appointment of Administrator in Mush was announced in its oral exam by union candidates close to power, who scored very high on the written exam, but were given very low scores to other union members, along with documents from trade unions. It is possible to replicate these examples, and oral tests in the MEB are the date of historical political staffing and the favor of fellow union members. These fundamental tests must be conducted within the framework of merit, fairness and equality. Also, the way to appeal and judge should be clear. This motion basically aims to preserve audio and video recordings of the exams and to base them on possible objections. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following are the 1st verses of Article 2 of Law No. 1416, which has been replaced by Article 1 of the First Amendment to the First Amendment under the National Education Basic Law and by some Laws and Laws. " The effect of the oral exam will not exceed ten per cent in regulations for the student's selection." We offer and offer to add his notice. With all due respect... Namik Havut (Fishesir) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0511par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0509par0045	On the motion, Mr. Sakine Öz, please.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0512par0046	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all at this hour of the night. I made a promise on the first article of the bill. If we count this bill as just a school arrangement, we'll make a mistake. Now, I'm going to tell you one as Bilal tells the boy the real purpose of this bill. This bill is dedicated to leaving education entirely to political staff after the judiciary and security of corruption and bribery agenda. This bill will not help the non-assigned, the candidate teachers, the waiting-school transport education, the young educator whose labor is being exploited in the classroom for pennies. This week in my district, Manisa Alaşehir Kavakavere, the young, unappointed teacher who worked at his father's counter in the marketplace, will not be able to solve the work of our candidate to bring home bread, but it will make injustice even more unjust. Members of parliament, as you look at the detail of this bill, its fancy words are stamped out. The education of the children of our poor families, who are qualified, without money, and based on the equality of opportunity, will be a complete fantasy. In my home country, private school costs will be even more taxing our poor budgets. While the Prime Minister is working late on resetting millions of our families' budgets will run out of zeroes in the private school vault. With this bill, our private school teachers will be more tired, exploited, unable to receive severance pay from their classrooms, and education will be reduced. This bill, which has closed the classrooms and given the treasure land to private schools, has coveted the land line in training, and has entered into the account of re-robbing the state under the name of building schools. The Ministry's blackmail of the law will go down in the history of the law. The classrooms will have the land, provided they do not sue the Ministry and withdraw their current cases. The Ministry, which disappeared while the problems of our public schools continued, closed our Adnan Menderes High School in Akisar, with 900 students in Manisa, while the deputy governor was not afraid to give the school to imam-hosts for 30 or 40 students. The building, which began three years ago for Manisa Fine Arts and Sports High School, was given to the imam-hatip high school by the same governorship's snap decision. Members of parliament, this bill is dedicated to establishing the new secondary bureaucracy for the post-community through oral exams and appointments in national education. Our parliament is being forced to patch the entire state into the AKP's organization, which has completely collapsed in the wake of corrupt alliances and corruption. This bill will cover only 24,000 of the 51,000 school teachers. There is no more bread for you, no more insurance for you, until the canteen, tens of thousands of administrative staff, and tens of thousands of teachers who work in the classrooms for less than six years. Without KPSS, I will place the bill on a verbal exam. He makes fun of the teacher who is waiting for the appointment, and he moves on to the oral test to the new magistrates, to the political staff in education. After the trial and the security, he removes the positions he finds against him in training in a completely illegal manner. In new Turkey, work will be given to those who know business, not to those who know business, but to those who know the minister closely within the state, and to those who melt money as fast as they can in trade. Bilal, you didn't hear from us, as if your father loved Sumeyah more than you. The AKP ranks, you may not have heard from us, but your king loves his money much more than you and Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0513par0054	What a sultan!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0512par0055	Keep playing and resetting, knowing that you're resting, and we'll continue to shout corruption, knowing that we're resting, no matter what the cost.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0514par0056	Shame, shame! There's no way!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0512par0057	If it's wrong, you come and say it. There's no shame in it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0515par0060	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes a draft bill to the Council of Ministers, which was referred to on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers, "International Education Basic Law Act, and 562th Law Charter (/884) under which there is a meeting of some Law and 25th Amendments in the Constitutional Code (1/82/204) under which the Constitution shall be adopted in accordance with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, as the Plan and the Budget Commission's Commission's proposal, which shall be presented to the Plan and Budget Commission by 21 and 22/2/2014, in accordanceing with its 24/2/2014. S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0516par0068	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0515par0069	Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0517par0071	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you all a good night. If you'll excuse me for a moment to lighten the mood of the House, I'd like to tell you a joke in accordance with the subject. Even though jokes aren't real, they make people laugh. That's the joke. At first, Erdogan, the Prime Minister for 11 years, what has happened in 11 years, I mean, even if it's a lie, it makes people believe. Turkey became one of the top 10 most advanced economies in the world, raising exports to $500 billion.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0518par0073	It's gonna happen, it's gonna happen, it's gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0517par0074	The unemployment has been reset, and people don't like jobs anymore. It's 50 grand a million dollars per year, and now people don't know where to put their money, so they start stacking them in shoe boxes. The classrooms are closed, but what a shame, all the private schools are free, all the poor children are open. I wish it were true, but I told you, it's a joke. Prime Minister Erdoğan said: "I am no longer able to do anything, I am bored." But, as before, in football, bad results continue to take over the football national team. They said: "What are you doing in politics, Mr. Prime Minister?" He said: "How can I succeed in politics, how can I succeed in sports?" Of course, orders cut iron, and the Prime Minister will be called no?" He's wearing his sweatpants, taking over his football national team. After that, he really started winning games like this. After each match, they ask Mr. Erdogan, he gives the same answer. Sir, I'm an accountant. He's a European champion, he's gone to the World Cup finals, first round, second round, Brazil in the final, he plays one goal, Turkey. The 70th minute, Mr. Erdogan ran to the side referee in his tracksuit, trying to tell him something. The next referee pushed it with a flag bat. He said, "Go, brother." Then he shows up again, tries to tell me something, and the side referee refuscitates it again. The middle referee blew the whistle and stopped the game, ran to the side referee.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0519par0075	That's the level, that's the level. You're making a very good speech about showing your level, bravo!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0517par0076	He said, "What are you doing here, I can't watch the game, what's going on?" The judge said: "Sir, I'm a man of account, I'm a man of account, and I'm a man of account."
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0520par0077	Yeah, that's funny! Oh, how funny!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0521par0078	Laugh at the end of jokes!
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0517par0079	Dear friends, especially in training, he's dried up everything he's ever touched... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Guys, it's a joke. You're gonna have to put up with it. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0522par0082	Well, look, the teacher's waiting for the sequel, waiting to see where it connects.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0517par0083	No insults, nothing, you'll have to endure it.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0522par0084	Yes, but Teacher Ozcan is waiting to see where he can tie it. Teacher Ozcan is waiting to see where he can tie this.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0523par0085	Please don't talk to me! Mr. Speaker, don't insult me, please.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0524par0087	I'll tie you up. Excuse me.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0525par0088	But he didn't laugh, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0524par0089	I'm gonna tie up where the accountant's handing out. Five ministers have changed, five times, so-called reformed, that's what's coming out. So that's where the calculator brings Turkey, where the national education comes from. Dear friends, national education is in really bad shape right now. You need to see this. Every problem you've had in the field of national education to carry out your hobbies concerns millions of students, teachers, and student parents. So this isn't -- nobody's sorry -- a politician's father farming. National educational policy should be above politics. Look, there are constant settlement commissions in this House. Why aren't these five-year-old, ten-year-old frames appointed in a national education that should be political? Mr. Secretary, for example, you can make such a suggestion. Yes, my dear friends, I say that we will not support this bill, which is to set thousands, millions of students on fire in spite of their ambitions in front of your mind and in spite of a stubbornness, especially to throw students in the fire.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit10spe0526par0094	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-26sit11spe0526par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 562. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Thursday (February 27, 2014) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Thursday (February 2014). I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. I bid you good night.
