tbmm-2014-06-26sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ill - Y O L A M A We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ill - Y O L A M A The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, who asked for a promise on the destruction of the region and the local tradesman of the tornado. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0002par0011	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. Our tradesmen in Tuzla district of Tuzla district of İstanbul on 19 June 2014 were indeed damaged and destroyed because of tornadoes, hurricanes and storms. Because of this storm and hurricane, about 22 boats have been sunk in Tuzla, and many of our tradesmen have suffered major losses. Our tradesman, of course, has no way of paying for these damages himself. In this regard, the government needs compassion. However, the state must at least take a hand here, and pay for the financial losses of our citizens, both here and in the region, in terms of the extension of Tuzla, in the Pendik district. Otherwise, the victim here is very difficult and vulnerable to the public's own resources. At the same time, what problems do we have with Tuzla County? The absence of decontamination facilities there impresses Tuzla. There is a great stench. There's a dock in Tuzla for shipping, but the boat can't dock, the pier is used as a restaurant. At the same time, throughout the neighborhoods of Tuzla County, most of them have both property problems and zoning problems. Our friends, who have been mayors of the AKP in Tuzla, for a long time, have been able to resolve the development problem of Tuzla, the property problem of Tuzla. Thus far, Tuzla's zoning problem, the property problem of Tuzla, has not been resolved, and the property problem of Tuzla is constantly increasing. At the same time, the decontamination facilities found within the skin industry in Tuzla are not run from time to time. Of course, there's probably a cost of running the decontamination plants in the skin industry, which are not being activated in this way, and there's bad smell in the environment, and our citizens are uncomfortable with that. Our Tuzla district has another slum problem in the Districts of Architect Sinan and Healing, our citizens have a property problem in the slums, they have a zoning problem. So far, both the zoning problem and the property problem of our two neighborhoods have not been dealt with by the Metropolitan Municipality, Tuzla Municipality and by the power, and our citizens have suffered the same. In the same way, the green-field gas station in Aydınlı district of Tuzla district has been built again. Of course, this green area has been turned into a gas station again by certain circles. Again, the Tuzlaspor Tea Garden, located on the coast of Tuzla, has been handed over to the private sector on the beach this week, and the green area in which the public can benefit is also facing destruction. In the state hospital in Tuzla County, the equipment is inadequate, the doctor is inadequate, the nurse is inadequate, the bed capacity is inadequate. In that sense, the Tuzla people are victims. Tuzla is also a recent drug gang. Drugs are being sold in front of schools. Police officials are not taking any precautions. In the past few days, a 13-year-old brother of ours has actually passed away in a drug coma like this. I mean, in this regard, Tuzla had a lot of problems. The current government has been here for a long time, although locally the municipality is in the city, while the municipality is in its own hands, none of which has been dealt with by Tuzla's zoning problem or the struggle with property problems or drug gangs. It's summer now. All the buses that came from Tuzla to Salam are old. Because it's old, they don't have air conditioning, they don't have air conditioning, they don't have enough air conditioning. And, at the same time, these buses take off periodically, for a long time in terms of service. Periodically, because it does not rise regularly, our citizens are also victimised by lack of service, due to municipal service. Especially those of us who visit late. They can't come back. In terms of transportation, the Tuzla are also victims. From here to power and municipalities, if possible, I ask that Tuzla take care of this sacrifice, and pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The second non-responsive statement belongs to the Istanbul MP Smurf Ünal, who asked about Ramazan and the brotherhood in the Balkans. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0004par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to Ramadan and brotherhood in the Balkans. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I wish that the month of mercy and forgiveness, blessed Ramadan, would be a blessing for our country, our nation, and the entire Islamic world, to bring peace and unity. I wish you all the best of your blessed Ramadan. The Balkans are also a priority for Turkey in historical, cultural and human ties, as well as geographical, political, and economic. The Balkans, which are geographically Turkey's extension to the European continent, also have great significance in its special position in the historic process that shapes the Turkish nation, regional integration and its potential for future membership in the context of the European Union, which we share with all countries in the region. Turkey, as a country in the region, puts great emphasis on bilateral relations with Balkan countries and maintains all good relations with countries in the region. Our bilateral relations are even more developed in the light of our historical ties and good neighbourly principles, based on principles of respect for independence, sovereignty, and non-interference of territorial integrity. Precious lawmakers, speaking of a local example: Our esteemed brother, who is currently the mayor of the period as İstanbul Bayrampaşa Municipality in 2005 and who is currently a member of parliament's services under the roof of Parliament, is the largest cultural, friendship and brotherhood project between the Balkans and Turkey that has established bridges of hearts in the Balkans and the Balkans. In addition to our cultural union and our brotherhood, the Balkans have, unfortunately, been the center of dissolution and conflict. In the Balkans, dissolution with Ramadan events has turned into friendship. The wounds inflicted by bloody hands in the region are surrounded by Project No Borders of the Brotherhood. For nine years, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Kosovo, Macedonia, Greece and Bulgaria have been forced to set separate iftar tables in each city and Bajrampaşa. I'd like to welcome Mr. Attila Aydıner, our mayor, who has achieved this challenge, and his team. History bears witness that we have lived together with our brothers in the Balkans for centuries, we have become neighbors, we have become relatives, we have fused, we have merged. Sometimes we live within different political boundaries, but that fact never changes. Despite heavy wars and bloody atrocities, the region maintained its architectural, urban fabric, art, literature, folklore, sociocultural integrity. Our long-standing ties from yesterday to today and the Ottoman cultural heritage have led Turkey to produce projects for the Balkans. This year, on Saturday (June 21st), we saluted our fertility convoy from Bajrampaşa, which will take place in the Balkans, the 10th place in Ramadan. Hopefully, in 21 different cities in 9 countries, we're planning to reunite and reconfirm tens of thousands of brothers and sisters, and good luck. Once again, I congratulate Mr. Attila Aydıner, our mayor, who has expanded this project, and I wish our president and his team the best of luck. As I end my words, I would like to share with you these verses of our dear brother Cemil Yavuz. There is a vein connecting Asia Minor and the Balkans to Anadolu. And there is the brother of the Tigris, and the sister of Firat, and the sister of Neretva, and the daughter of Vardar, And for the raiders are fountains watering their horses, My grandfathers have walls made with calluses, And there are the sycamores, and the tombs where he sleepeth in peace, There are winds that bring the smell of brothers from the Balkans, Every festival has young men, elders in the Balkans, There are saints in the Balkans whose grave is located in Anatolia. There are spirits that even separation can't separate, that even separation can't separate. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0005par0051	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Erzincan MP Muharrem Izlu, who wants to talk about Erzincan's problems. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0006par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Dear MPs, I don't think there's a difference between Erzincan's problems and Turkey's problems. I think the problems in Erzincan have occurred in 80 provinces as well. Of course, when we talk about problems, especially the ruling side thinks we're imagining things, but the facts are clear. In this day and age, there are villages without water, without water, without water, or without water because of the HESES. For example: they live in the village of Sölperen, in the village of Esenyurt, in the village of Karacalar, in the village of Kemah, in the village of Kuzuören, Tercan. Because of the drought, we have farmers who can't water their fields, who are miserable. We're dealing with a power that's trying to get rid of all responsibility to the irrigation troops. Before each election, we will bring attractive water to Erzincan. We face a power that deceives the people. He did not vote for me. We have villages that are discriminated against, without service. I understand, perhaps, that there is no vote in a village, but there is a village called Göyne in Erzincan. This village is a village 29km away from Erzincan. It's a village 1,000 meters when you walk across, 1,000 meters when you walk down from the top. There is a feature of this village: in the upper part of the village, in the northern part of the village, the AKP will vote for the AKP, in the lower part of the village, in the southern part of the village, the CHP will vote for the CHP. I'd like you to see this village. The place above is all asphalt, all gone; not even a rough concrete has been drawn to the ground below; not even sand has been drawn. When it comes to it, of course, it's said that there's no discrimination. I'm afraid we have places where they make asphalts when they're from the AKP, where they don't give a foot of gravel without the AKP. The discrimination of hiring is knee-deep. He started at Aras Electric, but there was a young man who was laid off 14 days later because my name was written in the reference department. We live by instructions given to the private company, which will include these people. I'll break your contract right away. We're dealing with a mindset that says, "Take someone other than what I'm telling you to do." We are faced with a power that immediately suppresses and suppresses those who make noise in the smallest search for rights, and that is what happens in Erzincan. Because of the HESEs, our trees have dried up, our fields have dried up, so let's make some noise. There are those who immediately pressure those who try to have a small meeting, through their own parties. In our town of Grapes -- because of HES -- the people there have also been hurt -- and let's call the opposition MP, and maybe we'll announce our voices. Don't let the pressure happen to anyone. We're dealing with a segregationist mentality that goes so far as to say that the councilman will hold it by the neck and lift it up just because the councilmen made a little noise. The village chiefs are being called to the district mayors through the district heads. If you do not vote in the presidency, we will not bring you service. The threats started today. Opposition municipalities who suffered all the torture when the TOKI was made. It's located, it's coming from there, it's done all the work, but when there's going to be a toki raffle, when there's going to be a draw, we're dealing with a mindset that doesn't just call the mayor because he's from the MHP, and then leaves him there and then sends him an invitation to be embarrassed over the pressure. Of course, the biggest problem in Erzincan is the drought now. In Erzincan, unfortunately, water is now down to 10 per cent at Fırat, especially now, but there is no effort to take precautions. In Erzincan, we have three large irrigation units: Akbulut is in charge of watering 80,000 acres of land. There are 36,000 acres of land under it. There are 65,000 periods of land on the Left Coast. But right now, they're all dry, and we've got places where we're not even watered once. WHEN HES was made, all the resources were provided, and all the waters in all the streams were allowed to be gathered to one place, the irrigation troops were left alone; no measures were taken, no support was given. In particular, when we speak of it, the irrigation troops are given jobs, and we are no longer involved in this. The watering forces are left and left to face the citizens. The P-2 pump works with electricity. Some of the places under it work with electricity. Once the electricity's privatized, when it's not paid on its day, it's already powered down. They don't work for the debt. Right now, the chiefs of irrigation troops are here, they're having meetings, but we know that there will be no results in the meeting, because what they've been saying from the beginning is, especially in the east: don't do any work, don't do any work, leave the east, move away. We have the mindset to evaluate the mines, the water, and we're going to hunt someone there. In Turkey and Erzincan, especially in Erzincan, we want to stop this drought this year and take important measures to address the problems that the farmer is facing there. We're calling the government on this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0007par0075	Thank you, Mr. Light. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to lawmakers who have entered the system. First, I'll start with the vice president of the group. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0008par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, in Kerkuk, a member of the Iraqi Turkmen Front Executive Board and the president of the Kerkuk Central District Assembly, Münir Kafili, was killed by traitors. May the Lord have mercy on us. But, you see, in this process of feeding, bringing the ISIS terror organization to this point, unfortunately, the Turkican presence in Kerkuk is also threatened. This suggests that a global project is being carried out on Turks and Turkey. Also, as the National Movement Party Group, as lawmakers, Mr. Mahir Ünal, deputy leader of the AKP Group, we are really celebrating him on this happy day, God bless him. As all of our MPs, we ask that he give him the happiness of two men of the Genab. Again, we wish Mr. Mahir Ünal well, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0009par0083	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0010par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. A tradesman in front of the AKP says in a brutal manner: "This is the Minister of Agriculture, who has victimized us, has ruined my family. You're chasing me, my 50-year-old tradesman, 50 people were eating bread out of my hand, and I was a victim in the days of this government, and God will sacrifice you. This citizen's scream and site are being shut down by the citizens' protections so they can't be heard. O AKP! If the citizen can't speak his word, if he can't speak his hiccups, how will you look at the face of that citizen? This is where your economic policy brings the country. The AKP government has imported everything from hay to ash; it has ruined the farmer; it has become the government of shopping malls, not the business; it has become a government that consumes and consumes and imports; Turkey has converted into a society of trade and consumption; the result is clear.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0011par0088	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0012par0090	Mr. President, the Prime Minister's office, which is held at Ataturk Forest Farm, is the legacy of the Supreme Ataturk, the convention centre, the wedding hall and sports complex construction, the Chamber of Architects and the Ankara Branch have decided to stop the five occupational chambers in the trial against Danışta, but the Ataturk Forest Farm is being raided at full speed. Doesn't it give you hints that you won't recognize rights, law and law in the Presidential Mansion, when a lawless man who lets the Ataturk Forest Farm be looted and undermining the law has the courage to run for President? How can such a person be considered a presidential candidate? Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has made repeated statements saying, "Our case is not important." Do our people wonder what these cases are, or are you referring to a concept of the Constitution, the principles of the republic, a state that gives up secularism?
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0011par0091	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0013par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating Mahir Ünal. In Suruç district of Şanlıurfa, Şanlıurfa is the district of Suruç. However, the company that did the irrigation project has assigned new deeds to the villages without even applying for the farmers' opinion, even without the citizen's approval. A fight broke out during the deed work in Huyükyani district, killing one person and wounded one. By injustice, people are turned against one another. The company you're bidding on is being persecuted, not public service. In this regard, has the Department of Governorate, Food, Agriculture and Animality tasked subsidiary companies to seize the rights and property of the locals?
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0014par0097	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0015par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey's Minor National Assembly, which entered its 6th year this year, met in 19 different cities in Turkey in June. 12 vocational rooms, 30 trade unions, 151 associations, foundation and civil enterprise representatives attended these meetings, and I would like to present to the public the results of the joint denominator report of this meeting. It can be summed up in 3 articles. 1) The International Labour Organization Convention No. 176 must be signed and the subcontractorship must be banned in each sector. 2) The legislation on occupational health and safety should not remain a written text; it must be implemented. 3) The relevant control units should be trained and independent for every available business branch, and the number of staff members should be qualified to conduct regular inspections. The Turkish Parliament, whose government is the voice of the common mind of civil society, is to report to the common denominator...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0016par0106	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0017par0108	Mr. President, as I've told you many times, this is the industrial capital of Turkey. Even though he is an industrial capital, Istanbul is the headquarters of large industrial companies that produce. In this case, the taxes lie in the IRS of the Great taxpayers in Istanbul. Therefore, he is deprived of his share of the tax he has produced, and he has lost a great deal of rights. To prevent the loss of the rights of the Alexandrian industrialist's businesses, the large tax office of the taxpayers must be opened in the district of Hosheli and the tax offices of the industrial institutions whose production facilities are in Kokeleli. And I'm warning the Minister of Industry here, and I'm reminding him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0018par0111	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0019par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Kahramanmarash is one of our few cities with historical and natural beauty, but it has historical artifacts that haven't been uncovered. Only one of them is the Ancient City of Germanicia, which is still buried underground in Kahramanmarash. Heromarash, at the point of opening this history to Turkish and world tourism, we would like to ask that the necessary work be done, the relevant institutions and the Ministry be immediately brought in, and the budget be earmarked here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0020par0116	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0021par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. In our region of Gebze and Tuzla, ten places of work in the Tuzlam Society, the workers of Crystal-Business went on strike, and today is the fifth day of the strike. The workers, using their right to a collective contract of employment, demand that the conditions of working in a hot environment of 60 degrees [60 degrees] improve and the safety measures be taken, improve wages of 1,300 Turkish lira at this temperature, and not go below the hunger limit in Turkey, and eliminate the wage distinction between employees. Despite their reasonable and acceptable demands, I expect authorities to help end this strike with a compromise by the relevant authorities and the ministry. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0022par0121	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0023par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the beautiful districts of our Bursa is Mayor Hayri Türkyyilmaz, who is identified with peace, love, tourism and sheds light on history. Our mayor, who made the needs of a social-democratic municipality, opened his doors to the public, joined with our Mudanian countrymen, was attacked. I condemn this attack. I'd like to extend my regards to Mr. Efkan Ala, the Minister of the Interior, who has made it a habit to respond very briefly to the motions, and to the thought that he will bring his perpetrators to justice as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0022par0125	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0024par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Many farmers from different parts of our country expect solutions to this problem, as agricultural benefits should not be paid by the beginning of May. Besides, we all know that our farmers who are trying to survive in great tribulation are having serious financial problems. On the one hand, farmers who receive support from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism due to imaginary productions, but on the other hand, it makes sense that the rights of our farmers in the case of real producers are not granted. I invite the government to pay these supports to our farmers who have earned their right to agricultural support without further delay, and I demand that the victim be relieved. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0025par0130	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0026par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding the mine, which was intended to be removed at the position of Cerattepe in Artvin, the company initially applied for the removal of copper mines in closed gallery style for 38 hectares, which is still being filed against the CED report. But in the same place, after time passed, he decided to give up his earlier claims for 19.8 hectares of land, withdraw his claim to mine in closed gallery business style, and this time he intends to do gold mining in an open-field way over the city, which is clearly 60-70 per cent bent. In this regard, the administration has been applied for a CED report. The governor's office has also suggested that the CED report is necessary. There is a choice between whether we destroy Artvin with a weapon or destroy him with a bomb. This initiative by the interested firm is a murder of the law. The Artvins strongly oppose this initiative. All our sensibility is that this mining process...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0027par0136	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0028par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, about a year ago, the Ministry of National Education appointed some of the executives to some duties. And when he made these appointments, he said to the people, "Look, I'm doing it in writing and I'm doing it in interviewing, and then he did it over interviews, and he didn't pay any attention to his written exams. Of course, the incident moved to trial and the State Department naturally cancelled the application. But yesterday we had a shame. Yesterday, a bill that envisioned the implementation of this application in reverse has been adopted on a commission of a law clause, and the AKP government has issued a law that demonstrates that it is illegal in the past. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he brought it up again, it's a scandal. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0029par0144	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Unuvar...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0030par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Today (June 26th) is the Day of World Drug Use and Trafficking. On this occasion, all of the officers who have struggled with the drug problem thank you, and I wish our fellow citizens health from this disease. Tomorrow is June 27th, 1998, the 16th anniversary of the Ceyhan earthquake. I wish God's mercy to 145 of our citizens who lost their lives in this earthquake, and long lives to 1,500 of our wounded citizens. Our government is taking a lot of precautions regarding the earthquake, but I would like to stress on this occasion that our citizens must learn their own part of the earthquake. In addition, the Ramazanan, which will begin on Saturday (June 28th), wishes the sheriff to bring blessings to our nation and the Islamic world, and finally, to our current marriage, Deputy President Mahir Ünal, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0031par0150	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0032par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. In Istanbul, İSKi increased the price index of consumer prices by 26 per cent in the last three years, but increased the price of water sold to citizens by 33 per cent. So it sells 6 to 7 percent more than the consumer price index. Likewise, these days, when the holy Ramadan is approaching, we see the price of dry food and meat has also increased relentlessly. I'm reminding you that these measures should be taken at once, thinking that we should be with the poor people. Besides, I don't think the measure against thirst should be taken as a higher increase in Istanbul, and I think other measures should be taken. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0033par0157	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0034par0159	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Kaplan has just voiced that in several factories across the country, the Crystal-Business Group member is on strike with about 5,800 workers. Nearly 2,200 of these workers work in Bosticam factories in my science, in the centipede. Mr. President, in addition to the fact that our workers are not being met with reasonable demands, I see the employer is trying to get the goods out of the building, both in a collective contract and against the law, out of hand, with subcontractors or different people. I'm also warning the Ministry officials who are listening to us from here. There's a business peace there -- because I just talked to him, there's a cop there, there's a gendarme there -- that could be the issue. I'd like to request that the Ministry intervene immediately and address the problem there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0035par0162	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Finally, Mr. Karakelle...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0036par0164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Erzincan MP Muharrem Ilt Bey, who just spoke off the agenda, called the heads of the AK PARTI district chiefs in Erzincan, saying that the service will not come unless you vote for the candidate of the EC PARTI in the presidential election. I'm inviting him to prove it. You don't say hello to your constituents from this podium. Another is that the city's general parliamentary services are discriminated against, whereas if they go, if they get a chance to study them, the decisions made by our city's general parliament have been unanimous with opposition. I invite him there, and I invite him to take care of those services. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The other thing is about irrigation troops. There are three irrigation units in our Erzincan. They're really doing their part in the amount of resources they have. We don't discriminate between any of our farmers, we don't give water here, we don't give it here. There's no such thing. I'm saying that from now on, our talks should be meant to ensure the unity and unity of this nation. There's no way we can fix this with a salute to your constituent. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit02spe0037par0170	Thank you. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, there have been many "kimhan," Gizhan, Çorum, Malatya, Sivas, Erzincan, Marash, Sivas Madımak, Gazi and Umraniye massacres, as well as many "kimhan, Gizhan, Çorum, Malatya, Sivas, Erzincan" massacres. Most of these massacres against Alevis have not been transformed into conflicts intended by dark centers, thanks to the common sense and traditional peaceful attitude of our society. These massacres have not been investigated to satisfy the public conscience in our country. In our country, we have to face our problems in order for different ethnic and religious groups to live in social peace, freedom, and brotherhood, making efforts to light up the darkness. In order to examine the entire scale of this chain of mass murder, which has caused great suffering in our country, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th, and TBM Administration. 25/06/2012 [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 10) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] 15) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 16) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] 17) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Çanakkale]] 19) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Balıkesir]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] In our country, there have been a number of mass massacres, such as the massacres of Hekimhan, Brekhan, Çorum, Malatya, Sivas, Erzincan, Marash, Sivas Madımak, Gazi and Umraniye, starting recently from Centralca. Most of these massacres against Alevis have not been transformed into conflicts intended by dark centers, thanks to the common sense and traditional peaceful attitude of our society. These massacres have not been investigated to satisfy the public conscience in our country. In the process of judgment, the real causes and the responsible have not been revealed, and our society has yet to face these mass killings as it should be. While that was the case, on March 13, 2012, the court that saw the trial of the Madımak massacre had "a statute of limitations" for the Madımak killers. "May this decision be good luck to Turkey." What he said was more hurtful than the statute of limitations. These massacres will remain a barrier to democracy's functioning with all its institutions and rules, as long as the facts are not revealed, as long as they are not sufficiently clear with their cause and consequences. In our country, we have to face our problems in order for different ethnic and religious groups to live freely and as brothers in social peace, making efforts to illuminate the darkness. It is imperative that a TBM Research Commission be formed as soon as possible to examine the chain of mass murder that has caused great suffering in our country. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The scandal of every test that the Centre for Measurement and Placement (SSI) has taken has continued to affect millions of people's future and careers in a negative way, without any measures taken by the political will so far. In order to establish policies to prevent and to ensure the institution's reassertability, the TBMM Charter 104 and 105 will be identified along with the causes of errors and errors made by the OSCE. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. With all due respect. [[Mersin]] 2) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Slap]] [[Edirne]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] 18) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 19) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] 20) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] The Centre for Measurement and Placement (SSIP), which conducted tests on a wide range of examination services, evaluates and results documents, was one of the most reliable institutions in the past year, such as student placement, academic staff selection, entry into the profession, competency, rise in the mission, and measuring the level of foreign language information, and education. In particular, in the last two years, public staff selection examinations (KPSS) have raised questions about the extent of the practice of the OSCE and its trials, such as copying (KPSS), the cryptic and incorrectly printed questionnaires (YGS), and the principle of privacy, equality, and justice. For example, the fact that more than 300 people did 120 clear questions on the 2010 KPSS test is the greatest proof that questions were leaked before the examination, when they were married couples, brothers, or friends living in the same house. In 2011, nearly 500 people who entered the Academic Staff and Agreemental Education Initiative (ALES) at the Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences at İzmir University of 9 September (September 9th) are the most important example of the OSCE's inadequacies in this regard, as well as of the fact that the test began very late due to the distribution of missing, repetitive, flawed, and some empty pages of the textbooks, and that the candidates completed their exams under stress. On May 29, 2011, 75 of the 100 questions in the medical doctor's 2nd edition of the Level Computation Test for Foreign Higher Education Degrees were found to be the same as in the previous year's exam. During the 2011 Executive Judicial Judgeship Exam, photos of male candidates were placed in the test entry documents of some female judges, setting the stage for another chaos. The OSCE, also lacking and wrong in co-ordination, first published the 2011 Preference Guide on its website, which was halted by government officials and left for post-election. In 2011 at LYS, the discovery of the miscalculation of mid-school success points and affecting the rankings and preferences of over 5,000 students has clouded the OSD's credibility on the assessment of the test. Despite all the mistakes and scandals he's signed, the fact that the state has been supported from the highest level and that the presidential State Control Board (DDK) reports, which have identified their unhealthy relations with the only company that has ever received test tenders from its establishment, have also led to the increase of the OSTY's mistakes. As a result, it is inevitable that a research commission will be established in Turkey to determine whether tests involving millions of our people's careers, the future of our young ones can be made by the OSYM after this, to determine the causes of the mistakes that have been made so far, to establish solutions to them, and to establish policies already. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Istanbul-Bursa-Izmir Highway Project has objections in many residential areas concerning the highway route. The highway project's scholarship crossing route includes significant flaws in the future of Turkey and Bursa, which have been overlooked. The Highway Project is located on the south and north side of Lake Uluabat, and the routes of Gebze-Orhangazi, Orhangazi-Secret have not been studied in detail. All public interests, such as highway routes to the south of Lake Uluabat, agricultural areas, conservation of environments and wetlands, the country's economy, state treasure, national wealth, technicality, fuel consumption, maintenance and operating costs. However, when the highway is examined in terms of agricultural and environmental benefits, the adoption of Uluabat Lake to the south is seen as a necessity by the Citizens' Association of Academic Rooms (BAOB) and the citizens living in the region. Also, the heads of Orhangazi and Gemlik Chamber of Agriculture announced that 100-150,000 olive trees in their region and 200-250,000 olive trees across the house of Bursa would be destroyed. However, although there is an alternative route and project for the Orhangazi transition earlier, the Orhangazi district and Iznik Lake will be torn apart from each other due to a 5-10m-high fillings in the aluvyal areas. The northern route of the highway, thought to be the scholarship crossing route, will do great harm to agriculture on Karacabey and Mustafakemalpaşa's plains, which includes the most efficient agricultural areas in Burma and Turkey. Besides, no matter what the cost, the wasted, destroyed soil will not be able to regain it again. Our country will be able to face food resources problems in the future because of the farmland that will be lost. The highway project's highway area width is 670 hectares on the new north route, which is offered as the alternative to the southern crossing of the Lake Uluabat. The width of the highway protection band is 50 meters plus 55 meters [45 m] above and can be increased according to land conditions. The area of viaducts, tollbooths, parks, services and links is also identified as 139.4 hectares -1.394. The total farmland used during the highway's northern route is 809 hectares, 8.090. In view of the Istanbul-Bursa-Izmir Highway Project, the agricultural areas around the highway, the loss of agricultural products, the loss of quality, the disintegration of agricultural areas, environmental negative effects, land ground and quarry conditions, the risk of creating water raids, the waste of public resources, the cost of publicisation and the damage to the state treasure, and the problems of today's ability and the problems that could have arisen in this day, we propose that our Constitution be able to take the necessary measures from this day, as well as well as the 98 pp, the 105th and 10th Articles of TBMI Internal Affairs, and 10th Articles, and 10ths of the Parliament should be investigated. With all due respect. [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Niğde]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sakarya]] [[Artvin]] [[Edirne]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 23) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[40s.]] 25) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0037par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We are starting a general discussion on the Parliamentary Research Commission Report, which is part of this chapter, with the aim of determining and preventing violations against freedom of communication and privacy. İzmir MP Riza Mahmut Türmen and 25 MPs; Izmir MP Oktay Öçal and Mersin MP Mehmet Şandır, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu and 30 MPs; Group Chairs Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Eltaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın, Kahmaraş MP Mahir Ünal and 135 MPs; Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and 21 MPs on behalf of the Ak Party Group's Group (BDP) Chairs Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Eltaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adılı, Adıman MP Ahmet Aydın, Adımaşmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Diyarbakır MPs; Şırnak MP İsal and İstanbul MP İsınınımımımımımımımımımımımüloğlu; Diyarbakır MP Şorkulu; Diyarbakır MP İsımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımılu and İstanbul MP Şorımımımımımımımımımımımımılı and İstanbul MP İmın MP İmımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımılımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımılı and 21 MP İçlar, İstanbul MP İçlar, İstanbul MP İçlar, İstanbul MP İnımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımı Number: 489) [[x]] The commission and the government are in place. According to our Interior Charter, the Parliamentary Research Commission's report has the first motion to say in a general discussion, and then, according to Article 72 of the Interior Charter, two members will be promised on behalf of political party groups, and two members on behalf of their members. They will also be pledged to the Commission and the government at their request, with which the general discussion on the Parliamentary research commission report will be completed. The deadlines are 20 minutes each for the commission, the government and political party groups, ten minutes for the motions and individuals. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 489 rows. I'm now reading the names of the members of parliament who have taken over the report: Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, Denizli MP Bilal Uçar, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, Bingley MP İdris Baluken. On behalf of the groups: Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Denizli MP İlhan Cihaner on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bartın MP Yilmaz Tunc on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Jozgat MP Yusuf Başer as Commission; Science, Industry and Technology Minister Fikri Iş on behalf of the People's Party Group. On behalf of his subjects: İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger, İzmir MP Hamza Mountain will speak. I now call the first speaker to the stand, Mersin MP Aytug Thrower. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0038par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the Parliamentary Research Commission Report, which aims to establish measures relating to the Freedom of Communication and the Protection of Private Life and the Containment of Violations. I salute all those who do not support the culture of conspiracy, who are not intercessors, who speak valiantly, who do not wonder what anyone else is talking about, who trusts what he is talking about. My dear friends, illegal wiretaps have become a major legal and social problem in Turkey. When it comes to your account, it's the government who's silent to illegal wiretaps and who's screaming when it doesn't come to your account, I'd say it's the only one who's responsible. My dear friends, the first offer to set up a commission in order to investigate these problems has been made by our İzmir MP, Mr. Riza Turmen, and the date is June 2011. The Republican People's Party, which cried out in June 2011, was illegal, and the government could be involved. The cry of the Republican People's Party, which said, "When it began to touch the government a little bit, in January 2013, more than a year and a half later, a commission was set up in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and the Commission completed its work on June 12, 2013, and submitted its report to the presidency. Even though more than a year passed, the government cried out, and I'm a victim of these wiretaps. I am also a victim of insects. Although he has said that the discussion of this report has been postponed until now, because this report -- as you can see in a moment -- will be exploited by the government and the Prime Minister. My dear friends have said that there is a lawlessness to be ashamed of because the PM's party cannot be stopped at a group meeting. Yes, that's right; yes, if you can't prevent illegal wiretaps, it's a shame, and you should be ashamed, but the Prime Minister who said so immediately turned around and said with great pride that every step of our president was followed and followed. However, when the insects in the prime minister's office appeared, the possibility that the dirty work of power would be deciphered rose, then everyone's skirts caught fire, especially because of bribes and corruption that occurred on December 17, 2013, the end of this business began to come to light. Of course, this could have been brought up a long time ago. Why was he brought in today, why was he kept waiting until today? Because we have a presidential election ahead of us, the AKP is always after what I exploit. I'm waiting here for the Prime Minister to get up in the square and do victim literature again, we'll see, we'll see. After this report was discussed here, Mr. Prime Minister, I was also resting in the squares for the presidency, and they put bugs in my office. Oh, these are, uh, parallel, ew. Is he going to say propaganda? We'll see all this together and we'll consider it. So far, you've taken into account what's in your political interest, and today, politically, you've brought it up because it's in your best interest. But if you had brought it up as soon as the report was over, we wouldn't have felt that way, and we wouldn't have accused you like that. Therefore, my dear friends, I am concerned that this matter will be subject to abuse. Yes, we're concerned, but the abuse expert at the Prime Minister's office, Zat, has started to complain about listening, which means what we're saying is true. So, my dear friends, do these listenings, these listenings that are useful to the power, remind you of an old saying? In fact, we can modify this proverb a little bit more, let the snake that doesn't touch me live a thousand. There's a saying that if it doesn't touch you, even the serpent that serves me, we can change it, thanks to you. When he started touching you, your skirts caught fire. Well, the commission worked, made a report. I wonder what should be done in accordance with this report, and now I'd like to take some time off. My dear friends, you will do very simple things, we will do them together. Let's consider four important points together and work on them. If a wiretap is against the law, it must be fought. For this reason, since 2011, there has been a proposal from Mr. Reza Turmen, who has added to the CMK 174, and says: "In the case of the court, which the judge has denied the indictment, he puts illegal evidence as one of them. I mean, if you've made an illegal wiretap, it is absolutely impossible for you to use it if you've obtained illegal evidence. The bill's on the shelf, you're gonna dust it down, we're gonna do it right now, if you're not gonna abuse this report and if you're sincere. That's the first thing you'll do. We all need to get rid of the illegal wiretaps right now. Two: If the wiretap decision was made by a judge, if it is in accordance with the law, then the procedure is to find out how legal the judge's decision was made, so we saw judges that he also signed under his own phone, and we saw that he had some documents brought to the judge by saying "terrorism," and other phone numbers added after the signature. Why? Because there's a categorical in here, and there's no name in front of the phone numbers presented to the judge, there's a confidentiality clause. Therefore, the judge does not even know who he has decided to listen to. So in order to prevent that, we need to immediately take into our internal law what the European Court of Human Rights needs to be about to listen to, and it's not difficult. We're not going to abuse this job, we're really defending the rule of law and we're sincere. If you say that the European Court of Human Rights has guided you to it, we've made you an offer. What does the European Court of Human Rights say? It says: "If a judge makes a decision to listen, the quality of the crime must be written openly in the decision to listen. " The European Court of Human Rights also says you'll have to write a wiretap period, brother. You can't listen to ads, you've written a crime of terror, you've got to listen to my father. Pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it on, pass it He says it's out of the question, and he shows you what to do. Come quickly, let's make these decisions and pass them on to our internal law. Thirdly, the most important thing we have to do is to make sure that the crime talks don't get sorted out. So, the judge makes a decision to listen, and he makes this decision based on universal law, international law, and the proposals of the European Court of Human Rights, and you listen to these people, but between these hearings, there are non-criminal conversations. I mean, he's talking to his wife, he's talking to someone else, he's got nothing to do with the crime. This must be sorted out, and for that, it is sufficient to add a special sentence to the Penal Code, but not to abuse it again. It's possible for me to take what the Prime Minister said out of the lists of the general, general, general, and present it to your attention as well. I would also like to present to you the people who have not stepped forward for the solution, just saying "parelel" in the squares and "parelel" in order to exploit it. Fourth, maybe one of the most important things we have to do is to establish a relationship between listening and the press. Look, a judge made a decision in accordance with the rules of the ECHR, in accordance with our recommendation in Article One, Article Two. Then, you've removed the non-criminal conversations between these two people, and you've begun to process them. However, the press has somehow seized it, and should it spread it or not... here, we have to take freedom of the press in democratic societies, and we have to decide that in democratic societies, the press is free, and that it can use this information, but that there may be some obstacles to the issues that seriously abuse personal rights. And when I say that, I need to remind you that the criticism of politicians can't be judged by normal people. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0039par0032	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0040par0036	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Really, we're discussing the report of the research commission established by our Parliament on a very important matter. However, we argue in this view. The value of a subject is measured by how it is perceived by the authorities. Today, we are discussing the report of the commission, which has been set up to investigate the causes and consequences of the alleged violation of privacy in Turkey: We have discussed this commission report on the hearing of the Prime Minister's office as of last week's hearing, the rebellion against the release of the listeners by the judiciary. But it's not new. A commission established in January 2013 in the first month of 2013. There were allegations at the time that the Prime Minister's office had been bugged. In fact, as far as the newspapers are concerned, the insects placed in Turkey, the Turkish nation, the police in the Prime Minister's office, are being caught this time. The cops who put them are being investigated, the judge finds them not guilty, the prosecutor and the judge releases them. Then the Prime Minister says: "The Prime Minister's office will be heard and the Prime Minister's office will be bugged, the relevant Prime Minister's Board will gather all the information, but the judiciary will release them. How can you release them?" Here, this report comes after that. That's why we have the opportunity, a freak, to identify a pathetic situation on this occasion. Dear friends, privacy is a matter of civility, of being democratic, of being a state of law, of being a legal state of human rights and freedom. This issue is clearly defined in the relevant articles of our constitution. In addition, not only in our Constitution, but in the 20th, 21st, and 22nd Articles of the Constitution, the privacy of private life, the immunity of housing and the freedom of communication have been established as an indispensable fundamental right and freedom of freedom. The same issue was defined as a common value in Article 12 of the Human Rights Document, and again in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, but Turkey, unfortunately, even listening to the Prime Minister's office, which I say in the prime minister's statement: there is a file on the President of the People's General Staff, and there is a file on Mr. Chief of Staff. It turns out I don't know if it's time for the President of Turkey, the Chief of Staff, the plain citizen, but...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0041par0043	He's probably got that, too.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0040par0044	...all over Turkey has been bugged, monitored, filed, waiting to be used as a means of printing as a threat and blackmail in someone's vaults, someone's drawers. We have brought Turkey to this point. At the end of 12 years, the Prime Minister's service is an expression of weakness. What would you do if they followed your homes, your bedrooms, what would you do? Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister; you run Turkey; you are the most in the position to be upset, not to be upset at where Turkey is coming from, not to be sad, not to me. This is what Turkey is coming to. Does such a state have any weight on the international plane? Dear friends, this motion, these motions, the demands of the board of these research commissions go back to 2013, but in the first month of 2013, the commission is issued, and in June, it gives its report. We also need to discuss the report. As a friend of yours who's been following them for a long time, we're looking at an unprecedented example of a report. These investigative commission reports, the Parliamentary report, are therefore a joint report. However, each group here has written a statement of opposition. There are some very heavy, troubling allegations on the 3-4-page challenge written by two of our deputies from our party, and there are even 14 proposals. Therefore, the report did not aim to create a common mind to solve a problem. This report, introduced in June 2013, made by several experts, listening to the organization, seems to have been inconsistencies or has not been taken into account by the government exactly one year later, in the office of the Prime Minister, in June 2014, the insects placed by bodyguards are caught, and the Prime Minister listened to my office screaming. There is another trial, a persecution ceremony in front of the community. You have no right, dear MPs. You have to at least apologize to the people for what you've brought Turkey into, what you've brought into it, where we've come from. Dear friends, if there's a lack of confidence in the community, where the bedroom is monitored, where there's no loyalty, there's no trust in the government, there's no peace. The thief broke into my house, I asked the police if I should sell the house, change the house, change the bedroom? Because I know that thief didn't break in to steal something, he went in to plant something. Dear friends, we need to defend some values carefully. When you do it to someone, it'll be a day to ignore them, and they'll knock on your door. If the government could make the necessary response, the AKP's government would not complain today without listening and monitoring, Turkey would not have come to this point. On that day, just now, as the Dear People's Councilman said...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0042par0048	And they used it, and they used it.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0040par0049	...a means of abuse against the parties, an instrument of accusation, an instrument of election propaganda, and today the same disgrace may knock on your door. What's happening is happening to our country. In our very basic freedoms, freedom of communication, the privacy of private life, if we can't have security, if we can't trust it, there's no honor, joy, satisfaction in living in Turkey. You've made Turkey uninhabitable. I'm reporting you to our people. This report won't solve any trouble. The report is insufficient, the report is unofficial. This report was used for another purpose, and the timing was chosen for it.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0042par0052	Prohibition...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0040par0053	So as the National Movement Party, I don't know what our group will decide about this report, but I don't think we'll support it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0043par0056	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0044par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. The other day, Mr. Prime Minister, those who put my beetles in screaming release. There were five people who planted insects, and they were left behind. He said, "They are left behind." Then we looked up, and someone was arrested, saying, "Those who planted insects in the evening." I'm just saying, do you have to be a wiretap victim in this country, or a tape, or a blackmail victim, or a prime minister in order to go into your privacy, your phones, your house, to be observed, monitored, recorded, captured in this country? Guys, there are 1 Prime Minister in this country, so there are 77 million people, what about the others? Look, since the day we arrived, we've warned the Parliament that the attackers did this. He's done the gang. We've said it. It was Gladio. The deep government did the wiretaps. He made a kontgerilla. We said. Technology, Internet, communications improved. Bugs are free on the market, you can buy listening bugs for free, $50, it's that simple -- and they have detective offices, private security 500,000 border -- anyone can listen to anyone. The General Staff intelligence was separate before, the gendarme's intelligence was separate, the police's intelligence was separate, and there was the GES Command, you know, all of this could be bugged.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0045par0061	But Congress can't listen, they won't listen.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0044par0062	The TİB is new, everyone can listen... and the MPs in the parliament complain without listening, but they don't listen to themselves. Now, it's hot, it's nice outside, there's flowers in the garden, there's shade, there's tea coffee coming, and they don't listen. Why? Because it's not their problem, it's theirs to listen when they're at the door.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0046par0064	We're here.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0044par0065	You guys are here, and I appreciate what's going on here, and I'm sorry, I mean, there's five percent of people here. Now, here, from micro-sound recorders to digital, voice-phone recorders to spy pen, glasses to key chains, cameras to micro-ears, listening to computers without listening to GSM media, all kinds of devices are on the street. I, myself, was a member of the Research Commission, I asked the Police and Gendarme Intelligence Directors, and I said, "Do you know that these devices are being sold in the market?" They said, "How many cents?" They said, "No money?" I've been on the Internet, I've seen a place, I've been looking, I've bargained alive in front of them, I've given you 60 lira, we're sending you the best wire right now, whenever you want. I said, "Is it not a crime?" No, brother, the ground thing is legal. I mean, I made it alive in the House Commission. Now, here, where we come from, can you talk about personality rights, privacy, privacy? We are part of the European Convention on Human Rights. In the 2001 Constitutional Amendments, freedom of communication, housing immunity, respect for the family, all of this is under constitutional control, but whatever wisdom, the President is resting, the Prime Minister is resting, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Judges are listening, and there are no rest left in this country.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0047par0069	The Prime Minister is listening to all of it.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0044par0070	Now, we've asked, we've investigated, we've submitted this motion, and after this motion, the Commission has been established, and we've become members of this commission. So, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, we did some research with friends, and we went to Security Intelligence, and we said, "How do you listen to us?" They made fun of us, they showed us a computer screen, a room, a room, a card, a card, a card, a card, a card, and now you know that we're going into the Capitol rooms, and now we're going to go in with our card, and then there's a mouse, and then there's a screen, and they said, "We know how you're listening to it." Then we asked: "How can you not listen?" There are two kinds of listening; one: there is forensic listening. We need a court order for a wiretap. I'm applying for a court order, and I've got samples of this, and I've given it to the Commission, and the judge signed it under his own phone. They wrote down their own phone, so the judge made a wiretap about his phone. I gave it to the Commission. After that, journalists wrote in code names, the telephone number of Pasteur, Pasteur. The decision was made to listen to Mehmet Altan and others, other journalists, and so did they. There are decisions about MPs. Friends, the MP has immunity in this country, he doesn't rest; everyone knows that, but a Minister, the Minister of the Interior, came to the bench, and said: "I have listened to the MPs. Idris Naim Şahin, former Interior Minister, everyone knows that. Now, that Home Secretary tells the new Home Secretary: "You are listening to us," he says to the former Interior Minister. "The new Interior Minister says: "Oo, what have we seen in your day?" Friends, secret witnesses of private court, wiretaps, secret prosecutors, secret investigations, confidential files, thousands of people have been put in this country, imprisoned, arrested for a long time, not brought to trial for three years. Long imprisonment has afflicted this country, the right to a fair trial has been violated, the anxiety that there is no justice has dominated the environment. What's going on? We're looking at the Constitutional Court making one violation at a time, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, and then there's a sports fix. Now, we're looking at long arrests, fair trial, the mayor and politicians are under arrest in the TK case. Why aren't they decided? No, there's a double standard for a people who, when they're Kurds, they're not citizens, they're discrimination... So, what's in the files? When we looked at the files on the ACK cases, we saw that they were out of forensic wiretaps, my friend. Law 2937 has a decree called preventive listening. This preventive listening, which MIT did from time to time, although with this latest MIT Law, the MIT can now do anything, so its authority, its borders, its everything. In every county, the governor, the chief of police and the commander can decide the interceptors, my friend. There's a preventive wiretap in the districts that's going down to the level of managers. Some of these preventive wiretaps are done through TIB, some of them are done over GSM companies, some of them are built in place, some of them are bugged. Then we investigated, 11 wiretaps are missing. Where are the forges of this state? Some say that Ankara is in the mayor's garage. Some say, I don't know, where. 11 wiretaps are missing; once it's gone, it's evaporated, it's like the last Malaysian plane just disappeared; still this country hasn't found it. This country still hasn't found the person who made the tape of Baykal. It's still an election operation for the MPP. It's not an event of a person, it's an organised force. If this is focused on hundreds of people, it's a multi-system, political, immoral criminal act, and it hasn't been found. How come he's not found? If someone's doing it, if someone's protecting it, they're not gonna find it. That's how it is, no perpetrators are found. If there are those behind the perpetrator who use the power and authority of the state, they won't be found. Let me be clear, we're very clear. I'd like to say to those who go after insects like that: there are many kinds of insects -- closed circuit bugs, telephone line bugs, city bugs, open circuit devices, optic insects, ultrasonic insects, radio frequency, ffectives, 3G bugs, but the worst insects are insects. You need to start cleaning up these bugs. Then the inhibitor will be bugged. From here, as a friend of yours who signed this research report -- we have a meeting now, we'll go to the Supreme Election Board -- how to prevent you from being so much more technical, not so much air mercury -- if asked in this country, Congress can end this secret listening in a week. I'll tell you all the examples of this right here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0048par0077	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0049par0080	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the Parliamentary Research Commission Report, which aims to establish measures relating to the Freedom of Communication, and the Secret of Private Life, 489 rows. In violation of the law and in its name, whether it's prevention or media listening, as a result, the secrecy of communication has been eliminated. In recent years, anti-law regulations have increased, which has continued despite efforts to address all criticism and violation of the law over the past few years. At first, the Justice Department stated that they were aware of these wiretaps and that the wiretaps were in accordance with the law, while the situation is already out of control. Dear lawmakers, the main objective of the investigation of evidence in a democratic legal state is the law, but this goal and duty are no excuse for legitimising and violating human rights violations. As a matter of fact, Article 22 of the Constitution is the rule that each person has the freedom of communication. The secrecy of communication is essential. The European Convention on Human Rights and the Protection of Basic Freedoms, which we are on the side of and by approving internal law, has been enjoined by the rule that everyone has the right to respect their communication. The intervention of a public authority on this right is said to be only if it is required in a democratic society, in order to ensure national security, public safety, the country's economic well-being, the protection of living and order, the protection of crime, the protection of health and morality or other rights and freedoms. Dear MPs, in Turkey, the elected, appointed, media members, citizens who wage political struggles, almost everyone is able to rest, thus the right to freedom of communication and privacy of private life has been eliminated. As a matter of fact, Mr. İdris Naim Şahin, former Interior Minister of the Peace and Democracy Party, who has been heard by lawmakers in the KCK operations, has been confessed to by former Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin, while in the past two years, the information that 7,000 people have been heard in total as a terrorist organization has been covered by newspaper headlines. The determination of measures to determine and prevent violations to freedom of communication and privacy is, in fact, an issue that should have been on the agenda in our country for years, while such a commission has been established as a result of the exposure of hidden wiretaps by members of the EC PARTI, a key indicator of selfish political attitudes in Turkey regarding freedoms. Dear lawmakers, the AK PARTI government, as in the example of special authorities courts, have remained silent until freedoms were restricted, obstructions and political liquidation initiatives turned to their own power, and it is not appropriate for us to intervene in all forms of lawlessness, sir, even to intervene in judicial authorities. Similar initiatives have been able to applaud with their slogans, but when they turned to their own power, they were able to cut off the so-called patron of democracy and specificity. Mr. President, not in the past, but in what form have government officials been talking about the organisation, which has been accused of secret listening, which is called the parallel structure, which this organization has carried out in all its superficial terms, are talking about great dangers, but government officials have been careful about how these parallel structures have committed, how they have been charged with these crimes, where they have been encouraged and supported by people and institutions, in what forms they have been given these supports, who or by whom they have been entrusted with this organization, who or by whom. Dear MPs, all political parties, all MPs, and all political individuals, are using the concept of ▪democracy. But I think it is necessary to ask: Do we want democracy and freedom, fundamental rights only for one group, a certain political group, an ethnic or religious identity, or do we want them equally for everyone who is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey and for all different political trends? The answer to this question will actually reveal our sense of democracy, our perception of freedoms, our perception of justice. Dear lawmakers have been detained as part of 17 December and 25 December corruption operations and have been replaced by government officials in the face of dramatic images that have been reflected in the form of fucking children, although they are adults, including thousands of police and dozens of judges. In recent weeks, however, the skull of a 15-year-old boy named Abraham Aras, who had been in Adana, had been separated from his body by a police bomb at close range, and Abraham had lost his life. For Ibrahim Aras, government officials have failed to show even 1 percent of their reaction to the detention of their children for a period of time, or government officials have not been able to address the concept of the wife of innocence, which they have repeatedly expressed regarding those taken into custody as part of the 17th and 25 December operations, as well as other prisoners who have been unjustly imprisoned in prisons during their administrations. So we see that the concepts, such as government, democracy, the state of law and freedom of persons, only matter when there's a crack in its power. Mr. President, good lawmakers, freedom of communication should not be prevented, as it has been repaid in universal law. Any attempt to prevent freedom of communication should surely be rewarded in the legal office. On the other hand, it should also be noted that the coverage of corruption operations such as 17 December and 25 December should be handled in different categories and meticulously. In addition to those who violate the principle of freedom of communication and privacy, the public must be undermined and unfair personal gain by using the influence of institutional authorities as a means of fighting corruption and exposing corruption and corruption, and the perpetrators of corruption, bribery and daring must also be investigated with urgency and justice. Dear lawmakers, perhaps a political stance can be mentioned in principle when the performance in the fight against freedom of communication and the secrecy of private life can also be demonstrated in the fight against corruption and bribery. Otherwise, we can't discuss the principle of transparency of management when it's being carried out with the intention of covering investigations on freedom of communication and the secrecy of private life, corruption and bribery. It's not about someone being arrested and released. We, like all citizens, want laws that refer to justice, judges that seek justice, and a government that respects them. Mr. President, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party and myself, on the basis of the commission report, we will continue to give every legitimate challenge, as it has been today, to ensure that people's rights and freedoms can be achieved within the universal standards of law in Turkey. In the same way, one of the things that I have to stress is that a government is open to accountability, controlability, and that it is ready to be audited, and that a government occupys important points in its report card of democratism and transparency. Because whether a power is manageable or not is also a mirror of the politics and actions of power in other areas. On this basis, the commission report says it is necessary to take the necessary steps taken by the AK PARTI government as a whole of opposition sheriffs, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0050par0094	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Antalya MP Gürkut Acar. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0051par0098	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Parliamental Research Commission to determine and prevent violations against freedom of communication and privacy. I salute you all. My dear friends, this report is in fact an unbecoming report from the Turkish Grand National Assembly. It has been brought forth from the forbidden, and it is a matter of distraction and deception. In particular, this report does not carry anything about the privacy of private life, the most important part of human life. My dear friends, for years there have been complaints about these confidential records, but you have taken no steps as the Justice and Development Party. You never complained about the opposition being bugged. The Prime Minister used them in the polls, the Minister of Justice, who should have brought justice to justice, hoped for illegal wiretaps. Now, the Prime Minister complains about the bug, does he have the right? Isn't the Justice and Development Party responsible for this, Mr. Prime Minister? My dear friends, look, let us all consider some of the issues in this report. Here, in this report, this Commission is said to have worked for four months, but this Commission has not worked this far. A month's extension was also expected to be extended for further work, while a month's extension was used for writing time. During the work, the programmes of subcommittee heads were not provided for more than two weeks, but were wasted for almost a month and a half, the work of the Commission was blocked and missed from the public. My dear friends, in particular, have not been brought in or heard here by the representatives of the opposition party, despite being requested by the Commission, have not been called to the Commission; the institutions and organisations that have been called have not given the Commission sufficient information and documents. My dear friends are not included in this report about illegal wiretaps here in our country and why authorities against criminals have failed to carry out their duties. Many issues have not been made clear because of the presentation of institution representatives with limited information and authority in the Commission. Here, privacy has been made transparent by covert wiretaps; there have been grounds for dishonor, accusations, and exclusion, without any moral or ethical sense. There have been heavy casualties due to these hidden wiretaps. Former Deputy Chief of Police, Emin Eraslan, who presented the commission, reportedly reportedly reportedly missing 11 listening devices, has not been investigated from what countries, where these vehicles were purchased from the companies of Israel, Canada, the United States, or Germany, and where they were used, and what procedures were carried out while importing, and how the money was paid, and how money was paid, and the claims that even a major city mayor used from these vehicles have not been investigated. My dear friends, it's very interesting, some trucks are entering Turkey from outside, but there's no way out. Some trucks are disappearing. While investigating what is happening in these trucks, Turkey is receiving listening tools, imported, but listening tools are lost in Turkey. There are unaccounted for listening devices. My dear friends, you see, despite the fact that TTNET-Phorm, Turkish Trust, has also been in the report, it has not been determined which documents have been used, and which procedures have been made, or not produced, by the EGO General Directorate of the two faulty certificates that have the authority to intervene in people's personal account movements, bank information, e-mails, correspondence. The statement of Sabri Long (Sabri Long) who submitted to the commission that all illegal operations carried out in Turkey were carried out by state officials, claiming that such a thing could not be done without the permission or will of the people in the institutions. My dear friends, the Justice and Development Party has not identified one of these official individuals today, even though it is clear that they are the official ones who are doing all these wiretaps. The commission report also covered that issue in a vague manner. First of all, Turkey should have been in this report in particular, where illegal monitoring and listening have been made, for what purposes, for whom it has been served, for where and how expenses have been paid, for how its covered funds have been used in the last decade. There is nothing in this report about the number of foreign intelligence organisations in Turkey, the working areas, what activities they have in Turkey, how long they will stay in Turkey, how their costs will be paid, whether they will use covered funds, whether the Turkish government knows about their activities. My dear friends, the Commission's application for people to listen to has failed to meet the demands for people to listen to, whether they are applying for the Commission as individuals or the members of the Commission have asked them to listen. My dear friends, this report was made entirely to cover up the routine, to defend the ban, and no one who should take heavy advantage of this report has been able to benefit from it. See, the report also does not include what tools and instruments are used in Turkey to listen, whether these tools and equipment have inventory, how they are imported, where they are imported, and for what purposes they are used, and the privacy of private life is completely violated. Turkey has suffered a great deal of pain, receipts have been made, and no account has been asked of its chargers. The privacy of private life has been severely violated. Personal information, data is being published, information that has access to these information is mine, but I didn't leak it. But all of the information from these wiretaps is in the press, and these covert wiretaps are making people look bad, they're charging people in advance, and then they're making legal proceedings about them. My dear friends, as the report emphasizes the importance of keeping the logbook record of Hrant Dink's murder, there is no mention of how or by whom his log record has been changed, particularly the subject of counterfeit cell towers, the inventory of A15, A25 vehicles, and the purpose of which they were used, and which data were served to whom. It was not included in the report as to how the operations against political party executives were conducted, by whom, by whom, and with whom the findings were shared. My dear friends, there's nothing in this report about where, how, by whom, by whom, the media, how private life was leaked, how it was declared so cruelly, that would have caused him to resign as leader of a party. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was supposed to find the answers to all of this, but nothing was included in the report. This report has been released from the forbidden defense court. My dear friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is no longer an institution that will protect everyone's rights, trust everyone's, and help everyone when their rights are violated. Unfortunately, in Turkey, people have no authority to give up their rights. Politicians put objective law aside, and the Ark cleared us. Finally, I would like to say that being a majority in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not a cover-up of everything that's going on against him. He'll turn, he'll turn, he'll show up here one day, those who gave those orders, and those who can't account for being in power today will be accountable tomorrow. I salute you all with such thoughts.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0052par0120	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Congressman Bilal Flightr. Here you go, Mr. Flyer.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0053par0124	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion by the Council of Ministers and Parliamentary Research Commission Report on Freedom of Communication and the Protection of Private Life, for the purposes of establishing measures related to the Decisive and Precludement of Violations. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are as important as the person's safety of life and property as the individual's own inner world, private life. Personal life is as important and untouchable as life and property. The privacy of privacy and immunity of private life are organised in the Constitution, and are also protected in universal law, particularly in the European Convention on Human Rights. Although the protection of private life depends on legal guarantees, it is a fact that it is unlikely to be protected by the technology that is developing in the age of IT. All over the world, it is known that many people, especially politicians, have been victimized by the violation of freedom of communication. It's such a victimization that a person's private life, his private state, his inner life, whether he's secretly recorded through the press, or he's exposed in front of a third person, it's an act of self-indulgence, it's an act of self-inflicted self-inflicted, it's an act of killing while living. For whatever reason, violating private lives is never acceptable. No matter who is done, in such a situation, everyone must act primitively, not even against his opponent, his enemy, even if it is against him, must be opposed to the path of righteousness. Even so, people's personal lives during the Internet age are under much greater threat today. We carry the danger in our pockets. It's very easy to record private lives as audio and video. The cell phones we keep close to us make our lives easier, while they're always prepared as a threat to our privacy. At the point of the protection of private life, the state will take every precaution, and it is important that sanctions be deterrent. In 2012, the amendment to the Turkish Penal Code increased sentences for violation of privacy. In the event of this happening through the press, the same punishment has been made available to the press. But I believe that there should be a public sensibility, a consciousness. To start in kindergarten, education institutions need to be taught that violating someone else's personal life is a major crime and sin. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the most important task here falls to the political institution because politicians are most exposed to the violation of privacy. In fact, the political institution is not exactly giving a good test here. Whether or not it's true, whether it's legal or not, the fact that wiretaps from somewhere in particular are displayed in sheets and sheets is a sign of political decay just to wear out their opponents. In the past, he has done this against this, and this is what happened today. None of us should make excuses for it. Wherever it comes from, wherever it comes from, we must oppose it with a principled stance. However, it is a crime for individuals to be visually or voicely identified and recorded in a private life event that is not possible to be seen by others in secret or in other ways. Despite all these legal regulations and effective criminal sanctions in our country, there appears to be some problems stemming from both legal regulations and practice. It has recently been a painful reality in Turkey, where illegal conversations have been heard, recorded and sometimes used against the law through the press, where political results have been sought. In the eyes of the citizen, the fact that certain public officials are involved in illegal listening using their duties as an abuse of duty has resulted in a state-run crime. Because there have been some very serious allegations that illegal wiretaps were made by government facilities. At this point, we were not very satisfied with what we had been told in some of the institutions we had studied as members of the Commission. So, in December 17th and 25th, it turns out that illegal wiretaps were made by a network of traitors that infiltrated the state. A wiretap scandal that was recently released to the press shows how serious this issue is. Many politicians are stated to have been contacted by different names and some terrorist organizations and listened to by court order. In a similar event, thousands, maybe tens of thousands of people had been heard under false names. The legal process continues. Surely those who commit such immorality will answer in judgment.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0054par0130	You were clapping yesterday!
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0055par0131	Eleven years in a lap together!
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0053par0132	Especially at this point, the need for a new arrangement is seen as essential, and the decision to listen has been made by amendments to Article 135. Listening decisions will only be unanimous by severe criminal courts. Am I being listened to near the entire community? It is unacceptable in the democratic state of law to have a concern. As soon as this perception is eliminated, there must be a safe, transparent, law-abiding environment that does not violate the rights and freedom of another, which is respected for the protection and privacy of one's people and freedom. In order to maintain privacy and privacy of individuals, it is also important that the current penalties are deterrent of such crimes. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the Parliamentary Research Commission, established to determine and determine the measures for the detection and prevention of violations to freedom of communication and privacy, was established with the common will and consensus of all political parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The establishment of such a commission has raised great interest in the public, creating an expectation at the point of determining the solutions to the problem and the legal, employment and other necessary administrative measures that need to be taken. Therefore, our Commission, established by the joint will of the ruling and opposition parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, has completed its work and has uncovered the report we discussed today. During the commission's work, lawmakers in power and opposition have worked in harmony with a great sacrifice, each member of the Commission has made a very serious contribution to the report. Opposition MPs also have issues to consider in opposition statements. At this point, the same common will and determination must continue in order to protect the privacy of private life and eliminate violations of freedom of communication. When it is done against its opponents, it must be remembered that one day they will be exposed to such danger. It's a general sensitivity of society. All measures must be taken for the protection of private life. I wish this report would lead to further developments at the point of the end of these violations, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0056par0138	Thank you, Mr. Flyer. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz... Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0057par0142	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the views of the National Movement Party in the interview of the report of the parliamentary research commission for illegal wiretaps. I salute your committee. Dear MPs, this bench, the nation's bench, of course, should be a platform where people's problems are addressed. People don't cheat. All conversations here must be sincere and decisive. ▪ Friends should see them in shopping. To gain time with their attitude or to act as if they were not doing business, for one thing, disrespecting national will. There is a crime that the opposition has said for years, but after December 17th-26 corruption incidents, which the government has often expressed with its life: illegitimate listening that violates the constitutional right of human communication freedom and the privacy of private life. It's no longer a bet. The Prime Minister, who is in charge of the country's administration, admits to the Speaker, that there is no one left that we have not listened to from person to family to child. The TİB explains that 510,000 people were court-ordered in 2012-2013. Except for the illegal wiretaps. The records of pre-2012 in TİB have been erased, dear friends. History makes sense. Do I need to remind you that the illegal wiretap traps and perpetrators set up for the National Movement Party in 2011 have not yet been found, and that it is a duty of honor to expose this corrupt scheme, but that the AKP has laid down its ear on these events? The national Minister of Defence, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, must not have allowed 510,000 people to rest, saying that the number is not reasonable, the measure is gone. Yes, dear lawmakers, the measure has gone awry. I wonder if anyone's sitting around right now making sure you're not getting any rest. Citizens nervous, society restless. In a society of paranoia. Everyone's afraid of their own phones, their own computers. Yes, O AKP, from where to where. As everyone knows, the wind sows, the storm reaps. If the Prime Minister and AKP spokesmen who ruled the country were to react like a man to leave the National Movement Party out of Parliament in 2011, you would have had at least one word of language in your hand, sir, if it had not been for my brother, the general general general. Unfortunately, the government remained silent, even applauded, as if it would approve of those who carried out these immoral scenarios. Again, the dramatic problem here is that the government has not put forth any effort to prevent these illegal wiretaps and surveillance and to bring out those responsible. The prime minister, who introduced Internet bans on his talks with his son, supported the practice by allowing immoral plots against the National Movement Party and by allowing it to be published on the Internet for days on end, such as a series of films, and by not producing the necessary measures, he is openly political in charge. For the three votes the Prime Minister will receive for the members of parliament who have resigned, he has taken advantage of their dignity and dignity in the squares without thinking about family structures; today he has shot himself, his family and his ministers, like boomerang. The more I say my personal life, the more people yell in chorus, "What is special, general?" There's a lot to be said for that. Dear lawmakers, we know that it is urgent for the people to come up with a solution for peace without saying, "Oh, thank God!" That's what this Commission was for. Unfortunately, after these immoral listenings, surveillances shot themselves, AKP has come to his senses, after these disgraces have risen to their feet. In the beginning, I wish the AKP had been willing to listen to the opposition's disturbances and work together to deal with this disgrace. Just as he rejected the motion to investigate in the case of Soma Mining Fire and accepted it fifteen days later, the AKP, who was delighted when listening to another party, cried out when it came to him. And now he's trying to create a public opinion by accusing people of something. The AKP sees the truth through trial and error. In the meantime, honors have been put under the table, moral values have been put on the market. That doesn't matter to the Prime Minister, as long as the political vote is bonded, as long as the opposition is put in a difficult position. Members of parliament, this report on the Commission, mostly by AKP MPs, has been opened today in the General Assembly; unfortunately, it is in front of a General Assembly with 3-5 MPs in parliament. The General Assembly has opened its talks, but unfortunately -- again -- AKP lawmakers have kept parliamentary ranks free of the AKP Group, which is responsible for running the country. When examined, it would appear that the report brought on today's agenda of the Assembly General Assembly is insufficient, both in terms of working methods and the main reasons for the matter. The 180 pages of the 205-page report are about international law, constitutional and legal legislation, book information. Who are the responsible for these immoral listenings? The Commission has never asked its own questions. And yet, it is not possible for these studies to come to fruition, since those who make these illegal wiretaps are not exposed or punished. It's been asked by the AKP to cover it up. The existing legislation actually has the necessary sanctions for those who commit these violations. There's nothing missing here, but there's something wrong with the practice, dear friends. It is the administration that enforces the law, and the government carries the political responsibility of the judiciary. In this report, the government's responsibility has never been mentioned, as the problem of the application was divided into the section of legislation for a book to cheer up with the understanding of a bag full of words. The issues of law enforcement and responsibility in this area have never been touched, as well as why the gendarmes, the MIT, were not able to do or do the work of the TİB, and why the criminals were not identified. The public prosecutors and the judiciary are not involved, what they expect is never considered. And since so many questions have been unanswered, the government, which holds the political responsibility of all these institutions, has become suspicious that the government is insolving illegal wiretaps. Law states, of course, have a need to shed light on these doubts. Dear friends, unlawful listening and intervening in privacy may be in three ways: either it may be legal wiretaps, but the public official who listens has overstepped his purpose; either these legal institutions can be used for illegal purposes, or the illegal wiretaps committed by intelligence organisations. Since there's not much trouble in the matter, why is illegal listening common in our country? In order to answer this question correctly, you have to pay attention to the trifecta; it's either the authority that decides to listen, or it's either the neglect or the intention of listening institutions. Congressmans, there are many ways to intervene in private life or perform unlawful listening. Of course, there are urban legends about it. Everyone believes they're resting, and if 76 million people are resting, there's something wrong here, too. When a society comes to this point, those who run the country have a great deal to do with it. When modern countries say not to interfere in private life, but to respect freedom of communication, we are at ease. It must have been a great primitive to have a wiretap, to be put into action immediately, I suppose. TİB was established in 2005, and a year later, listening started. The collection of wiretaps under one roof is expected to be done within the framework, in accordance with the law, and between 2006 and 2010, violations have rapidly increased, lawlessness has become a legal guise and has collapsed into society's life as a nightmare, an empire of fear has been created in almost all of the nation. The nationalist Action Party's earlier research proposals stressed the government's lack of the necessary measures and attempts to cover up the incident through negligence and negligence, often emphasised on the government's reluctance and negligence in exposing its accomplices to the Nationalist Action Party prior to the 2011 elections. There are serious doubts, serious concerns, that the prime minister, who has done nothing against unlawful listening, has been served publicly to create the usual infrastructure of allegations of parallel structure, which will later be expressed by the insects that have emerged in the listening office and the storms that have been stormed at this minival. The release of all 11 suspects in the court on charges of bugging Prime Minister Erdogan's office makes these predictions strong. After that, as you all know, a judge followed the Prime Minister's instructions in his group speech to fulfill his request, re-arrested five of them in the evening. Moreover, if they had listened to Erdoğan's Prime Minister, who knows what they had done to the citizens. So, Mr. Prime Minister, what has been done to the citizen in the country you run? If it wasn't a scarecrow, why didn't you stop it, why couldn't you protect its citizens? The Prime Minister's office is the solution, not the place to complain. In particular, the top office of the state, the Chief of Staff, the President of Parliament, the President of Parliament, sir, the rest of the headquarters of political parties, the fact that he's brought up claims that concern the security of the political parties, and then he won't mention them again, if it's not planned, then there's suspicion that an infrastructure is being prepared for operations later. Because the Prime Minister seems to be lying on his ear again, as usual, about pursuing the allegations, exposing the responsible. These days, before these grave claims are made public, the valued MPs stand in the middle. Neither the authorities nor the Prime Minister have taken a step to enlighten the public about these allegations. Why is the Prime Minister hiding what he knows from the public? Is it by this claim that prior to the presidential election, as he did before every election, he is cunningly taking some political advantage with abuse, abuse, or sending messages to some rival forces? These allegations, which raise dozens of doubts and questions for both sides, raise a claim in the eyes of the citizens, as did the AKP's involvement in tape politics. The main concern and sadness is the production of politics through listening and surveillance, such as a political tool in the 12-year AKP administrations. The commission has been silenced, excommunicated after making an impression that it has been working with discipline on illegal listening for some time, making presentations that have been dysfunctional, giving concrete information in recent periods. Because these experts have touched the Zulfüyüra; it can't be done without the government's knowledge that it can be done in such an organized manner, because they say it's the government's responsibility. While there is a principle such as "do not go from madness to the accused," first create the accused, then collect evidence, and then it's shifted to an illegal ground, such as the gathering of evidence. The alleged plot against Turkish Armed Forces has not been resolved. The government didn't take it personally. They didn't even worry about it. Prosecutors and judges didn't say let's hear it from the plaintiff, who is also a member of parliament, who is right next to the Prime Minister. If they know something and they don't say it, it's the murder of the state of law, but without knowing it, without being ignorant, if they're accusing it, shouldn't the judges and prosecutors at least have brought this person to justice in order to protect their own honor? But unfortunately, the government has played blind, deaf, and dumb, and the judgment has closed its eyes. The provisions of Articles 20 and 22 of the Constitution and of the Articles of the Law of Punishment are not really below EU standards. However, the problem -- as I just said -- is with the enforcers, the problem is with the government. If the government doesn't take any steps to expose and punish criminals in the face of illegal listening, its silence means it's sanctioned by embezzlement of the law. This attitude gives courage to those who want to listen illegally. ▪ A competent prime minister and powerful government, who, for some reason, have seen this area, have been silent and play the embarrassing young man in front of them. This is the position of the Prime Minister and the AKP. The AKP commissioners have forgotten that listening in the legal state is exceptional, that it should not be applied at all if possible, and have sought legal legislation on how to get them to listen at all times. In December 17th-25th corruption, Erdogan and his ministers were even opposed to court-ordered legal wiretaps. So they're not looking at whether listening is legal or reasonable, but whether it's about the Prime Minister or the AKP. Erdogan and AKP, who remained silent during unlawful wiretaps for CHP, tried to remove a suit from it, even politically, were launched when they stepped on their feet. The prime minister reiterates that the opposition is using the control function of the Parliament as unwarranted by the opposition, being charged with political control. Since these listenings have not shown their motive, the victim opposition has thus far emerged as a result that no castle has been taken. The opposition has asked hundreds of questions and remained unanswered to investigate these immoral listening. He has submitted dozens of research proposals, not enough support from the AKP, a majority of them in parliament. The ability to listen to the TİB has been created to create a mysterious and frightening image of an institution hidden from the public, even how its ability to intervene. Today, the TİB is the only agency in charge of controlling all communication, especially with recent regulations, but the only example in the world is that it is closed to opposition control, and the public is concerned whether this institution does its work within the limits of the law. A total of 75 million mobile phones in our country are concerned about the detection of talks and texting, and its ability to automatically be converted to a legal basis with court decisions and three-month periods. Now, unlike what happened in democratic countries in Turkey, listening is normal and ordinary. Instead of creating democratic and questionable grounds for these issues, the AKP, which governs the country, is pursuing how it will benefit from these hearings, whether it is moral or not. There have been nearly hundreds of wiretap scandals during the AKP period. With the Prime Minister's statement, all institutions are being heard by thousands of senior officials, political administration. Tragically, the confessed AKP rules this country. He sits in the so-called decision office, but he doesn't take it personally. Unofficially listening to terrorism, drugs, algebra and threats must be stopped, using listenings that are important to our national security. In this regard, additional measures must be made, including individual responsibilities of authorities and judges who make decisions. Cyber security plans are needed for national security. It is vital that those who decide to listen and apply are subject to multiple control mechanisms. Dear friends, it is not possible for criminals to be exposed by this report, unfortunately. So we find this report inadequate as the National Movement Party. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit03spe0058par0173	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0058par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the general discussion on Parliamentary Research Commission Report 489 rows. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to Denizli MP Ilhan Cihaner. Here you go, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0059par0007	I salute everyone. Now, of course, in both technical terms and in legal terms, the fellow lawmakers who spoke ahead of me said a lot of the words. I'm here 15-20 MPs, playing Parliamentary, not being mentioned, not falling back on again, but I think we've got citizens watching. So I'm going to stress a few things that our friend, who spoke specifically for the AKP before me -- in the lightest definition -- are wrong. For one thing, the commission worked in harmony. He said, "We didn't work in harmony." We tried to expose things, we tried to offer solutions; the AKP tried to cover it up. That's why we worked so well. There's no need to make a eunuch out of it. That's a lie. Second: The most clear proof of this is that there is nothing in this report about the judiciary, which is the main source of illegal listening, illegal violations, or rather the most important source. We asked: who made these decisions? Let the judges, prosecutors, at least those in charge of Ankara, Istanbul, inform us, what are the problems? How many decisions have been made, given by whom, none of which have been touched. It also shows the gaps in these seats on the day of the commission report, when such an important report was discussed. Now, the full name of the report is the Parliamentary Research Commission's Report, which aims to determine measures relating to freedom of information and privacy violations and prevention. It's what the public calls a listening commission, or a bug commission, and it's very cool, and it's very important. It's really important because today, when security anxiety leads to global paranoia, endless possibilities of technological development, even surveillance and the destruction of private life, the problem is really being discussed in all its dimensions, but our arguments and arguments are very different, I'm going to elaborate. First of all, I advise you to throw this report away because the report does not touch any real issues about this problem, and it does not say very satisfying things about technical methods or technical dimensions. Its technical size is of no importance anyway. If he wanted political will, if he had a sincere desire, it would easily be revealed with all its dimensions, and all the problems would be solved. They obviously don't want that. The reason why we throw the report into the trash can be explained in just one sentence, and he says in the conclusion of the report: "As a result of the work that our commission has done in every country, it is enough that we have found concrete, personal, and sometimes organised threats that can lead to freedom of communication and privacy, but we are all resting in public, we are being watched." In every country, as in every country, it could be in every country... the police of listening, watching, prosecutors, judges, and the people who have been leaving them at the mercy of a congregation and serving them as they came to their advantage. I wish they'd given an example of a country, a country that's been like this before. What does it say now, the spirit of the report? I mean, there is no concrete event, such a threat could exist. I mean, if there was one concrete case, they'd probably analyze it. But we know that earlier, from members of the Constitutional Court to prosecutors, from prosecutors to military commanders, a lot of people have been heard and served. The ones who didn't see any of this, the ones who wrote the report, the ones who voted against it, of course. And there was no legal decision on any of these examples, any of the hearings that had been made, and unlawful listening had already been served. Yeah, that's what it looks like. We may never know who has been threatened by identifying these private lives and conversations; we may never know who, which bureaucrat, which judge, which prosecutor, which private life has been threatened with unlawful information. All of these reports, all of these kinds of records have been served to certain newspapers and websites, certain media at the same time, and we need to be very careful about that, and they were all talks aimed at opposition people and organizations in the government. Now, with all this going on, pretending it doesn't exist makes the report completely meaningless. When it comes to listening and watching, it's a literary masterpiece. George Orwell's novel (1984)...of course, the novel (1984) is very important in terms of identifying modern societies long ago and expressing them in a decent way, but the conditions that we are living in right now, the AKP Turkey, is beyond this novel, reality, literature. The story of that novel, which may be a summary of the novel, has become true, and under the name of democracy, a oppressive regime has been established, where all sorts of phone calls, e-mails, social media messages have been heard, monitored, read. So T is the short for the Republic of Turkey, which AKP people often try to remove. At this rate, it would be appropriate to have the C (e.g. C) be made as the Republika Srpska (Telephone). But this limitless, enormous tracking machine, however, is of no use to the killings that power is responsible for. In the slaughter of Ethem Sarısülük, MOBESE turned his eyes away; and in the killings of Ali Ismail Korkmaz, Berkin Elvan, Abdullah, these cameras were completely blinded. And these images were revealed by the efforts of a few honest journalists and lawyers. For some reason, none of these investigations have been used by the government, which the police claimed was for the safety of citizens, which the government claimed was for the safety of citizens. But what we're going through, especially this period, is a honeymoon period with the Fethullah Gulen community of power, which has far different dynamics than the desire to control society, which exists in the nature of power. This is the reality that the report ignores, covers it, sees it, doesn't really see it, but hides it, not the real source of the problem. Until 17 December 2013, the AKP, using its powers within the judiciary and security that acted as its unofficial coalition partner, used them to perform illegal wiretaps, serve them to the media, serve them as executioners of dignity. Colonel Ali Tatar and Colonel Berk Erden were two of our officers who committed honor suicide because of these illegal services, and I honor both of them here. It was logical to visit their relevant institutions in order to get the most accurate information about the process at a wiretap commission. As a matter of fact, the Commission listened to experts from the Security General Office, the General Command of the Gendarmes, the MIT, the Communication Presidency and the Information Technologies Foundation, and visited these areas, but these experts responded to none of the questions we asked, as if they had no idea. We've received information at a critical point or two. These, too, were unfortunately not addressed because of AKP members. All the experts -- I'm going to give a very concrete example -- the A1 and A25 devices, called the fake base station, and they introduced themselves to the system for all the phone traffic in that area, and they said, "We didn't hear it, we didn't even hear it." But somehow, after they became priests, these devices suddenly became known to everyone, and they were discovered that these devices were abducted, and many media were even subject to the headlines of the pool media. What more terrifying allegations have been raised in this frame. For him, if the government is looking for a parallel, parallel, parallel, truly parallel, it would be best if it looked at members of this committee, who ignore these realities, hide the facts, and the public officials who hide the facts in this commission, and the public officials who do not give the right information there. Gene became a boomerang to the ruling party, listening, listening, listening, listening, listening, and listening when the coalition partner broke up. When he learned that the time had come, he learned painfully that the time had come for listening. Amin Arslan told me some very interesting things on the commission, from former Deputy Chief of Police. Exactly -- I'm getting from his speech to the authorities -- he answered a question as follows: "We've secured high-tech devices that have been used in the past as fake cell towers. These devices are available to the police, the gendarmes and the MIT. Anyone who says no, they're lying. The experts who came all over the commission said they don't. Of course, we also need to send one to the Parliamentary Civil Code: I think that if we really want to make the House operational, we need to sanction public officials who hide information or give false information from parliamentary commissions, or even identify it as a crime. Emin Arslan continued his speech, and I have been the manager of these two apartments for many years, and I have contributed to their safety, good or bad. The equipment used in these units has been purchased from covered funds for the past two years and is not recorded in inventory. It's taken from a covered fund so that the forge doesn't register. We know that even some city mayors have been using these vehicles for years. He confessed. We also know that the mayor of this city was caught red-handed by a vehicle with these devices in front of the Supreme Court in Ankara, but none of this is in this report. One of the most competent names of the job, a police chief who spent years at the center of listening activities, confesses that the state has made illegal wiretaps through false cell towers in his statement to the Commission. He says he himself contributed to the purchase of these devices. He reports that the equipment used in the police for the past two years has not been recorded in the inventory, and he says they have been taken from the covered funds. Then we need to ask some questions. There are no answers or questions in this report. We need to ask: Can we call such a state a legal state? Can we call the parliament, which, despite all the evidence, is not necessary? Can we talk about how constitutional rights and freedoms are guaranteed in a country like this? Of course, all the answers to these questions are no. And when the ruling party is also the ruling party, the ruling party uses these illegal evidence, the opposite, in the name of democracy. There's another tragic situation, Sabri Long, who said the same thing. In particular, he made it clear that these realities he was trying to cover up, and both former police chiefs said that those who did so could be technically exposed in a very short time. We must surely ask the following questions and seek their answers: For what reason did the government commit illegal wiretaps? Why were secure listening devices unregistered, and why were covered funds used? After December 17th, was there an attempt on the equipment that was claimed to have been in the hands of what is called a parallel structure? If these wiretaps are supposedly in the hands of an illegal organization, why did the government condone it in advance, and why did the PM provide funding for them? These questions must be answered, but there will be no answer, because by December 17th, Ergenekon, Balyoz, KCK, Revolutionary Headquarters, Oda TV, used listening as a weapon in all cases as a weapon, both by listening and by listening to the social legitimacy of cases. After December 17th, after the start of the fight with the AKP (AKP) and the congregation began, headlines were made in the ruling media about listening over and over again, trying to create a perception, as the congregation did independent of the AKP. The ruling party, which had been broken down with the coalition's community in the past, began to form a state of intelligence, instead of choosing democracy and transparency, instead of choosing democracy and transparency, instead of the way the listening weapon he used to destroy his rivals. The laws that came to parliament's agenda after December 17 have nothing to do with a democratic Turkey, improving basic rights and freedoms, ensuring judicial independence. It's all set up in order to establish a party state. The court is not national. It is unlawful enough to describe its decisions. The AKP, which has built a regime that is not based on universal law, has ruled out any possible illegal activity of the MIT, particularly listening to the MIT Act, which it has made as a victim of listening to itself. He's almost completely deactivated the accounting mechanisms in front of the law. The MIT has now been transformed into an organisation controlled directly by the Prime Minister, not by national security, but by the Prime Minister's personal interests. It's likely that those who complain about hearings, who claim to be fighting parallel structures, will go to an intel installation that has been excluded from the control of constitutional mechanisms and will serve as an informal state-of-the-art internal war device. The listening commission, like other commissions, is one of the ways of the government to see friends shopping. As a matter of fact, none of the commissions, such as the coup commission, the Uludere Commission, the Resolving Commission, have achieved a satisfactory outcome, in order to create a full gas or image, to create perception. In fact, the AKP has made parliament an institution that can't actually function, which does not run the control mechanisms. Freedoms such as the privacy of private life or the immunity of freedom of communication cannot be mentioned in regimes, which have been disabled, but are still called "parlamentary democracy," which will not be possible to talk about democracy, law or fundamental rights and freedom of speech. So the problem is political, it's political. As your diagnosis is wrong, some of you are in the throes of guilt. Finally, I want to finish with a quote from the French philosopher Etienne de la Boetie, who lived in the 16th century, who said, "All this damage, all this evil, all this destruction, is not from your enemies." On the contrary, it is from the man whom you have glorified so much that you have not hesitated to go to war and throw yourself to death for his sake. Whoever controls you like this has two eyes, two hands, one body. Other than that, he has nothing more than any human being. And all that is in it is that which is in it, and you have not it; and all that is in it is that which you have given it, that you may crush it. If you didn't give it to him, where did he get all those eyes he was spying on you from? If he didn't take it from you, how come he's got so many hands beating you up? If the feet he's chewing on your cities aren't yours, where did he get them? How could he have power over you if he were not given to you? You raise your children to lead them to their best war, to the slaughters, to the servants of their passions and to the enforcers of their vengeance. You weaken yourself to make it stronger and stronger so that it tightens the reins even more. You don't have to try to get rid of it, you just have to want to get rid of it. The moment you decide not to worship, you're free. I'm not telling you to push him or break his balance, but don't just support him, so, then, you'll see him falling down with all his weight, like an Apollon statue pulled from under him. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0060par0034	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bartın MP Yilmaz Bronzeç. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0061par0038	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC Party Group regarding the Commission's Report on Parliamentary Research Commission, which aims to establish measures relating to the Freedom of Communication and the Protection of Private Life and the Containment of Violations. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. As a result of such a selfless work, such as four months, our Commission has submitted its report to General Kurula. Of course, during our commission work, we have established two subcommittee commissions, including the technical Commission and ▪The Subcommittee of Law, and we have carefully carried out our work, and we have compiled our recommendations to the Parliamentary General Assembly in the form of legal and technical proposals. Dear MPs, freedom of communication and privacy of private life are the most important human rights. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, in the European Convention on Human Rights, and in Articles 20 and 22 of our Constitution, this has been guaranteed the most basic human rights. The violation of people's rights, guaranteed by national above-national documents and by the Constitution, is no doubt unacceptable. In case of violations and violations of these rights, there must be sufficient sanctions. As an intervention in freedom of communication, in particular, illegal wiretaps and violations of privacy are not just the subject of the last 12 years. With the development of technology, problems may have increased in recent years, but problems with illegal listening and the privacy of private life are very old. According to the talks of former intelligence agents, journalists and scientists that we have heard in our commission, we have once again seen that illegal listening is especially used at extraordinary times and in the process of impacting people's private lives, that people are being hacked by illegal wiretaps, on this basis by the Research Commission. In recent years, we have also seen illegal listening and being made by illegal structures that have been donated within the state. Dear lawmakers, we must first state that important legislation on the protection of private life and monitoring of communication has been carried out since the years when the EC PARTY came to power. In 2004, when our new Penal Code came into force, the sanctions of interfering with these freedoms, which have been guaranteed in the Articles under the protection of personal data, and under the protection of personal data, took place in our legislation. Despite these criminal sanctions that have taken place in our position, there have been increased sentences on July 2, 2012, with the Law on Change in Some Laws, as well as in violations of privacy and violations of privacy, as well as heavy public complaints about their sanctions, as well as violations of privacy. Again, finally, the Law No. 6526, dated 21 February 2014, increased sentences for those who recorded personal data, published and did not destroy it. The audit of communication in our country was carried out by the Anti-Criminal Law until June 1, 2005, while our legislation on how to establish communication for the purposes of judicial and employment, and how to record activities was made in 2005. A control mechanism was established between Law 5397 and the operator, which provided the service of the communication tool for listening and listening to the Telecommunications Communication Presidency in 2005. Although all of these criminal sanctions have been brought in, even over time increased sentences related to these crimes, a control mechanism was created, while heavy complaints have been raised in society over illegal listening and violations of privacy, and thus has led to the establishment of our Commission. Dear lawmakers, mobile phones, Internet, radio, and television, have made life easier on one hand, while using these tools, the most secret areas are easily interfered with, or people can be deprived without knowing their communication, privacy, and freedoms. In addition, when the neglect of individuals or state institutions to protect private spaces is added, a picture presents a threat to basic rights and freedoms. The slightest weakness for communication and information security brings with it the highest level of security deficit. All of this has also revealed the need to prevent any preventive measures against freedom of communication and the privacy of private life, as well as the concrete attacks on these concepts, which are listed among the most fundamental rights and freedoms of our age, are sometimes the most severe punishment. The need for effective protection of society and state institutions against these attacks makes him feel a little bit more every day. The President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Deniz Baykal, Vice President of the National Movement Party and MP candidates and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who have been conducted by judicial institutions and have been closely followed by public investigations regarding the privacy violations of private life, has not been conducted by the Commission in accordance with Article 138. The successful conclusion of the ongoing investigations and the immediate enlightenment of these events and the detection of the responsible are expected by the public and all of us. In our country, listening and monitoring devices can be easily restored in the market; their production, sale, transport, possession appears to be not legally subject to any permits or licenses. In addition, the control of import regimes related to listening and monitoring devices in our country is very weak, and these devices mentioned because of the indifference and lack of control of production and import regimes are being introduced into our country under another name or in a completely illegal way. In our penal code, the privacy of private life and communication is a crime, not only with listening, monitoring and purpose-wise devices, but through all other technological devices, such as mobile phone, camera, computer, which are originally contained for other purposes, without distinction between the devices, and it requires punishment within the framework of the 132th and rest of the Turkish Penal Code. The idea of preventing listening and monitoring devices from using them for illegal purposes has shown that they can be completely banned or imported, that there are ideas that the freedom of these actions should be imposed, or that there should be criminal punishment or fines for these actions, but in some cases, it has been considered to be an appropriate mechanism to control mobile phones and similar devices, which are legally qualified to make audio recordings, with the intention and will of committing crimes and so that they can change into a serious threat to the privacy of communication freedom and privacy. It has already been known that acts committed in violation of individuals' private areas have already been committed in secret, with no conditions of complaint, lack of evidence or inadequacy, and the fact that the victim is unaware of the crime, for very different reasons, there are few who can be brought before the judicial institutions. Instead of developing only legal guarantees in this regard, additionally, the privacy and freedom of private life and communication. More comprehensive studies are required to accept their concepts as the most basic social value. The draft law on personal data that entered our Constitution through the 2010 referendum and was protected by the Penal Code in 2004 must be passed immediately. With the date of 21 February 2014 and Law 6526, it was a positive step towards increasing sentences for the protection of personal data. The trade in listening and monitoring devices is seen mainly on the Internet, as in other technological products. In this context, since we think that the adoption of a law that regulates electronic trade will also limit the sale of listening and monitoring devices, it is also useful that the Bill of the Law, which is on the agenda of the Assembly, immediately legalizes it. The agency must be relocated to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and amended with legal infrastructure and standards and have professional standards set in this regard. The production of monitoring and listening devices, importing, possession, transport, Transport, Maritime and Communications, Science, Industry and Technology and Trade Ministrys must implement measures and measures related to the registration model, as well as a control mechanism or other measures related to whether these devices are being used in accordance with the stated objectives. Mr. President, in violation of freedom of communication and privacy, our Commission's highest concern is the audit of the Commission's Penal Code, which is under the cover of the Secret Investigators and Technical Tools, and the audit of the communication between the 135th and 140th Articles. There were some very important flaws here that our Commission had detected as part of the legal arrangement. What were those? There was an arrangement in the legal regulations that led to unlimited listening in our Penal Code. Again, there was a problem with someone else's phone being tapped under another person's name. It was among the intense complaints that the organization had been subjected to a crime that did not involve catalog crime. Again, there were problems with the deniability of non-investigators. It's always been a matter of criticism that the decision to listen was made easily. In our report, it is a pleasure to see that almost all of these issues have been changed to our legal system, in accordance with Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law on February 21, 2014 and in accordance with Article 6526. After our report has been published, it is a pleasure to see that the report sheds light on legal regulations in parliament, inspired by the report, and arranged by the lawmaker. The amendment to Article 135 of the Penal Code was intended to prevent legal listening decisions easily from being taken and practices that would violate the privacy of private life with freedom of communication. According to the new regulation, communication can be detected, heard, recorded, and recorded through telecommunications by the republic's prosecutor's decision, in case there are strong reasons for doubt based on concrete evidence of a criminal investigation and prosecution, and there is no other evidence to be obtained, in case there is a serious trial or delay." In legal listening, the criteria for solid evidence have been provided. Again, the most important thing our Commission has determined is that people's phones are being tapped under other names. That's solved by Law 6526. Here is the obligation to include a document or report that will show the owner of the line or the communication tool to be decided on again when making a request for listening; thus preventing abuses in the application is intended. Again, the most important problem that our commission has detected is the unrestricted wiretap decisions. This problem was also eliminated by Law 6526. The precautionary decision will be made for three months at most and will be extended once more and will be extended for up to six months -- a change in our former legislation -- can now be made for two months, and will be extended for another month. Six months of listening in the past have been reduced to three months with a new arrangement. Again, organised crimes with unlimited listening decisions could result in three months' wiretaps at the most, and will not exceed six months in organised crime along with the additional three months. Our commission has also made a recommendation on reevaluation of catalogue crimes and prevention of pleasure in monitoring communications. In this sense, Law 6526 also solved this problem. This crime, the crime of the organization, the catalog crime, was removed from the crime of the organization, while listening to non-criminals has been avoided by the organization. The easy way for listening and monitoring decisions to be made is something our commission has always criticised with its power, its opposition. We've always been told that these decisions can't be made easily, that all of our MPs, our friends who are members of our commission, have stated that our legislation should be corrected in this direction. Law number 6526, again, has solved this issue. From now on, a secret investigator tasked with listening and recording of communication and monitoring with technical tools will be unanimous by the criminal court. This change has taken place in our legal system as an important arrangement in accordance with the recommendations of our commission. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our research commission makes important recommendations under two topics, including law and technique. An important part of the changes needed to be made in our arrangement has been made, but there are other arrangements to be made. Because of the development of technology, the spread of computers and smartphones, the spread of listening and monitoring devices, the proposals for taking legal and administrative measures are also in our report. It is possible that they will be brought to life by legal legislation, by administrative means, by administrative measures. Hopefully, in the future, our commission report will shed some light on these applications. We're all sensitive to illegal wiretaps. However, despite the fact that in recent months, we have even established a research commission on this matter with the proposals of all political parties who have been so sensitive to illegal listening, we also regret that some politicians are not sensitive to this issue. The introduction of illegal wiretap records and audio recordings alleged to be edited from the parliamentary bench is in fact contrary to our common will to set up a commission on this issue in parliament. Our commission report will serve as a key resource in preventing violations against freedom of communication and privacy and taking necessary measures on this matter. In the hope that our proposals will come to life, I thank all of our MPs who have participated in the commission's work, our experts who work for the commission, everyone who's done their work, and wish the report well, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0062par0069	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Democratic Party of Rights Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0063par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Secret listening in Turkey, violation of freedom of communication, violation of personal rights, violation of privacy, human rights violations are routine, daily, routine. It is also routine, daily, that the President, the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff, the Supreme Judiciaries, the judges, should be heard. Because we live in a Turkish Republic of Turkey, where we can listen to anyone from the Special War Office to the General Staff, from the General Staff to the NATO hierarchy, from NATO security, from NATO to our police, from there to our police departments, from there to private security companies, from there to there to people, from there to the Mafia, from there to everyone, and from there to the Mafia to listen to them, there is no freedom to listen to them. There's no other country where there's so much open listening. I looked at it this way, and I mean, AK PARTY always had a comparison in mind of pre-2002 and after 2002. What was being done before 2002? The head of the Intelligence Agency was testifying on June 3, 1999 about the wiretapping scandal at the police headquarters of the period. Süleyman Demirel, interview date 21 August 1998. The date of the interrogation through the home phone of Bulent Ecevit... is from the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, Supreme Court, Foreign Affairs, Tuğrul Türkesh, to the DYP headquarters, to the MGK General Secretary-Generalship, to the DYP, to the CHP, to the MGK General Secretary-General's office. This is the wiretaps from before 2002, before your time. During your time, the technique improved, the listening devices developed. Now, a little button, a pencil, a key chain, everything has become a listening device, a recording device, an image capture point. Now, when we look at all of these developments, from the terrible gaps of Turkey's security and intelligence weakness in a strategic position in the Middle East, agents circle around, nesting in every area, inside the Turkish Armed Forces, inside the ICE, inside the Security, in the Foreign Office, working like a staff. I mean, it's so comfortable that they're doing it with instant images, e-mails, instant Internet access. Some of them are specially trained; some of them are in arms-selling traffic, some of them in energy and security-related investments, some of them in some countries trying to create confusion, provocation, political instability. They're all listening to the media, watching the media, and the media is listening, watching, reporting from these channels; they get the news, and then the news is delivered to the press the next day. Now, look, cyber security aside, we're talking about a system that's not even manual security. Because the wiretapping, the blackmail, the tape... for God's sake, can someone show me that the government has come out and arrested someone who's been listening to a secret phone or something, and we've done this procedure on him, and he's been punished? There's been a capture of the Prime Minister's bugs, five of them. This capture... we don't know what the court will say. Now, I'm asking you... in this country, I'm resting, everyone's watching, everyone's worried. Everyone in my house, I have recording devices, electrical chips, chandeliers, pencils, pencils, cup holders, all of them... these accessories are in every area of life, and they're in every area of life, and they're coming up with wiretaps, covert surveillance, secret evidence, secret investigation, secret intelligence, secret order. No state secrets, no confidentiality records... no MİTti, no special authority prosecutor, special authority court, everyone in this country has been declared enemies, everyone has been held in private authorities, prisons for a long time, friends. Our mayors, our deputies, our political party representatives are still inside. Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, don't let anyone think this wheel is fixed just because the fraud case has returned from the Supreme Court. This wheel works exactly because it's protected, the people who do it, the people who do it, they're known and protected. So it was, at last, that the government returned. Call them parallel, call them deep, or call them gangbangers with official powers, and on December 17th, they're on the side of the government, their ministers, their children, the Prime Minister's children's wiretaps, and they're up to the point where they'll serve them to the press with their photographs, with their technical surveillance. So, any of the people who did this to the Prime Minister, to the ministers, to the ministers, to the ministers who held them accountable, to the people who made him resign, were they arrested? A number of prosecutors changed positions, a number of police chiefs changed positions, and they were called parallel. The Prime Minister came out, created an enemy. In Turkey, it's customary to create enemies. It's either the extremities, or the separatism, or he says, "I don't know," or he says, "I don't know, he creates an enemy, and then he starts to create a parallel enemy." If there's anyone in law enforcement who's broken the law, they'll hold his papers, the prosecutors will put them before the court. That's what governments do. If there are 2 million armed forces at the disposal of a government, 550,000, 80 thousand guards, 630,000 law enforcement, armed law enforcement, police, gendarmes, rangers, coast guard, and 600K army, if you have a TİB President at your disposal, if you have a CEC at your disposal, then who does it, and who does it, one by one? I'm telling you, this is one of the research proposals I gave the day I first arrived as a member of the Research Commission. I made it clear to my friends in the commission that 80 percent of those who listen, record, violate the law, and work for others are civil servants. All of this came true one by one. All the presidents and crews have been replaced in the head of the Police Intelligence Agency, my friends. Again, you know the building of TİB (TİB), where cables were transferred from the building of TİB (TİB), where other centers controlled, listened, stored, deleted, and reported to the press and public, which the prime minister explained. Now, if the public official under your command is doing this listening, keeping a record, spreading it, what do you have to do? It's a legal arrangement, Parliament. This is a pleasure, not a complaint, folks. What did we do? We're here, we've offered this House 20 articles of law, my friends. These 20 articles are about information, about the Internet, about wiretaps, about those who spread it, about those who commit crimes; we have offered to arrange their punishment as deterrents. It's been accepted. The government is a prepared study, and this is what's happening. He said, and he agreed, but it wasn't enough. We said something, when we didn't solve this radically, if the market is selling like bread and cheese -- from listening to all kinds of bugs -- if we can't control it, if the GSM companies can easily control it and listen to foreign forces, if they can listen to it, you can listen to it in Turkey, if they can be privatized via the Internet, TTNET, TEEKOM, in this area where you're filming strangers. We said, "They will listen to you, and follow you, and bring you to the linenwork, and disgrace you, and do to you all things." Then the law has to work in this country. Someone's got to understand, it's a moral failure to go into people's privacy, tape them, use them as political blackmail, friends, it's a shameful act, it's a dirty thing, it's a bad thing. You're not going anywhere until you convict this. Now, there's no law on devices in our country where this wiretap spreads so far into every area, and there's no law on listening and there's no law on listening, my friends. Here are the suggestions I gave you in this report. I want every congressman in this report to take a good look at these suggestions. I've asked you to stop the administrative listening, to supervise, to stop the administrative listening, not just the inspector, not the administration, but the Parliament should do these listenings as they do in developed countries. Parliament was working on the Civil Code amendment at the time, and there was an example of that in the countries we went to. Just as we've established a commission for the audit of the Intel... I asked about that, and the AK PARTY still hasn't signed up for that commission.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0064par0085	It's done, it's done.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0063par0086	Did you give it to him today? Oh, thank God you thought of that. So this MIT Commission came as your proposal. Look, guys, we're giving this government a lot of free advice. He doesn't know how to use any of the ideas we give him, any of the free mind. We said, let's do a parliamentary audit in the Civil Charter, set up a commission -- we saw it in London, we saw it in Washington, we saw it in Paris -- in the Interior Charter, let's have a commission overseeing these secret wiretaps from every party group in Parliament. I mean, this has come into everyone's life, it's dangerous, let's make the law of it. How do we do this? This preventer, in matters of employment, has special laws -- the security of the state, the secrecy of the state, under the record of what's-what's-what's-not -- but let the police, the gendarmes, the TK, the wiretaps, the judicial hearings, the judicial decisions are in accordance with the law, aren't they, let this House be audited, and let it be processed in order to be done about those who don't comply with it? Why did we build the Human Rights Foundation in this House? Why did we start an ombudsman organization? Didn't we build it to protect the victim of the administration's procedures? Now, these preventive listenings are 70 percent of hidden wiretaps, my friends. I mean, even the extended sergeant can listen to you wherever he wants, down to the guard level, down to the police guard level, up to the extended sergeant level, down to the wiretap level. Now you appreciate the recklessness of this. Imagine that this has no control, and they're listening to their superiors. I mean, sometimes people don't get along. In these wiretaps, again, we've told you, the court is not investigating. What do you mean, criminal? If there is, you listen to serious evidence, you don't spread the records of the people you're listening to. You listen, there's doubt, there's consequences, but we have courts in the capital where they've decided to listen for three months in eight counties. Is this Patagonia? In any dictatorship, anywhere in the world, such a decision cannot be made. Media members listened under code names. The court judges -- I wouldn't believe it if I didn't see it with my own eyes -- decided to tap under his own phone, why? Sir, fighting organised crime, fighting terrorism... Can E argue with that? Phones are lined up on the top. Mashallah, they're writing 100 phones in a package, 200 phones. Why are you listening? They are dangerous. My brother, so dangerous that you have been surrounded for three years since the Syrian war. El Nusra is entering, ISIS is entering, Al Qaeda is entering. In this country, how did you see, inspect, and watch? Can you tell us about a parliament that monitors this? You can't, folks, because you don't have to watch, you don't have to supervise. Every now and then, in VIP halls, take a look around, and you'll see these elements. Now, friends, there are some very serious issues in our proposals. Nowhere in the world do lawmakers listen, but Turkey rests. The minister comes out and says, "I've heard it." He'll be fine.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0065par0090	It's good to be number one in the world.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0063par0091	So I committed a crime. He says the prosecutor won't act. The second we say two words here, the prosecutors are all working overtime for us. We don't know what it's all about. Look, lawyers, defenders, they have a duty to keep secrets, it's essential that they're bugged in countries, but only if they're on office phones, cell phones, home phones, they're all tapped. There are some professions that require trade secrets. The doctor's got a trade secret, you got a CPA, you got a lawyer. These should rest after a certain check-up. None of this is in our law, so we thought we'd bring it in. I've told commissioner AK PARTY lawyers. Mr. Başer is here, he's a victim of wiretaps, he served as a court of law on the legal commission. Brother, isn't the tailor going to sew it up first? So I'm asking you now: we've offered you so much free advice as to do this in opposition. We said, "Do this," and you didn't." You didn't, you're stuck in December 17. We told you to do it. You didn't do it, you got caught in December 25. We told you to do it. You didn't do it, there are bugs around the Prime Minister. It's nothing, we've got live bugs now, alive. By God, these electrics, other than these outlets, they're crawling with live bugs, their tops are beeping, they're beeping, some of them are like cicadas.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0066par0093	It's a cockroach.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0063par0094	I mean, they're also talking about his pre-historic sanctity in the history of Egypt. I don't know if anyone knows it, but power knows it better than we do. Now, we've agreed on four parties to set up such an audit commission in the Civil Code Compromise Commission, but we can't set it up. Well, it's a legal arrangement for protecting information, preventing pleasure, monitoring communication. How many legal arrangements have been brought here? No. In relations with the MIT, the MIT Commission has been established, turned into a mentoring commission, and our Parliamentary MIT Commission will not have a mentoring commission, an audit commission. In the process of peace and resolution, friends, this listening thing is very, very important. If you don't want to be provoked in the process of peace and solutions, if you want to be able to control someone in these solution processes by controlling, listening to, preventing certain provocations from being set up in front of each other, you're going to control this area, you're going to know what agents are in this area, and the government needs to know first and take precautions. We as all parties are ready for this, we've written the report, we've given our opinion, we've made our proposal, and the rest is what the government should do. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit04spe0067par0099	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0067par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the general talks on Parliamentary Research Commission Report 489 rows. The commission and the government are in place. It's the Commission's turn now. Commissioner Yozgat MP Yusuf Başer will speak. Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] (10/74, 471, 471, 473, 474, 475) I have made a commitment on behalf of the Commission on the Council's Research Commission Report, Mr. President, on the purpose of establishing measures relating to freedom of communication and the Protection of Private Life. I hereby salute your high council. The right to freedom of communication, privacy and protection of private life is one of the basic human rights rights of our Constitution, 20, 21, 22 (in the European Convention on Human Rights, in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and in the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights. The freedom of communication and the secrecy of private life from basic rights and apologies may be subject to the 13th and 22nd Articles of our Constitution and the 8th Article of the European Convention on Human Rights, preventing national security, public order, crime, protection of general health and general morality, or a number of reasons for protecting the rights and freedoms of others, and only by the need of law and democratic society, provided it is obeyed by the principles of measure. The six motions on the opening of parliamentary investigation to the chairman of the Grand Assembly of Turkey in order to determine legal, administrative and other measures for the resolution of the issue of freedom of communication and the privacy of private life have been established by combining the general council's meeting on January 22, 2013, to determine the violations of communication freedom and the privacy of private life and to determine measures to prevent. Our commission began its work on February 12, 2013, performed its work for four months, and submitted its report to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 12 June 2013. During four months of work, our commission set up a legal and technical subcommittee, 13 commissions, 8 law subcommittee meetings, 4 technical subcommittee meetings, and 25 meetings in total. Ten work visits have been made to be conducted as a commission. During the four-month term, our commission received the opinion of all its associates, including the Justice Ministry, the Security Directorate, the General Command of the Police, the National Intelligence Agency, Telecommunications Communication Presidency, the Association of Turkey's Bar Association, the Gazi and Bilkent University, and the TÜBİBİBİTAK institutions. He listened to the presentations of companies such as Turkish Telekom, Avea, Turkcell, Vodafone, and conducted research and research at the centers of these institutions and companies. Information from the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Customs and Trade on implementation and measures related to importing of devices used in illegal wiretaps, which are commonly referred to as "bugukek", has been obtained from the Ministry of Economy. In the course of conducted studies, it has been determined at times how and what criminal activities, such as how and how to use the media environments, how to identify communication content among people, how to provide vehicles, how to receive them, how to register them, how to enter secret areas of life, or how to register private life, which is impossible to be seen by others in any other way, and what legal, administrative, and other measures may be required to be taken in order to solve problems. Our commission has worked with the awareness that violations to freedom of communication and privacy are a very important problem. The freedom of communication and the privacy of private life are the most basic personal rights, and it has been specifically highlighted in every step of our work, in which violations against these rights should be strictly avoided. Are we being listened to by the commission's work? It has been concluded that its concerns are due to some shortcomings in our legislation as well as problems in the implementation. It has to be known that the main way to become a state of law is to secure basic rights and freedoms. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, concrete proposals laid out under two separate headings -- no legal and technical proposals as a result of commission work. As a legal commission, we've offered 28 proposals and 24 proposals, technically. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, one of the fellow speakers just agreed that this Commission Report would have to be thrown out. I would also like to read a line or two from the opinion of opposition lawmakers and lawmakers who spoke on the report on page 273 of our Commission Report. There are 28 legal regulation proposals in the mission report. Most of these are proposed by the establishment of our commission, and are also known in other countries of the world. If all of these regulations are done with an understanding that develops freedoms and guarantees the rights, otherwise we're there. He says, "We're here." And I offer the issue to the views and appreciation of our beloved nation and its respected MPs. Yes, some of our proposals were spoken by my dear congressman friends who spoke ahead of me, and I'd like to give my opinion on what they didn't say on the condition that we don't run away again. There is a need for legal regulations to be made and followed by special authorities to be subjected to all decisions concerning criminal procedure law between Articles 134 and 140. When the level of anxiety and fear of the current level of illegal listening is corrected in public opinion, it is necessary to establish special judges between the 134 and 140th substances of the CMK, including search, seizure, telecommunications, implementation of decisions, the destruction of the content of communication, the accidental evidence of evidence, secret investigators and technical instruments, who will perform the work of experts, private and contractors. ▪ It is necessary for the staff of the courts to be chosen carefully and expert in this matter and to be carried out by judges who are experts in all criminal procedures, while the special procedure for their control must now be seen as a necessity. According to CMK Article 135, the decision must be made to assess the information of the signal of those missing, suspected of dying, or who were considered deprived of their freedom as a result of the crime. Again, administrative and legal measures should be taken regarding the limitation of information that may violate the privacy of private life in criminal investigations and prosecution cases. The CMK Article 138 shall be obliged to report the case immediately to the state's attorney's office when the evidence is obtained by accident, and to have the evidence taken into protective custody by the republic's attorney himself. During the trial, the parties must be removed from the file, except for evidence that the prosecutor has based on evidence, so that they can learn the private information of the parties as well as the evidence. In our country, the person who actually uses the phone in the application and the person who has the line in it is different and the person who has the phone in it has to be taken care of by the person and the person who is actually listening to the person and the person who owns the line in all the transactions regarding the control of the communication. Internet communication is becoming increasingly common in our time and new forms of communication are emerging every day. The person who enters the Internet leaves behind very rich and detailed information about his personality. Further arrangements for the monitoring of Internet communication must be made, for setting boundaries on the basic and procedures of control, and for the protection of privacy. There is no mention of the reading of communication, listening and recording in Article 135 of CMK. Communication made by SMS or e-mail can be read, read, or watched without saving. Therefore, access to communication, reading, monitoring, or any way available should also be regulated under the scope of telecommunications communication. A detailed regulation should be made regarding the destruction of the records of the information found in the 137th article of the CMC. In our case, regulations should be made regarding the basic and procedures of sharing the listening measure of other investigative and prosecution bodies, the evidence the investigative and prosecution bodies have obtained under the implementation of the listening measure. Mr. President, I'd like to share with you again one of the most important items in our report, perhaps a solution proposal. We believe that either delays and explanation of the decree -- which is an option -- can be increased in terms of the penalties committed against the privacy of the Turkish Penal Code and the hidden area of life -- should not be allowed to be reversed or to be imposed as a constraint to cash -- or additional measures should be taken in this regard. In particular, we think it would be more effective for those involved in the investigation and prosecution to carry out this crime in implementing the control of communication measures and for deterrence of verbs. We believe that it is periodically necessary to train the officers who have made demands, made decisions and carried out decisions and played a role in the entire sequence of phases to control communication through telecommunications. The creation of representatives and liaison offices in Turkey must be ensured by the content and location providers abroad. In the event of the release of communication content, which has been disclosed by Law 6532, the perpetrators have been allowed to be punished according to Articles TCK 132, 133, 1334. However, this arrangement cannot deter international sites from committing such crimes. It takes a long time to go on the path of punishment, and in some cases, these verbs are not punished for not being guilty abroad. However, it is not technically possible to block access to the content of such publications that contain only the element of crime. Obstruction of domestic access to the entire website by the TİB is exaggerated in public. In order to prevent this, there is a need for cooperation on issues such as social networking sites, such as,,,,,,,,, youtube, and international initiatives to create and to provide the IP address because of its activities in Turkey, for which there are no servers. As a result, the establishment of executive representations in our country will enable the removal of unlawful content in a short time, while also contribute economically to our country by preventing tax losses. There are monitoring centres in the fight against crime that will effectively reduce motivation for crime. In particular, there must be legal infrastructure for cameras found in housing and workplaces and malls, such as the City Security Management System and MOBESE. Due to the fact that we are in 10 countries in the world under threat of cyber security, especially the preparation of the cyber-security action plan must be made by a single data centre of state-owned data, as well as the completion of legal regulations related to cyber-security. In order to prevent many attacks on critical infrastructure, we think it can be repaired by developing, loading, and regularly updated a national antivirus program. A multinational antivirus and firewall software approved in international circles must be realized. The national telecommunications sector must be established and the external dependency should be reduced by providing incentives to national infrastructure for telecommunications companies. We believe that the implementation of these proposals is vital at the point of preventing violations of the freedom of communication and privacy of our country. I'd like to thank our experts and those who have been involved in the formation of our commission and preparing our report, especially our members of the Commission. As a commission, he says we are pleased to see some of our proposals being implemented by our AKPARTI government, and when all of our proposals are carried out, he believes that our country's legal state phenomenon and further democracy will be stronger, and I wish our Commission report to be better, and I salute you all with respect. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Basher. Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Fikri Il. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the government's Commission for Assembly Research, which aims to determine measures related to the freedom of communication and the secrecy of private life and the violations of communication in 489 rows. I hereby salute the High Council. First, at the beginning of my speech, I thank all my fellow commissioners, including our Commissioner Yozgat MP Yusuf Başer, who has been involved in the drafting of this report, to all of our fellow commissioners, to all of our experts who have been working on the commission's preparation, to all the NGOs and individuals and party groups who have contributed to our Commission's work process. At the beginning of my remarks, I say, especially the Commission report is being taken into consideration by our government and will then be considered with great care. I'm going to say once again that all the suggestions that have been made here are being handled and handled one by one. My dear friends, the balance of freedom-security in all democracies is a very controversial balance. In many lands, the debate has been held for many years, whether freedom should weigh heavily or security should weigh heavily. For our country in particular, in the second half of the 19th century and in the early 20th century, in our very large land loss, the state's stay has become the country's top priority, and the state's survival, the state's continuation, has been seen as the top priority. And given the freedom debates at the time, we know of a structure that was much heavier in security in the balance of security-freedom during our single party period. But then we also know that, with Turkey's transition into democracy, multiparty life, civil authorities have the courage to take many steps in favor of freedom, and they've done a lot of important work on it. However, we also experienced periods of military, revolutions and post-conflict and military custody, especially when freedom was put aside, and there was a time when security was much more prerequisite, personal freedoms could be restricted for security, and individual rights could be restricted. This government here, or this government, I don't ever want to go into this breakup. However, while setting up the AK PARTY, the EC PARTY put two main goals ahead of it. One is free Turkey, the other is rich Turkey. It's actually the most summation of the Justice and Development Party. And from the day he came to power along with the November 3rd 2002 elections, he worked day and night to make Turkey a freer and more prosperous country on the other hand. To be honest, I'm very pleased to express it. In particular, I would like to remind you that in the field of freedoms, our Turkish Parliament of the great nation, with the will of our government, has a significant function at this point in the law enforcement of many freedom zones in our Parliament. Perhaps the two most beautiful examples of this, dear friends, are that after the 1999 elections, the picture of our friend with a headscarved MP entering parliament and the difference in the picture of our friend with several headscarfs in October of last year when he entered the Assembly, is actually very well expressed by the maturity of our democracy and the point of freedoms in Turkey. We should be proud of it, we should all be proud of it.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0068par0053	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0069par0054	We're untraceable, out of places to go. And the success of that is not just the AK PARTY thing. We'd like to thank all the members of our parliament for that. Or 12 years ago, if it was said that Kurdish will be broadcast in Turkey, no one would believe it, but today in Turkey, Kurdish can be broadcast from the state channel, and now it has been widely adopted by all parts of our society. My dear friends, the fight we've been given so far is a real precautionary struggle. Our heads are in the sky!
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0070par0059	Mr. Secretary, even the bagel makers say we're resting. Yes. Well, let's say that now, unfortunately, with this sense of custody in Turkey, unfortunately with the understanding that there are mechanisms in Turkey that should be controlled by politics and the public, there has been some work done from the beginning. But as an AK PARTY...
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0071par0062	It started with you, Minister. Excuse me a minute, folks, excuse me. Look, I've listened very carefully, very patiently, and I'm going to finish a few sentences, especially considering the demands of our friends at the wedding point as much as possible. Now, my dear friends, I'm afraid in Turkey, that's where we have to change the culture in the first place. We have to build together a Turkey where no one interferes in the space of freedom, no one listens to anyone for a legitimate, legal, legal reason. Here today, all the talks in the House have been made, we don't agree, we find some of them very unfair, but today's Parliament has revealed this: AK PARTI, CHP, MHP, HDP; yes, friend, no one should listen to anyone else without law, but we should set up the mechanisms for this together. The High Council must take steps together at this point. The bill on the protection of personal data is now on the agenda of the House. Hopefully, we'll take it out together, and then we'll consider the privacy of private life, the protection of personal data, any violation of the rule of law, and at this point, we'll make Turkey's members feel much freer, much happier, and much happier. I thank all of my fellow lawmakers, our Commission, our party groups, who have contributed with these feelings and thoughts today, and I salute you all with the warmest love and respect.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0072par0069	Thank you, Mr. Light. Izmir MP Erdal Aksunger. Here you go, Mr. Aksinger.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0073par0073	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. What the Minister said is that we've already written in this book as the opposition when this Commission was established, and I've written it, and our friends have written some things. In theory, they were good, but you missed them all that day because you weren't interested in this because there was no such operation on December 17th and December 25th. Why wasn't there a signal? Look, I'm saying what I said today, and we said the same thing that day, in all the institutions that we went to as the Commission, there were developments that would really offend us very, very much: When we went to MIT, they looked at us and showed us strange men and made us sleep. In the way of this commission, there was no work coming from this commission. They were trying to mail us in the way they were trying to get rid of us. Yeah, well, our friend's with you, and I know what's going on, and we've all worked together. Moreover, they said, "They are listening to the nation, including your Adana MP, including Mr. Başer.'" Yeah, you didn't process them. Leave them alone, you didn't do it. What kind of detailed work did we do in MIT, Security Intelligence, TİB, BTK? We couldn't do it, there's no such thing. But you didn't have to, why didn't you? The story of the village was already clear, and its guide was clear who it was. Yeah, the guys who were head of the Police Intelligence Bureau in this country, deputy chief of police, told us where we got the equipment from. And the mayor of a city also used it. The head of an important organization in this country said so. Who took the fort, which one of them took the fort? The men who were in charge of the work told me which logbooks were deleted. What Hanefi Hunter said, what Amin Arslan said, what Sabri Long said. Well, these were the officers of that time. So, these were investigated, and all those who did them were brought before the judges in court? It hasn't been removed. In this country, when you look at the legislation, the lawyers know exactly how to do it, but in this country, we've seen how the law is broken, how it's been broken, how it's been broken, where we've seen it all. That's where we saw people listening under aliases and code names and bringing law enforcement to the prosecutor and bringing anonymous men to the judge, men whose phone numbers don't belong to anyone, to the judge, and they're all about terrorism. And those judges gave them permission to listen. That's where we saw 75 million people in this country get their HTS records. We've seen it all there, and we've had a thorough study of who's being done? It wasn't done. Who's the mastermind? Has this been uncovered? It hasn't been removed. You're right, okay, it's about these things. Look, I'll give you a very rude example of what I'm talking about, our friends were there, and I told you about the actions of the U.S. National Guard in this country that day. Six months after that, an incident took place in the world, but when they were looking at me on that day, they were saying, "Friends, I'm telling the AKP MP friends, look at what he's talking about here." Six months later, when an American agent came out of Russia, and Snowden had an explanation there, what happened? They said they were listening to us. In this country, as my friend mentioned earlier, if everyone from the bagel maker had such a phobia, they listen to me. When they call me, Mr. Deputy, let's talk face-to-face. I say, what's the matter? What's the matter, they're listening to us, what's the matter? Why would they listen to a bagel shop, brother? That's what this country's people are all about. And today, don't worry, the same thing is going on right now, the same fear continues. Who did you put up with? You didn't let anyone out. There's no such thing. Then, something very interesting happened in this country. Now, there's a lot of details, so I can talk here for five hours, I've done a lot of research on these issues, really, but I'm going to tell you something that happened last time. As of December 2013, this, in particular, was an operation in TİB. As a result of those operations, you wiped out all those who were against you, you got five people out of there, you brought the people of the national intelligence agency to the TİB -- good, you put close men -- you put men in charge of the law office who had nothing to do with law. You took the servers out of there, and you took them away, and there was no telling what had been done. They're all the ones with incredible privacy, the ones with data. You took them away, as if their image was not enough, and they took away the men from their place. Why are you taking it out? Why are you taking it out? There's another plan behind this, that's what I think. Let's just say that all of this happened... anyway, we're past all of this. When we arrived in June, you performed an operation on the TİB in June 2. Who were these men, the men you brought? Why are you operating? You've already brought these men. I'll tell you why. There were other records, there was a possibility that someone had taken these records, that all of these servers were regrouped, although their images were taken away, and they were taken away, and brought back again. Why was he brought in? Did you put anything in it? So, who deleted whose records? I wonder if the Prime Minister had other talks and they took him. So, what did you bring in there? You've performed an operation that is not subject to authority or responsibility, which, in fact, is not subject to the authority of the bravers here, that you can not give him responsibility when you are in charge of them. Yeah, those guys you brought in were your guys. Well, the echoes of this operation in June are still there today. Isn't he subject to research? It's subject to research, of course. Is that a thing? Of course, we've written so many solstices here that there are a few. I already told you about this thing, about the missing vehicles. I'll tell you something, did you know that since 2010, none of these missing vehicles have been registered in the Office of Security Intelligence? Our friends were there, they told us. They've already told us there's no record of any kind of equipment in police intelligence. What the hell does that even mean? What do you mean, something like that?
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0074par0079	They gave it to the city hall.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0073par0080	Of course. Is that a thing? Also, when there were all kinds of documents about which vehicles were taken from Canada, Canada, America, Germany, which city, which company, all the code numbers, all the way to the import records, were they investigated? It wasn't investigated. Well, you did, and then you had to do it, and that was the first thing in the country. Also, I'll tell you something more terrible: not only has there been listening through political design in this country, but all of it has been confessed, all of it, the friends on that commission have heard, they said: "The information about the bond is being transferred to someone with listening." Who said that? The head of the Police Intelligence Agency told me. He said, "It's being altered." Besides, those data aren't being transferred just through the manipulation of the stock market. What else is being done? He also told me that the details of the tenders have been transferred. Now, it's a little rude to talk about freedom in this country, honesty in this country, integrity, clean politics when such big, horrible stories are out there. Well, then, these things need to be cleared up. One by one, name by name, the man said: who deleted the logos from the Hrant Dink murder, gave me a name. Has it been processed? No, it hasn't been done, and it won't be done, and it won't be done. In this country, these were stories that actually stood at the bottom of the deep story, but you sent them deeper and buried them somewhere else, trying to bury them. I was describing operations in the MIT, then, when I said, I said that those times remember that you had delivered police intelligence to the congregation, and you were trying to turn MIT into your own company. Do you think of yourself as people with the possibility of using the institutions of the state so brutally? What happened?
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0075par0084	The Valley of Wolves.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0073par0085	It's the other way around. Do you know what you've done to MIT? The MIT has become an institution that operates when technical intelligence is an institution. So you tried to turn it into a subsidiary of the Turkish Armed Forces. He wasn't operating abroad. He was doing all the operations in the country. They bought it with three bowls, they transferred it abroad, he says. I think you should go and see where those three bowls stand. Yeah, well, I'm not in there, so go check it out. Where's it standing? Have those bowls ever been set? For one thing, when those dishes are set up, the men who claim to know that two bowls need to see each other. Let them see where the other dish is built. Those were six empty claims. In this country, it's been brutally broken, and I think a lot of people are being tagged right now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The political designs are from here, and their funding is from here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0076par0090	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. Izmir MP Hamza Mountain. Here you go, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0077par0094	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a personal commitment to the research commission on illegal wiretaps. I salute you all with love, respect, conversation. Recently, we have been listening to both the political and the leading members of the community, and the concern has forced the establishment of this Commission. For this reason, the Parliamentary Research Commission was established on 12 February 2013 with the joint motion of four parties on illegal wiretaps that were frequently on the agenda. Our commission worked for four months and submitted its report to our Parliamentary President in June 2013. In what we call the age of communication, technology is developing at a stunning rate, and every day new communication organs enter our lives. This facilitates communication, but also restricts our freedom of communication, making the means of communication unsafe. In the past, there are numerous methods available today, while only parallel receptions or listening on plants are available, and a new one is added to them every day. The legal regulations of our rule have made significant progress at the point of freedom of communication and the secrecy of private life. By our commission, both the legal legislation and the application area have been examined, the relevant institutions have been heard and visited. A number of suggestions have been provided at the point of completion of the shortcomings stemming from legislation and practice. At the point of our work, freedom of communication and the privacy of private life, some of these proposals have been enforced and implemented over time. However, it is evident that the world, as in our country, is inadequate in both legislation and practice in this area as it is in the face of the rapid development of technology. Most of the work our commission has done is technical. I'm not going to be able to get into these issues because my speech time isn't available, but I'd like to go over a few things with the legal and social dimension of the issue. The freedom of communication in the 22nd article of our Constitution cannot be allowed to be obstructed or violated in any illegal way. The most important progress to be made in this regard is from the point of view of illegal listening and the violation of private life. The fact that the media and politics don't give them bonuses is the basis for this issue's solution. Illegal wiretaps, making personal privacy political material, will not bring anything to anyone politically, but will discredit the political institution in the long term. Those who try to adjust politics with illegal listening should be opposed by us politicians before anyone else. Based on this, we have to make it very clear that as well as the people who are spreading these wiretaps and who are doing politics and judging people through them, they are clearly in the wrong. We have to sit down and think about what's been happening in Turkey in recent years, and we have to do our work in this way, in the same way, all of our responsible minds, including politicians in the first place. Our commission has not only studied illegal wiretaps, but has also worked on many techniques such as the protection of personal data, the detective agency, the working system of telephone operators, cyber threats, MOBESE and security cameras, the credibility of electronic trade. And I would like to stress this in particular: no matter what measures are taken, no matter how much legal arrangement is being made, it's becoming more and more impossible for this situation to be prevented by developing technology every day. The main thing here is to increase criminal sanctions and prevent the publication and use of any illegal data. It's not clear that data like this can be prevented as long as the value of data is. It is an important step in which a person who enters our third judicial package and violates the privacy of communication among people is sentenced to one year in prison from one year to three years in prison, and in the case of this violation of confidentiality as a record of communication content, the punishment will be increased onefold, and the same punishment will be carried out through the press. And by the way, I want to make it very clear that no communication tool has an infinite and infinite space of freedom. The rules of law that apply to written and visual media also apply to social media. Law enforcement applies to everyone. To approach this issue through momentary political debates may benefit in the short term, but in the long run, there is also the possibility of causing serious problems in society that cannot be made up for. In addition, important arrangements have been made at the point of both the fourth and fifth judicial packets, both at the point of listening decisions and at the point of confiscation of private data, preventing the implementation of the principle that the measure of monitoring communication should be applied as a last resort. Despite all the legal provisions and effective criminal sanctions in our country, there have been problems both due to legal regulations and practices. This report by our commission has been an important study that will shed light on the work of relevant institutions and on the legal arrangements to be made in this context during the next legislature. As I put an end to my words, I thank you again to all my friends, and to the members of the Commission, who have done the work of the Commission, and to all of you, my respect, my love, and my respect.
tbmm-2014-06-26sit05spe0078par0109	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Mountain. Members of parliament, this concludes a general discussion on the Commission for Parliamental Research, which has been established on the purpose of establishing measures relating to the Freedom of Communication and the Secret of Private Life and the Containment of Violations. Thank you, sir. We now move on to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since it has been decided that there will be no commission after this, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (July 1st 2014) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
