tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Khakat MP Reşat True, who wants to talk about the problems and measures of Turkish children living in the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0002par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the problems of Turkish youth living in Europe. I salute the High Council. At first, when our people who went abroad to work for economic and other reasons saw the high-level conditions of life in these countries, they settled there with the charm of these places and took their families. After all, we're going to the second, third and fourth generation. Depending on this, intercultural exchange has gained momentum, and there have been significant changes in our people, social and cultural structure. Some of those who left their wives and children in Turkey have remarried and had children. Those who have taken their families and others who have found employment have had serious problems due to incompatibility with the conditions of the countries they have found. Children's education has failed as a result of dissonance, and many other problems have arisen, I'm afraid. Among Turkish children, alcohol, cigarettes, drug addiction have been a serious problem. The number of incompatible, psychological problems that are constantly in conflict with the family and its environment is increasing. Among these young people, the rate of criminal activity is unfortunately very high. There are over 30,000 Turkish prisoners in prisons in the European Union countries. Most of these are due to drug crime, which is increasing. Turkish youths among East-West cultures fail to learn enough about both cultures, so they fail in life and education. However, those who have been able to receive strong family support have been able to overcome the problems they face, have successfully completed their studies, have succeeded in working life; those who have failed are looking forward to a very bad life. Furthermore, in Europe, in various countries, for example in Germany, it is seen that youth agencies have taken thousands of Turkish-rooted children unfairly from the hands of families. They raise these children by giving them away to families who are away from their own culture. It is listed as a German citizen, not Turkish. So, various reasons for the Turkish child's family are being taken by force. The mother, the father, and the relative can't reach the child, the child is lost. In fact, sometimes children are torn away from families from a simple fight, from water. Families are miserable because they don't know the law well. They don't know what to do. Therefore, supporting the unclaimed Turkish children must surely support civil society organizations established to defend their rights financially and spiritually. There are many associations throughout Germany, but in the beginning, I want to tell you about one in particular.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0003par0011	Mr. President, can you stop humming?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0002par0012	There is a very important association called the Hope Star Association, founded by Kamil Altay and his friends. This association works in many different ways, trying to reach out to the families of these children, making all kinds of sacrifices. We have to support this association and the others. If we support them, we'll have more of those people, and the Turkish children will be taken care of. Those people need to be protected, they need to be with them, because the number of victims and victims of families is increasing day by day. In European countries, where foreign hostility grows day after day, the family, the community, especially our state, has been given important tasks. The Government of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the President of Dolphin Emre Cultural Centres, children and young people, must prepare various projects that will be attractive to them, have our children, bring them to our Turkey. We need to work at the point where they raise our children by national and spiritual values, and we need to make them love our country. We are obliged to raise children who know Turkish very well, who speak best, who know their history at every point, who know its history, who understand it well, who have all kinds of national and spiritual values in their country, and who need to own it. It's the only way we can keep our young people, because it says that if we don't have our pasts and children in the countries of the European Union and over 3.5 million other places, we'll have a historic responsibility, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0003par0015	Mr. President, I strongly condemn friends who don't listen to the speaker and make noise.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0004par0016	The second off-the-book statement belongs to Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan who wants to talk about the problems in Artvin. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0005par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to address the Orcians, especially those who watch us at the head of television. Dear MPs, I've made many speeches about the Cerrattepe massacre in Artvin. I'd like to tell you about another aspect of the mining operation in Cerrattepe. One of Artvin's most beautiful villages, the village of Orulu, remained in the dam because of the construction of the Deeper Dam. Because of its stay in the dam basin, the village moved to another large altitude. The place where this village was before was in the Copic basin, and now the village had to move from the basin to a higher altitude because of the dam, my dear friends. Consider this village: It was one of Artvin's most beautiful villages, the village of the most beautiful fruit, the most beautiful vegetable, a hundred years ago when it was occupied by the Russians, a magnificent village of patriots, a private village of Artvin. My dear friends, it was such a village that the graves of this village fell under 100 metres of water, their people moved into a new settlement. People thought we got rid of the dam. They thought the dam had put aside the disaster they had on themselves, but at that point, they faced another plague. My dear friends, about the mine they wanted to remove in Cerattepe, the producer said he was going to do it in closed gallery style, and now he's made a new application, he said: "No, I'm putting it aside. I'm not gonna do it in a closed gallery, I'm gonna run an open-field business. I will travel the roads of this dam which I have built in open space, from the middle of the new village, the village of Orcuç, the village of Orjuç, to move the mine to Samsun, and from there to the middle of the village where the Orcuç had been moved. In the town's report, foreign people have done studies on road work, that the foreign firm's authorities will travel through the village without permission from any institution, that the village will be located just above the village in forest areas, on its plateaus, in its barracks, in its mountains, and in the mining activity in Ceratepe. They called the carabinieri, the carabinieri didn't do anything. From here I cry to all Turkey: We destroyed one of Artvin's most beautiful villages, the village of Orulu, because of its stay in the Deep Dam, my dear friends. They left those villagers' graves under 100 metres of water. They have no gravestones to read to their mothers, fathers, grandparents, and their grandmothers. Now we put them aside, and we tell them, "No, we're not satisfied with them, we need to stick you with a second dagger. We want a wide road to mining activity from the new settlement. All my citizens in the fast village, all my citizens, have stated that they do not want this path under their signature, that they oppose mining activity within their village limits, and that they oppose this road work, this mining activity, through the legal and democratic struggles that they will do in the coming period. From here, I salute the people of the fast village, who have fought this glorious battle, with no distinction of political opinion, with respect, with love. As the local MP, I would like to express once again that I am on the side of their struggle from the great Parliament. Artvin has another problem: Arhavi. There's also a problem with Arhavi, my dear friends. I spoke with the press conference I held in Parliament last week. MNG Holding, Mehmet Nazif Günal -- the son of Arhavi, son of Arhavi, who is running a hydroelectric plant in Arhavi. He kills nature in spite of its decisions, ignoring all the rules, putting aside the law, putting aside the public authority, putting aside the public authority, and you can't make any way here. Despite the decrees of the State's Special Administration, he slaughters nature, and slaughters Kamilet Valley. From here I speak to Mehmet Nazif Günal. You are also the child of the land, the child of Arhavi. Let them go. You should not touch the Kamilet Valley, but only drink from it. Therefore, I condemn the MNG Holdings, which continue to run the MNG Holdings there, despite the decision to stop running the road construction for the second time, and from here I say to Mehmet Nazif Günal. Once again, don't kill the Kamilet Valley between the tides of building a community home in Arhavi, building Artvin headquarters and building a TORGEV dorm. If you have a claim on it, you'll be running for mayor in 2019, you'll be running for mayor in Arhavi, and we'll understand your political claims. Thou art the son of the land, and of the land, and of Arhavi, and of the valley of Kamilet, and of the wilderness; and if thou destroyest, thou shalt not be forgiven, neither shall the Arhabili forgive thee, nor Artvinite forgive thee. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0006par0029	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Kayseri MP Ismail Tamer, who asked for a comment on investments made for Ercies in Kayseri. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0007par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. In my speech today, I will introduce to you a little bit of Kayseri. I will tell you about Kayseri. Kayseri is a city in the heart of Central Anatolia, surrounded by deserts, where he brings his own bread out of stone. (AK PARTY) Because it has a history that dates back to 4,000 years ago. Many civilizations have come and gone, but what is Kayseri famous for? He's famous for his trade. In recent years, there has been a Ercices Project that was launched five years ago by our Metropolitan Municipality. The Ercices Project is a project that began five years ago, and will now be completed in about a year and a half. The Ercijas Project, in turn, shaped Kayseri, as follows: The wife of Ercijas was the profit of Kayseri. He must have turned it into this. Here I also cherish our esteemed President. I also want to thank him for his service. How did this happen? The infrastructure was first done, the lower roads were built, the sewers were built. Just above that, 22 hotels were auctioned off and sold to various companies as a result of the tender. Two of them were made, and now a total of 200 kilometers [100 km] of runways have ended, and for today, they have now been placed in the ministry. Two years later, the other hotels will be finished, while Kayseri Ercijas will rise to a separate position. When we look at the world, let's remember an Innsbuck. I'd like to remind you of the Innsbruck of Austria. In the 600 to 700,000-dominated city there, there are about 30,000 commercial businesses today. Right after that, there are thousands of other people here who eat bread from here. So, when we look at it, in 2010, this city was able to make, like, $7 billion in revenues, just from the mountain, with the system that these businesses brought in. Although there is nothing around him, Kayseri has already signed on to this new project, and has completed most of the important projects. Dear friends, there will be 6,000 residents a day in hotels in Kayseri, and between 25,000 and 30,000 tourists will come to Kayseri. Of course, in an hour, there'll be about 35,000 people taking advantage of this wiretap, which is not to be trifled with. One of the most important features of this is the Kayseri Tourism Master Plan, which has three legs, and the third leg of the Kaiseri Tourism Plan is: Mechanical facilities -- most of them are finished -- silks, profit units, two out of social facilities, others made, restaurants, parks, health units, shopping units, day-to-day sites, ski facilities and mosques. The bed capacity of the hosting facilities, which currently has around 800, is now in service. Besides him, sports were also planned for the summer as well as for winter sports, sports activities in the summer, such as climbing, mountain walks, mountain bikes, kites and parachutes, as well as free style skis, snowboarding, return skis, skiing, northern discipline. In short, we want to say that Kayseri saw his wife, Ercinias' wife, and he managed to turn it into profit, and it began, and it will end after two years. I congratulate and congratulate everyone who's worked on the whole project, especially our mayor, who's been working here, and I give you all my compliments. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0008par0047	Thank you. Mr. Vural, you have a request.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0009par0049	Thank you. Mr. President, as a member of parliament, we direct our questions to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we seek answers to the ministers in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is what the Constitution has given us. Both the questions sent by lawmakers and the answers given by the minister are important documents on how they represent and see national sovereignty in which they exercise their authority. In this framework, there were questions that I had asked the Home Secretary in October 2013: "What street and street parking business is being done by which person and institutions? How did it happen that those parking lots on the street and on the street were given to private people, companies? Is there a board that determines parking fees? I submitted my questions, saying, "Is there any cutbacks from the collection?" Mr. President, a foreign-appointed, bureaucratic oligarchy, representative of the deep AKP, and a Minister of the Interior who threatens the state of law, has sent me an answer that I think is disrespectful to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: In the article related to Mr. Oktay Vural's written question motion -- this is the main one -- has been reviewed. In Ankara, parking structures are under the framework of labour and procedures legislation on rent and auditing of parking structures. I'll give you what you need. Look at that answer! If that came to you, you'd tear it up and throw it away. The representative of the Council of Ministers of the bureaucratic oligarch, who looked down on Parliamentary Presidency, has insulted the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the MP who gave the authority to oversee the sovereignty of the nation. I'm sending him a refund. You'll know your place, and you won't get past the questions the congressman asked. I wanted to share that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0010par0059	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98 and TBM Constitution in order to determine the measures that must be taken to ensure the effective protection of consumer rights. [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 10) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] 11) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 15) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] Reason: In Turkey, because of the illegal practices of banks, our people suffer a great loss, and are openly exploited by unfair fees taken under various names. Charges and commissions taken unfairly from banking transactions, primarily credit card dues, have become almost the main source of income in the banking sector. For example, the banking sector's income under the credit card fee has reached a level of 4.5 billion dollars per year, which is 25 per cent of the annual profits of the banking sector, provided by a number of court decisions and the thousands of decisions made by the Consumption Committees of Compulsors. The Turkish banking sector stands, not by its basic activities, but by unfair wages and commissions from the citizen. As a matter of fact, news has been reported as banks have recently started to charge people who have never used their credit cards, and some banks charge $5 per call from people who use their credit card debt via voice or text. Banks, which receive an unfairly "account operating fee" from deposit accounts, are able to collect this fee even from accounts set up to grant scholarships to students. In addition to many fees and commissions, a simple balance imaging process in automatic withdrawal machines has begun to be paid. The downside is similar lawless practices are being done by government banks. The banks show contracts they signed with their clients as the basis of these wrongly collected fees. However, these contracts also violate the Law on the Protection of the consumer, as well as the Bank and Credit Cards Law. This is consistent with the decisions made by the courts, including the Supreme Courts, and by the Disposal Committees. As a matter of fact, victims who have applied to the Referee Committees and the Judiciary authorities for these unfair fees are able to get the money they have to pay back. However, even though there are around 51 million credit cards in Turkey, the number of people applying for the consumer rights arbitration committees does not find even 55,000, according to 2011 data. And that's what keeps banks from going cold-bloodedly illegal. There's a huge lack of law and looseness in the industry against consumers. The existing laws are considered ineffective by banks, while the protection mechanisms brought by these laws are not effectively used by our citizens. The Banking Control and Editing Board is acting as representatives of banks and not the state, taking no precautions against this irregularity and unlawfulness. The Constitution of 172. "The state takes protective and enlightening measures for consumers, encouraging consumers to protect themselves." Thus, in the face of unjust practices, the real work falls to the government. But like the BDDK, the government tolerates the continued lack of law and exploitation of our poor people. The High Assembly of the People, Turkey, has to do its part in the Grand National Assembly, the nature of its purpose and reason for its existence. If the public and the public don't have their interests, and the People's Assembly doesn't, it won't be possible to tell them that our country is ruled by democracy. On these grounds, I respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution, under Articles 104, 105, and Article 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures needed to be taken to ensure the effective protection of consumer rights. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the causes of poverty and poverty on the basis of unsatisfactory needs, I respectfully ask that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104, 105 of the Constitution, 98, Turkish National Assembly's Institution. 21/06/2012 [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] 14) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 15) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 16) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 17) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] 18) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 19) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[40s.]] Poverty is a condition where individuals or our people do not achieve the minimum level of prosperity that can sustain their lives. In this form of poverty, the individual's needs are underprivileged. Poverty can arise from country to country or geography to geography for different reasons. The main reasons are environmental reasons, economic reasons, political reasons and social reasons. Among the obvious causes of poverty are unemployment at the top. The poor fuels selected for lack of conditions trigger environmental endings, wastes of food, poverty. Wastes of water in irrigation are triggered by the damage caused by economic inadequacies. Political policies can lead to great poverty. Particularly the wrong policies followed, low support for agriculture and farming, the distortion of industry, pollution, poverty. The lack of support for education leads to the growth of a poor generation. In countries with overpopulation, poverty is known to be a major problem. In particular, a country that is unconscious and underprivileged in birth control can lead to overpopulation and deviant urbanization. Brain migrations and historical forms of governance can leave people and communities poor. The rise in prices of basic needs in our country is a rapid rise in poverty in society because there should be a rise in income, while there should be no increase in income. In our country, the rate of unemployment is growing as price increases continue. Our country's population is increasing rapidly, while the poverty rate is increasing. There is an obligation to prevent poverty, to make arrangements to improve the situation of our citizens who live on the edge of poverty. The most basic needs are food, electricity, increased gas prices, leading to reasons that increase poverty. As part of all these issues, I respectfully submit to the need for a parliamentary investigation in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98, Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution, in order to establish the reasons for our country's poverty and to lead to solution-oriented efforts in the fight against poverty. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In agriculture, we propose and propose that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to investigate the problem of input costs, to discuss with the parties of the issue, to investigate the methods and measures that will lower costs. 1) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] 9) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 15) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] Agricultural policies, which are being implemented, cause the cost of the product to be higher than the price, so that the farmer can avoid producing. The price of agricultural products has been up for years, and our agricultural production is at a standstill because agriculture is far behind in input prices. The wrong policies have hit our economy hard with one side, while the other makes it difficult for our citizens to access enough, healthy, and cheap food. The farmer's withdrawal from producing made it impossible for the growing population of the country to feed by the time it reaches 74 million today. Imports have begun to meet the need, increasing the number and quantity of imported products, making imports of agricultural products an important item in the open. In 2011, our country paid about $2 billion for grain and grain products, $3 billion for herbal oil. Turkey, which is a textile country, has been importing 1 million tonnes of cotton every year for five years. The price of cotton imports has increased worldwide over $3 billion last year. Turkey's total number of imports in 2011 is 240.8 billion dollars, and $8.8 billion of that amount belongs to agricultural imports. The encouragement we withhold from our own farmer provides for farmers from other countries through imports; we enrich them instead of our own farmers, we increase their prosperity. In order to better describe the deadlock situation our farmer is in, the changes in input products and product prices over the past decade must be compared: A liter of diesel is $1.09 in 2002 and 3.76 in 2012. It should also be noted that the masoth has risen to 4 lira levels in the past months. However, 1 kg of bread wheat was 230 cents in 2002 and 665 cents in 2012. So in 2002, our manufacturer would have to sell 4.73 kg of wheat to buy 1 litre of diesel, while in 2012, he would have to sell 5.65 kg of wheat. Similar results apply to other products, such as fertilizer and food. For example, A. The price of sulfate per ton has increased five times since 2002. This increase has been 6.5 times the price of urethra and 4.5 times the price of DAP. However, the price of agricultural products was 250 euros/tons in 2002, while the price of 2011 was 530 euros/tons in corn products. The sunflower was 460 TL/tons in 2002 and 1,200 TL/tons in 2011. The average increase remained at 2-2.5 stories. In order for the agricultural producer to hold on to the agricultural sector, they must provide sufficient income from this sector. So much so that in the state of Izmir, which is known as "the potato barn," the farmer's crop was left in the field, where the cost of 1 kg of potatoes was 30 to 40 cents as of today, and the price of 1 kg was up to 10 cents. The current agricultural policy is no longer sustainable. In order to get back to adequate and sustainable agricultural production, to get our farmer to eat, to feed the whole country, we need to lower the cost of input. In addition to the direct methods used in lowering input costs, such as the removal of the gas and VAT used in agriculture, the methods of mass purchase, logistics, storage through clustering companies, as well as the inclusion of R&D and scientific studies that will enable the production of entries abroad. The Agricultural Law envisions a budget for support at 1 per cent of GDP. It is necessary to ensure that even half of this has been achieved effectively. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. İzmir MP Hülya Güven has been nominated for a membership of the Republican People's Party Group, which is empty in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Plan and Budget Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 3rd place, in support of Research Infrastructures and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In yesterday's merger, talks were completed on the first part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on article 1: Number 593 is the number of the First Amendment. The purpose of this Law, which is mentioned in Article 1, is to submit and propose the addition of the declaration of the declaration of the higher education institutions and public, private sector and civil society. Alim Light Reşat Right Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Murat Basesgioğlu Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 1st edition of the Law Bill for Supporting Research Infrastructures 593. Article 1. The purpose of this law, which is in its joke, is to provide and propose increased investments in the R&D in Turkey, and the addition of the declaration of cooperation between universities and industry. Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Ahmet Şimit Özşım Haluk Eyidoğan Gürkut Acar Ali Sarıbaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0011par0260	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0010par0261	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0012par0262	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0010par0263	Haluk Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0013par0265	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to support research infrastructure to express my views on the Dair Bill. Our country is among the developing economies. It's complicated and difficult to become a country with an developed economy from the developing economy. In this process, a planned, constantly supported approach to scientific studies and with strategic perspective is needed. As emphasised on the importance of research development, the common mid-income trap is an issue that our country faces today. Aside from the consumption-based growth model of our country, which is now in its prime of effort to become an advanced economy, a growth rate based on production needs to be maintained. But it's not just enough to produce. In doing so, the added value should produce high goods, and for that, it should increase the input of technology. The problem with low profit margins, which our exporters often complain about, is that it can only be overcome by an organised economic growth model to deal with this medium-income trap. The mid-income trap is a situation in which countries, such as Turkey, strive to join the middle income group, the high income group, are struggling to join the economies. It's a handicap that middle-income countries face in the event that production processes and therefore exporters are incapable of raising their added value. In order to increase added value, technology needs to be invested decisively in research development activities. A long-term, decisive and planned economic management is also essential to doing so. In the 1960s, Turkey and South Korea, with similar economic structures and size, were often mentioned as being involved in developed economies without falling into the middle income trap. South Korea has taken steps to become an economy that produces from the 1960s and has managed to increase its quality and level of technology in its production process. Of course, in terms of international balances, it is important to remember that the position of South Korea (South Korea) has been carefully assessed, and that South Korea (Sorea) has been selected as one of the countries and is considered especially an investment point. It is clear that a stable rise in this area is essential. In the 1960s, however, Turkey developed the importer industry and produced medium-level technology, while in the 1980s, it developed an export-based growth trend, returning to low-tech technology, re-engineering to middle-level technology production in the 1990s. With a continuous strategy, South Korea has been able to become part of the developed economies without falling into the middle-income trap. As of this date, the difference between economies that have been facing each other through the 1980s has been seriously opened against our country. Our addition value is very low in our total export of high-tech products exports. Although it has risen in the early 2000s, it has been re-educated since 2002. It is only possible to increase this rate with a comprehensive development base strategy. To do that, you have to analyze today well, see what happens in the future. Let's not forget, according to the world's major reports, reports of future predictions made ten years ago today have completely changed, but the government still doesn't realize it. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0014par0272	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Number 593 is the number of the First Amendment. Article 1. The purpose of this law, mentioned in the joke, is to provide and propose the addition of the declaration of the higher education institutions and public, private sectors and NGOs. Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0015par0279	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0014par0280	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0016par0281	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0014par0282	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0017par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on the 1st Article of the Law Bill 593. I salute the High Council. The development of a country depends on its development, technological growth, progress, and the size of research and development spending. Given the underdeveloped countries, research and development spending is seen to be very low in national revenues and very high in developed countries. Advanced countries devote a large share of national income to research, while new technologies apply to the economy, with more development. Sweden shares 2.8; the United States and Japan 2,71; Austria divides 2.30 per cent of national income; unfortunately, our country only splits between 02 per cent and 06 per cent. It's clear that our country is so far behind that it can't make advances in technology. Every budget talk in the past ten years, the AKP's power must allocate more interest in research and development. Unfortunately, although it has been said, there has not been much distance. If our country wants to have a say in the world, it has to put it above 2 percent. In addition, the number of technical staff and scientists involved in research and development in our country is unfortunately insufficient, very few. According to EU countries, the number of people involved in the research and development activities of 10,000 people in our Turkey is at the end. Turkey is far, far behind in the technician's position of 0.5 per 10,000, at the scientist's point of 1.5. In Germany and the Netherlands, the proportions are 10 times higher. Therefore, the number of scientific publications is very few for other countries. The greater the number of scientific articles per 100,000 in one country, the more obvious it is for development. Technologies within universities in our country must be heavily supported. Industrial and university should work together and use the same language. However, everyone works under very difficult conditions, from the study of our universities to the research worker, to the professor, to the professor, to the professor, to the living of their lives. Their salary is very poor, and their staff is unfortunately not given by the SEC, or very difficult. The fees for university personnel have been well below the teachers who work at the Ministry of National Education. While the National Ministry of Education teacher was in great difficulty, all of our teachers who worked at the university unfortunately entered the same vortex and faced huge problems. When will the government reach out to the university professors, how will these people be compensated? And we want something from these people at the point of research and development, and we want to contribute to the development of our Turkey. At this point, however, we need to quickly make decisions to improve the condition of these people, to increase their salaries, or to increase their income from return capital. In recent years globalization activities have been going on at great speeds. There is also a high rise in RD activities, which are part of globalization. As Turkey, we must not fall behind here, either. Because of competition, productions of technological innovations are not given to others by companies or are asked for large sums of money. Hence, large companies are obliged to establish and develop the RD departments. The firms must build their own RD equipment, and it must be the government's duty to support it. The government, the university and the private sector co-operation must be done very well in order to ensure the work and brain power necessary for RD. While implementing RD policies, the external method must not be imported; it must adopt a new approach to the country's own conditions. However, while this is being done, foreign samples should also be thoroughly studied. In technological development, foreign capital should be brought into the country, but domestic capital and domestic industry should not be forgotten, and all support should be given to them. Local capital and corporations must be absolutely, absolutely supported. If today, Ireland, which is strong in RD, has tripled the welfare of countries like Israel, and Turkey is in its place, then there is a problem here. Let's focus on economic stability, then on RD. The approach is very, very wrong. He says our country has no time to wait any longer in the developing world, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0018par0294	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0019par0295	The decision is enough....
tbmm-2014-07-03sit01spe0018par0296	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit02spe0018par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 1st article of the Law Bill 593 rows, there was not enough decision to vote on the Constitutional MP Reshat Right and his friends' motion. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0018par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 1st article of the Law Bill 593 rows, there was not enough decision in the 2nd vote of Tokat MP Reshat Right and his friends' motion. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 2 that I'm reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We would like to submit and propose that the declaration of "executes" in Article 2 of the current 593 law bill. Pervin Buldan Faysal Sarıstar İdris Baluken Leader of Fair Zozani Secret Tilleyya Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2nd Amendment to Supporting Research Infrastructures 593 We propose and propose that the statement of "a chief of staff, two consultants and a secretary" be brought after the declaration "in the body" found in Article 1 of Article 1. Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Ahmet Şimit Özşım Haluk Eyidoğan Gürkut Acar Ali Sarıbaş 2nd of Law Bill 593. Article 1 of the article. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Alim Ikım Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Ali Halaman Murat Basesgioğlu Mehmet Günal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0020par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0018par0028	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0021par0029	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0018par0030	Mustafa Kalaycı Konya MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0022par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This bill, which envisions the support of research infrastructure, is an important arrangement, even though its contents are late and inadequate. Turkey is still far behind in its performance of science, technology and innovation. According to the World Economic Forum's 2013-2014 Global Competition Report, Turkey ranked as the 44th, 45th in the global competitiveness ranking, 45th in the innovation capacity, 52nd in the university-industrial union in the R-Ge, 63, the 63th in the quality of scientific research institutions, 68, and 53, and the number of scientists and engineers in the number of useful models and patents in the number of companies. If you look at countries in the world that are able to maintain high growth rates for years on end, these countries produce high added products and exports based on these products. A major breakthrough in the field of RD, innovation and technology must be made so that such production and exports can be made in our country, but our industry can't get into the intensive production structure of RD. In 2002, our RD spending, which was 0.53 per cent of the illegal domestic product, increased to 0.92 per cent in 2012. This rate was far below the target of 2 per cent set in the Ninth Development Plan, while at the same time below half of the European Union's average. At the same time, the same proportion of R&D spending shows that national income is about 3.5 times higher. The G.R.E. spending rate was 1.8 per cent for 2018; 3 per cent for 2023. However, given the past years performance of AKP power, it is unrealistic to be hopeful for the future. Because it doesn't seem realistic that in the past five years, only 0.25 points have increased by 0.39 points in the past decade, this rate will increase by 2.08 points in the next five years, while in the next decade it will increase by 2.08 points. The engine power of growth across the world is the capacity for exports based on the manufacturing industry of economies. The share of high-tech products in industrial production and exports has reached double households in many countries, while Turkey has dropped considerably during the AKP period. In 2003, the share of high-tech products, which were 5.7 per cent in industrial production, was reduced to 3.5 per cent in 2012; again, in 2002, the share of high-tech products, 6.2% in exports, dropped to 3.7 per cent in 2012. Innovation and technology infrastructure are not strong and it is impossible to achieve high growth goals with a production structure that is not based on a jump in the manufacturing industry. During the AKP period, the Turkish industry was faced with the destruction of cheap intermediaries from abroad due to consumption, hot money and import policies, and its sectoral priorities were increasingly driven to an imported structure based on montage. Turkey, industrialization aside, is becoming increasingly unindustrial. The study of the Istanbul Industrial Chamber, based on the data of 249 of our major industrial enterprises in 2001-2010, makes it clear that our industry has become a montage weight, and the added value has decreased relatively. Our industry and our export dependency on imports has risen to alarming levels. It's not possible to explain it only with energy imports. As part of the internal processing regime, exports and imports related to this have increased to 62.1 per cent, or $62 for $100 exports. As our country, we need new horizons, new projects and solutions in the economy. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0023par0042	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2nd Amendment to Supporting Research Infrastructures 593 We propose and propose that the statement of "a chief of staff, two consultants and a secretary" be brought after the declaration "in the body" found in Article 1 of Article 1. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0024par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0023par0050	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0025par0051	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0023par0052	Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0026par0055	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are undoubtedly one of the keys to scientific and technological development: advanced research and development infrastructure. We need to talk about the location and material of this bill of law, and we need to talk about the scientists who are going to glorify those places, to make them universal. The people who give soul and body to research infrastructure are highly trained, highly skilled, well-equipped scientists and technocrats. We must make sure that the teaching system, which discovers, directs, and nurtures those scientists, is universally measured. We need to create incentives for the needs of growing scientists. We need to discuss the situation of the institutions that employ scientists. We have to ask ourselves: What is the vision and the mission of raising scientists in the educational policies that we built in Turkey and used to play with it all the time? Does anyone know where the graduates of public, foundations, private institutions are in the production of science and technology, is there a statistical assessment? You know, the brain drain is still going on. What do we do to explore children with the potential of scientists, children with superior talent and superior intelligence, starting in primary school or even in kindergarten? In Turkey, the proportion of children with superior talent and superior intelligence is 2%. We have an estimated 340,000 intelligent and gifted children in Turkey. How do we grow these discoveries? What is the status of the Ministry's Office of Special Education and Guidance? We're hearing news that the Ministry has not yet begun its strategic plans. The government upgraded the Strategic Plan 2009-2013 for highly skilled individuals to 2013-2017. There have been many meetings between 2009 and 2012, but today nothing has changed, decisions cannot be made, plans and practices cannot be made because of people who are incompetent in their field. Science and art centers have been established. I'm guessing between 20 and 25. The number of information has been increased, but there's a claim around here that the task force is being carried out by the men. INTERVIEWs are opened on the upper level of some schools or in schools that are not suitable for their purpose. The 18-year-old MELSEMs had no program studies until March 2013, no legal regulations were made, and they are still being managed under an inadequate directive. I told you that in Turkey, there are 2% of children with superior talent and intelligence. Early recognition is very important in the education of highly skilled children who will make an important contribution to the research scientist pool. In the past, the election in the 1st grade is now held after the 4th grade. Due to the delay, children with superior abilities are lost. The education of highly skilled children is being tried to squeeze into the support training rooms at schools. Who's gonna teach them in elementary school? Teachers who have no class teach because others can't attend more than 30 hours of classes. I'm going to give you a painful insight: In most schools, children with superior skills and superior brains are unfortunately treated as disabled because those schools are more disabled and autistic. Today, many children are wasted in front of their parents and their teachers who notice them. For countries, highly skilled children for RD institutions are seeds that will eventually become huge fruit trees. In this sense, we need to put both the state of our universities, which are the source of human and infrastructure of the R&D, and today's YOK, and the higher education system, under the microscope. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0027par0062	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that the declaration of "executes" in Article 2 of the current 593 law bill. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0028par0069	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0027par0070	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0029par0071	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0027par0072	Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0030par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, on the whole bill, yesterday we shared with you our general approach, our views. As this bill is available, we have stated that the chances of building a ground for advanced technology creation in Turkey are slim. If we move mainly from the fact that Turkey's industry is now in existence, there's nothing more to be said here than a bill that now aims at brain production, prioritizes brain production, and is a little delayed as friends see in the market, and so there's not much to be said here. Nevertheless, we hope, express our wishes, that we desire it to be the cause of progress, the creation of advanced technology. With current approaches, with current resource creation, you have to see that that's not possible. I've said it yesterday, and I'll say it again today: the incentives for RD investments, or the interest invested in the development of the defence industry alone, are not beyond what we've expressed. The way our universities are at this point, it's pathetic. Look, you're talking about advanced technology at a time when almost a third of the country was in darkness. Now the villagers are doing mass demonstrations due to blackouts. There are demonstrations, and today the TEDAS building has been burned down. Why? They can't pay their debts. Because they can't pay for the electricity they use in their drinking wells, they're out of power, and now there's action in many places because of this blackout. Especially after the Metropolitan Municipality Act passes here, the government is seeking to build a solution by uploading debts from the state's past to city municipalities, which the state has not collected so far. Behold, the farmers are standing, and the peasants are rebellious in the land of Şanliurfa. And you're telling the city council that you have to tie the drinking water meter to the houses because you've brought all the villages into neighborhood status with that law. Metropolitan municipalities have to put a meter on all the houses in those villages, but they can't because there's no system so far, the government hasn't developed a system like that. The citizen provides water from underground with his own resources, with his drillings, with his own resources. And collectively, there's an electric meter in there, and from a single meter, all the water supply is being provided for. Tens of billions of debts have been accumulated, and you will now go to municipalities and collect this debt. You say, "The municipalities don't do that." If Şanlıurfa Metropolitan City can do this, go out and testify here. Can Şanlıurfa Metropolitan City take service to the villagers about supplying this kind of drinking water to villages? He can't.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0031par0080	He can't, he's out of class at zero. People are victims.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0030par0081	Why can't he? Because you can call it technological production, because it lives in medieval conditions, it's not in the middle ages. You can perceive advanced technology as a body transport, you can accept it that way, but the advanced technology that the world accepts is not just carrying a body. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In many cities, let alone advanced technological development, people still have to live in the dark under the present conditions, in this age, and the government doesn't move its resolve. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0032par0086	The victim, indeed, has spoken the truth, orator. Twelve hours of power outage in this era...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0033par0087	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the third article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to Supporting Research Infrastructure 593 is in session. Article 1. We propose and propose that it be replaced by the "National Minister of Education," the president of the National Education Board, the President of the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the President of the Turkish Traders and Artists." Mehmet Ali Sesame Haluk Ahmet Silver Malik Ecder Özdemir Ümit Özşüşüşük Haluk Eyidoğan Gürkut Acar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Confirm the board members of research infrastructure from the list of board members proposed by the institute of research infrastructure." We propose and propose that the "I" clause be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Faysal Sarıstar İdris Baluken To the presidency of TBM, 3rd of the 593 Numbered Bill of Laws. Article 1. After the last statement of the joke, the article of the article will be released by the Council of Ministers, 2. We propose and propose that the extension of the reference (j) be removed from the substance text and added to the other nearby research infrastructure to come after the declaration of the material. Alim Light Zuhal Gunman Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Murat Basesgioğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0034par0114	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0033par0115	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0035par0116	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0033par0117	Zuhal Topçu, Ankara MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gunner.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0036par0120	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the draft of the Law on Supporting Research Infrastructures. I salute you all. Of course, in order to achieve success in such studies, mental transformations must first be carried out, but when we look at it, we think that it can really be discussed whether these mental transformations have been carried out or not. Because when we look at it, what we have right now is how many research centers or universities are being used, what performance they're doing, and how they're doing their input-out analysis. Now, in the current data, we have all of this capacity, and all of the indications of how years of spending on these organizations have not yielded, and when we look at 12 years of practices, policies, we all see how the human element has been destroyed, along with this infrastructure, day by day. Prior to these plans, we have about 200 degrees of university, we have expenses for them; what are the results of input-out analysis, what kind of painting, what kind of picture they offer us; how are the staff here, and what projects are being employed and what projects are being passed around here, and why some of them can't be passed; they need to be thought about. There's a really sick structure right now, and there's the idea of rebuilding a building on this structure -- again on this disease without being diagnosed -- without being analyzed differently. What is the capacity of universities to produce innovation? What ranking do universities rank in, where do they rank in the world? Let's take a look at these first. How can we make better use of the capacity we have, how can we make the human element work? Right now, there's a personnel escape from universities to private sectors or other institutions, especially because when we look at the working environment of universities, the working culture really upsets us. By what criteria are employed personnel taken? In particular, how has the SEC, which has been at the top of universities for years as a coup institution, changed these criteria, and how does it apply pressure? These need to be examined, too. With what merit, what qualities are the people assigned to these positions? Because these people are specifically based on the capacity to create or to create something. From here, we're looking at the salary of the staff now working at the university, especially as individuals with an index for innovation and production, as individuals with an index for research, we're looking at $2,251 lira, $2,693 lira for an assistant professor, $3,544, and the professor is now getting $5,040. And when we look at recent studies of hunger and poverty, the numbers now show that the hunger limit is $1,167, and the poverty limit is $3,772. In this case, we see that the researcher, the assistant professor, and the professor are on the verge of poverty. In spite of all these facts, what idea does this new construction take? First of all, we think it would be much more useful for us to make the best use of this jewel and then come up with a solution. For this, it is especially necessary to reorganise universities and research centres, to be subject to a new organisation, and to follow up on new studies that are needed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0037par0127	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Confirm members of the board of research infrastructures from the list of board members proposed by the institute of research infrastructure." We propose and propose that the "I" clause be removed from the draft text. . Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0038par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0037par0135	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0039par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0040par0137	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0037par0138	I'm reading the reason: Since the board is not in an essay capable of making a scientific and technological assessment, decisions on the use of research infrastructure are recommended to the Governing Body. With this arrangement, the process of producing scientific knowledge will be more healthy. Because the management of the R&D processes within the infrastructure will also be centralised, and if it comes out of the authority and responsibility of the relevant university, there will be disintegration in the infrastructure and education-research processes of the university. The tendency to bureaucratisation and "one-type" will increase, and creativity and innovation will diminish. The relevant university will not be able to determine its role in the success or failure of R&D activities within the infrastructure. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to Supporting Research Infrastructure 593 is in session. Article 1. We propose and propose that it be replaced by "The Minister of National Education," "The President of the National Education Board, the President of the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the President of the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey." Malik Ecder Özdemir (Sivas) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0041par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0037par0148	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0042par0149	We can't agree, Mayor. Yes, Malik Ecder Özdemir, Sivas MP. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0043par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my speech, I salute your grand delegation. Our MPs are expressing our group's views on this bill. I'd like to bring another important matter to the agenda of the High Assembly in my five minutes. My dear friends, yesterday was July 2nd. This history may not mean anything to any of you, but for every person with a little human love, a little conscience, that history was an important date. Twenty-one years ago, on July 2nd, there was a human crime, a drama at the Madimak Hotel in Sivas. Among them were the poets and artists, including Behcet Aysan, Asim Bezirci, Metin Altikok; Mullis Akarsu, Hasret Gültekin, Nisimi Çeş; Koray Kaya, Menekshe Kaya, Asuman Diz, Yasemin Sine, who had not yet reached 14, 15 years of age; and our 33 people, including young children, who had only failed to return to peace and brotherhood, were killed in Madimamah. Although twenty-one years have passed, the fact that the organisers of this massacre were not captured and brought to justice by their true perpetrators and that they had been ruled untraceable about the long-standing case. Dear lawmakers, we all know that the only aim of those who carried out this massacre, who set Madımak (Madımak) on fire, was not our 33 citizens there, but our secular democratic republic was the primary target of the massacre. The desire and desire for us to live as brothers, such as the one and only, like a tree, and like a forest, were wanted to drown in Madimak. In the past, in Maraş, in Çorum, again in Sivas, there were the same sectial quarrels in Sivas, and many poor people who were aiming to start a civil war here in Turkey had failed to recognize the yeast of the Anatolian people because in Anatolia, or rather in Europe, we owe it to one of our secular democratic republics today in Syria, after the 13th century, today in Iraq, when the nations had turned into a blood pool in Iraq, when they had not been able to recognize any kind of provocation in our country, even though they had not experienced a sectal struggle in the 13th century. My dear friends, in Syria, we will form the same expressions of ISIS's people, who have gathered in front of Madimak for eight hours in a manner similar to those who said, "The secularism will be destroyed for eight hours, and the law will come." We need to see together that there will be no benefit to anyone from this sectal conflict. Today I will embrace everyone. Mr. Prime Minister, who tried to enter the presidential elections on his claim, killed 53 Sunni citizens in Hatay. When he said, they drank at the mosque. When he told the lie and the square, they attacked our sister-in-law from Turkey. When he told the lie, he tried to fuel a faction fight in Turkey. My dear friends, we were in Sivas yesterday with 19 of our fellow MPs. Ten thousand people, without fatigue from twenty-one years to this side, have expressed a democratic demand in Sivas, as in all parts of Turkey. What is it? Madimak is a museum of shame. The sad thing is, we haven't heard a sentence from Mr. Prime Minister in 12 years or from the president's office or from your delegation or from the government or from the government in favor or against, and we haven't heard from this side in 12 years. In the face of your insensitivity, people come to you willingly. They say, "The peace comes from the agreement." With an extraction from here, one of you became a oh, good thing they did, they burned it." Because there are some of you who are still members of the parliament, who are the attorneys for the defendants of this case, who are sitting in the office of the Ministry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear friends, I would like to bring this democratic request to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey once again. We have a demand for a museum of enlightenment, not for a conflict, but for humanity, that there be a museum of example in which there will be no more such massacres. I would like to submit this request once again to the attention of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0044par0166	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0045par0169	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit03spe0044par0170	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Ayayadin, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Acar, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Gök, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Danşoğlu, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kökturk and Mr. Serter. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0044par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting on Article 3 of the 593 Law Bill was not enough in the roll call in the vote of Sivas MP Malik Ecder Özdemir and his friends' motion to vote. Now, we're going to recheck with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. 3 - Plan and Budget Commission Reports (1/894) (S. Number: 593) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to the Support of Research Infrastructures in the United States. Article 1. We propose and propose the addition of "a member of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey." Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Ahmet Şimit Özşım To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey "Commite is made up of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Education, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Education, Undersecretary of Science, Industry and Technology, President of the Board of Higher Education and Head of TİBİBİTAK, headed by the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Development." "Commite is comprised of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of National Education, Undersecretary of Science, Industry and Technology, Undersecretary of Higher Education, Chairman of the Higher Education Board, Representatives of concerned NGOs, under the leadership of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Development and Development." We offer and offer to replace it with a statement. Pervin Buldan Faysal Sarıstar İdris Baluken Leader of Fair Zozani Secret Tilleyya Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Amendment in the United States. We propose and propose that the article (1) be changed in the following way. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Ali İlm Ali Halaman Murat Basesgioğlu The Committee consists of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Education, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Economics, Head of the Higher Education Board, TÜBITAK and KOSGEB, headed by the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Development. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0046par0037	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0044par0038	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0047par0039	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0044par0040	Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0048par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I have made a pledge on the 4th Amendment on behalf of the National Party of Action. I salute you all with love and respect. As an institution that is wanted to be established, the RD is taking on a very important mission to show an ideal goal. But one thing to be reminded of here is that the issue of the matter here is that there will be no harm done. So far, there are many such institutions in our country as RD, and many institutions in state institutions still claim to have carried out this function. For example, in the past, there was the Department of Research at TRT, where the TRT workers used to use the term "religious" for it. In other parts of the state, there are a lot of APKs, but they've been assigned to warehouses that don't work, and somehow they've been evaluated by staffs that the administration didn't want. Here, what needs to be focused on is that if an RDD is to be established, and if there is to be useful services for the country with this RD, then the property needs to be done in accordance with its nature. Dear lawmakers, RD is a matter of will, RD is a work of faith, RD is an ideal job, RD is a work of the soul. Today, in the international scene, when you think about what ideals, what values our country still has, in which countries stand up in the international struggle, it's because the truth behind the fact that our country has been skating is that we have been separated from our values as a nation, that we as a nation have lost this soul, that we as a nation have been deprived of that self-esteem. In order to do RD, I would like to point out that infrastructure work is extremely important. But you see, in fact, when universities have to take responsibility for this, you have to appreciate how much they're going to answer for both the tools and the corporate identity and the staff working there. How right would it be for those people to be able to make a profit in the future of those people when they're somehow addicted to their university professors or their research there, and their family and their family are put in a position to think about their child as a commodity? I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. RD can be successful because of a co-direction between all institutions. We see that, let alone the RD, the harmony between state institutions, there is no harmony within a city municipality, and we regret the waste of state resources. The PTT is working separately, the ASKI is working separately, the TELECOM is working separately, the electricity is working separately, and the other is disrupting what one is doing. Now, as an AR-GE, if you can't gather these targets all around you, if you can't make this the ideal of a country, the things that are going to do won't mean anything in that sense either. I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. Is there a will in our country that can evaluate the projects produced by the RD? First of all, did we or did we not show a society that's actually thrown away projects that are produced by a highly intelligent Turkish person, because of the cost of other people's? taken from America, taken from Israel, taken from China, but if my Turkish nation's products are somehow worthless, then what you're going to do won't mean anything. In order for products produced in the AR-GE to express value as a product, they need respect for workers in the AR-GE, and they need dignity from the state official. How is it that when people who work at TÜBİTAK are working as a state institution, when they walk parallel with you today, they are conflicting with us, but these parallel manufacturers are ultimately not worth producing, and I want you to appreciate that. Dear MPs, we don't need to go to America, we don't need to go into space, let's get back to ourselves, let's keep our faith values, the two days are in the same loss. Let's find out what the sentence is, and man will only be rewarded if he works. Then I don't think there'll be any need to set up an RD, so I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0049par0055	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In Article 4 of the current draft law bill 593, "Commite is made up of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of National Education, Undersecretary of Science, Industry and Technology, President of the Higher Education Board and the President of the TÜBITAK, headed by the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Development. " "Commite is comprised of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of National Education, Undersecretary of Science, Industry and Technology, Undersecretary of Higher Education, Chairman of the Higher Education Board, Representatives of concerned NGOs, under the leadership of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Development and Development." We offer and offer to replace it with a statement. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0050par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0049par0063	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0051par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0049par0065	I'm having it read. In Turkey, it is imperative that NGOs be present with a binding political representation in the decision-making mechanisms of critical issues concerning the present and future of society. The determination of research, the creation of infrastructure, the audit of their funds and expenditures, and the management of all of this should not be a monopoly only on state mechanisms. It is important to ensure that NGOs can be actively involved in the entire process, overcoming a central state understanding. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to the Support of Research Infrastructures in the United States. Article 1. We propose and propose the addition of "a member of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey." Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0052par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0049par0075	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0053par0076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0049par0077	Mehmet Ali Sesam, MP of İzmir demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0054par0080	Mr. President, I'd like to explain once again to our fellow MPs and the Minister and the Commission, who have been all over Congress, what we've told them about our motion. You've written a general reason in this law: the main goal of AR-Ge and innovation policies is to increase technological and innovation activities by creating a private sector-based ecosystem based on innovation and to commercialise research results and to contribute to our country's high competitiveness on a global scale with heavy products. The ability of the private sector to make innovation, to develop investigative manpower, to commercialise research results, to increase the efficiency of research support, and to ensure effective use of research infrastructure are the leading policy areas in this area. So, what do we say? What kind of structure have you built for this? The Board of Research Infrastructures, the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors and Directors as the bodies of the Board of Research Substructures Committee and the Committee for Watching and Qualification Evaluation under it. So, who'd you assign here? You've appointed three ministers to the Research Infrastructures Board, you've appointed three undersecretaries to the Watch and Qualification Committee, and then you're saying, in general, that this committee is going to try to commercialise the product and allow this product to be commercialized in the market. Where are the institutions that are going to commercialized here? Where is the Turkish Association of Rooms Stock Exchanges, where is the representative of the SMES, TESK? Why don't you put these on these committees? If you say it's on the Board of Directors, but the Board of Directors gives all vision, politics, and politics to the Governing Body as instructions. If there are no commercial sectors involved in those policies, if there are no representatives of theirs, what will your change in this change in research and studies of the university contribute to transforming acquired information into a commercial product? Will the ministers do it, or will the undersecretaries do it, or will the SEC representative do it, or will it be with entrepreneurial businessmen with the true vision of trade, with these parts in joint management? How are you going to do that without considering it? So, I'm telling you, think it over, Mr. Secretary. Gene, it is not possible for you to get any results from these boards by excluding the business world and the spirit of entrepreneurship from the bureaucratic structure that you've created, one step further from the old structure. The situation of the market is that the market is really, at the RD point, waiting for public support, trying to contribute on its own. But if the public is willing to offer a support for what needs of the market, which products are required in the market, or in what field do they need to be used more effectively, in which case, our competitors are in what area, which we are in, it's possible that they can be shown clearly, but only if there are private sectors and entrepreneurs on the boards of research infrastructure. In particular, representatives of SME-level firms are needed. Look, Mr. Secretary, I'm telling you that when the SMEs get a little stronger, they sell their firms, and they give attractive money to the SMEs that expand in the area of large international capital, and they withdraw from this market. You know why they're pulling out? They can't afford RD or the competition in that market. That's what you should embrace. If this study takes them in, if it reassures them, the public, you walk, I'm behind you, I'll support you. If you say so, Turkish companies can feel strong and be in the international competition market. But now you're leaving them to their destiny, building a new structure with bureaucratic structure. So I suggest you consider our proposal. This is important for the Turkish market. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0055par0087	Thank you. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I make read: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and supply that the declaration of the 5th article of the current draft law, 593 rows, be changed with the declaration. Pervin Buldan Faysal Sarıstar İdris Baluken 593 Line 5 of the Numbered Bill. In accordance with the objective and scientific criteria specified by the entity, we propose and propose that the declaration be added. Ali İkm İkm Murat Basesgioğlu Ali Halaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 5 / 5 of the Bill of Law for Supporting Research Infrastructures in the United States. Article 1. We propose and propose that the application be added to them within 60 days, following the statement made by Kurul in his joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Ahmet Şimit Özşım Turgut Dibek Gürkut Acar Ali Sarıbaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0056par0112	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0055par0113	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0057par0114	We disagree, Mr. President. Speaking on the motion, Turgut Dibek is a Cyclarian MP. Here you go, Mr. Dibek.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0058par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to our motion on the 5th Amendment. I salute you first. Dear friends, before I think about the motion, I'd like to talk about the problem of a very neglected part of the country's busy agenda. I was in his house for about a week, in my territory, in his 40s. As in all parts of Turkey, in my region, our farmer harvests wheat, or even harvests it seriously, and we can say that it is slowly over. I'll tell you what their troubles are, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, and Mr. Eker. I think it's an advantage, a chance, that maybe after my speech, if Mr. President agrees, he'll explain his thoughts with a few sentences, because the public is really waiting for these explanations. Dear friends, this year's Earth crop office has taken a different path. I looked at what they had done in the previous years: here, last year, earlier in June, on June 7th, the Ministry announced the purchase price of an intervention. The citizen has made an ad to buy the wheat at the price of the barley. I looked at 2012, and again on June 18th, the Ministry made such a statement. But this year, in the first week of July, the ministry did not make any statement to make any purchases through the Earth crop office, so it did not disclose an intervention price, nor did it make any attempt to deposit the manufacturer's wheat, its crops, without a price explanation. Of course, our citizen asks why he was involved in such an application. So I've talked to the relevant people, and we've talked to the office managers in Cırklareli, districts. And I've just had a chance to discuss the legwork here with the Minister at least. Here's what the Minister is saying: this year, our producer can sell his wheat from the prices he thinks he wants in the free market. In his understanding, the Ministry. So if we intervene, if we explain a price, I think they're thinking that the price we're describing is going to be below the price the manufacturer is selling in the free market, so the manufacturer is going to be a victim of this; we're watching, we're doing a serious monitoring, we're following a diary, we're going to intervene if we have to. Dear friends, look, Turkey is a big country, we have 780,000 square kilometers. Now, I think it's wrong to think that there's homogeneous production everywhere, that the problems are similar. I mean, the way the supply demand balance seems to be forming in favor of the manufacturer everywhere, the Minister or the Ministry, I leave it to your proper appreciation. Once in my territory, that thought is definitely wrong. Maybe in the early days of production, that supply demand balance could have been in favor of the manufacturer, because it's just being produced, the goods, it's coming out, and the merchants or factories may have bought it at the asking price, but right now -- follow the news, and look; there's the same thing in my province; there's also the same thing in Edirne, where the manufacturer took the wheat back to the stock market because of the prices. He can't find the price to sell his wheat, so he goes back. Now, I think the Minister should bring this up again. In Thrace, our farmer is in serious trouble. Look, the factories buy the wheat. Here, he buys flour factories, he buys bait factories. They also have import permits, they also make foreign import connections. I just saw it in the subtitle. He also got 10,000 tons of wheat, 10,000 tons of barley imported, which is interesting. I wonder what they'll do with it, why they get it every year. But they own factories on the free market that buy the wheat from the manufacturer. The factory owners already took it. There aren't enough flour factories in my area, no bait mills. What's left? Those who buy and sell what we call traders stay. Dear friends, who will they sell this wheat to? Of course they'll sell it to the factories. So he buys the wheat he's selling to the factory from the manufacturer at the price of the factory? What's he doing? Four cents, five cents, they take it from below, they take it down ten cents, and the manufacturer, no matter what, is condemned to a low price that the merchant gave him because he didn't buy his wheat. This must be where the Earth crop office comes in, so the office, which we call the farmer's black-day friend, needs to be activated. They must make a price statement, Mr. Secretary, to announce the price of intervention in my area. Worst case scenario, we'll have our farmer come into the office, unload his goods, deposit his goods, take the receipt, see how much he spills. In the meantime, don't let the merchant be exposed to those speculative prices and not victimized. I demand and pay my respects to you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. 593 Line 5 of the Numbered Bill. In accordance with the objective and scientific criteria specified by the entity, we propose and propose that the declaration be added. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0059par0134	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0060par0135	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0059par0136	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0061par0137	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0059par0138	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0062par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, in fact, one of the things Turkey needs most is RD work, and our country is also very backward in that regard, I'm afraid. I think it would be much more successful if, in the event that some of the things that we've discussed in this law -- I wish -- were fulfilled. Now, of course, we served in universities. There's a unit at universities about research, development, and there's some financial support here. However, in many universities where these financial benefits have been provided, many of these funds are actually spent in a way that cannot achieve their goals, which is spent, so there have been expenses to meet some needs. But we also have some universities that are doing some really serious work. For example -- I don't know if any of you have any information -- I'd like to talk about two very important issues that Seventepe University has done in this field. First of all, it's going to the oil production community, so let's just say, with a mixture of marble powder and some bacteria, it's going to enter the oil production community, and it's going to take a pretty serious step. They also work on producing more organic fertilizers, similar to this one. Again, it continues in a work order that reduces blood values to a much shorter period, down to half an hour, down to ten minutes, during studies on blood measurements. But there are other studies from some international places that can be presented. They also create major obstacles to the ability to transform these works into trades on the international platform, especially by Israel and the United States. Dear MPs, in fact, now that you've distributed a lot of computers, here's the chance computer, but it's a failure. Why? Because it didn't have infrastructure. When you call it a computer, it provides information and services through the information you uploaded into it. But, of course, it won't do you any good if you don't prepare the infrastructure for it. As a matter of fact, if you consider that we do not yet have a software that contains Turkish software characters, there is no such thing as going forward in knowledge or moving forward in research. Therefore, we feel that they should be weighed down first. In this regard, we called it the following of the decree. In particular, we put the word "objective" and "scientific" into the words: Now, in any working order, you know that in our country, there are suddenly differences in the effects of some people when the rules are well-defined within a certain period of time, and they are ignored. Here, sir, these are called because they are not in the law. However, I think it would be useful, Mr. Secretary, to be told that such a statement would be decided with them, which had actually already been measured. So I don't see the point of any rejection here. We have to consider that. Now, our universities, of course, are a unit that raises people who will be the foundation of the subsidiary in the work for the RD. So, in these areas -- you've determined it -- I actually think it's very useful to build thematic labs. I mean, having regional labs would be one of the most important things that would allow people different from those universities to do research there. Because building a lab is so expensive, it's not cheap. And it's very important that this is done in this way, and that -- as I say, in these things -- it's especially objective and really based on scientific criteria. At least the money will be prevented from being wasted. Hopefully, they have central research labs at 49 universities, they're trying to build 45, and there's a lot of that going on, but first of all, there's a lot of problems with the staff at our universities, and we need to get a staff here, but we can't get that staff because the fees are inadequate, and the fees at the universities are not enough. So how does the person who enters as a research officer do research with 1,700 liras, 1,800 liras, that's not possible. I think it should be considered and supported. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0063par0151	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply that the declaration of the 5th article of the current draft law, 593 rows, be changed with the declaration. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0064par0158	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0063par0159	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0065par0160	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0066par0161	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0063par0162	I'm having it read. The amendment was intended to provide meaning integrity in the text of matter and clarify the text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the declaration of "local governments " be added after the declaration of" higher education institutions " in the first article of "Mission, Authority and Responsibility of Research Infrastructures," which is in session 593. 6 of the 593 rows of the Bill of the Law. Article 1 of the article. At the end of the joke (j) bell, we offer and provide support for those who participate in these activities. Alim Ikım Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Ali Halaman Murat Basesgioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 6th edition of the Charter for Supporting Research Infrastructure 593. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the draft text. Hopeless Sedef Little Ramadan Kerim Özkan Ali Sarıbaş Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0067par0191	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0063par0192	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0068par0193	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0063par0194	Umit Özışmiş who wants to speak on the motion, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozgimi.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0069par0197	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you. I told you earlier in my speech, especially since the Industrial, Trade, Energy Commission has technical bills coming in, there's not a lot of political debates, there's a commission where technical issues are discussed, and we're usually in the Commission, when people from industry, from trade, bureaucrats from the industry, and from time to time the university professors' drafts, we're trying to help them where they can't be wrong, where they can be, and it's interesting, when the AKP MPs from the Commission or the subcommittee come to vote when they're in our view, they don't agree with both the General Assembly, and our proposals don't participate. However, in good faith, we're trying to help this law, which later changed the law, that law, that law, that law, we're trying to prevent it from being passed. Earlier, you know, there was a Turkish Trade Law in the past period, and 42 articles were changed before the university teacher applied the law proposal prepared by a university teacher who had not sold a kilo in her life. In practice, we said the wrong things about incentives, when, where you'd go wrong, denied. Mr. Secretary knows very well that today we've said a lot of things that can't be applied or wrong about resource-wasting development agencies that don't do any good today, which don't do any good. When this law comes, it's on the subcommittee, I'm on the subcommittee, and there's a very dangerous and wrong substance here that could cause problems for bureaucrats, college teachers. We told the Commission that the clause had to be removed. Even though our friends supported him, when he came to the General Assembly, we saw that he remained as he was in the bill. Now, the 6th article of the draft law (g) states that it was to make sure that information and improved technologies produced in research infrastructure become commercial values that will contribute to the country's economy, the testing and social development, and to start a company with the board's approval and/or to be a partner in established companies. Dear friends, in research infrastructures, university professors, scientists, who have more basic sciences, have been disciplined. I mean, the teachers who are going to be dealing with basic technology, chemistry, gene technology, if there's a product there, if there's an invention there, why do we have to deal with intelligent jobs? If there really is something produced there and it's going to become commercial, then research infrastructures -- there are thousands, tens of thousands of investors who want to invest today, who want to be entrepreneurs -- we have to pass it on to those investors, who are scientists there, scientists who work in science -- it's not necessary for them to be teachers -- we have to distance them from all of these intelligent jobs. There are some very important issues with that. These people can go to court tomorrow. There may be problems with the assessment of the companies they're going to build, perhaps more importantly, that they're going to share. They can be subjective about which companies to share in, which ones not to share in, and they can face the prosecution. The companies that will be established are anonymous companies. The money for research infrastructure for anonymous companies is government money and public money. One day tomorrow, when these companies go bankrupt, the public's money will disappear. Thanks, there were risks and losses, but there are other challenges, and they are: you brought in a scientist who deals with chemistry, science, nanotechnology, gene technology, put him on the board of this company, put him on the board of your company. If the company goes down, it's fine, but if this company has any debts to finance and insurance before it goes down, these board members are personally responsible. The scientist or teacher who works there could lose what he saved in 30 years in one day. So don't let them start a business, don't let them start a company, but there's a People's Bank in Turkey that will provide funding for information that can be produced and commercialized, and instead of selling the People's Bank, we can turn it back into a mission bank, and the People's Bank can back it up. They also have venture capital partnerships in Turkey, which can provide support for products from such sites, research structures, research institutions, and commercialisation. One of them is that there are other banks and there are SMEs, where the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges in Turkey has huge capital. They can afford to fund companies like this, so they can get rid of all the bad stuff. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0070par0205	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. 6 of the 593 rows of the Bill of the Law. Article 1 of the article. At the end of the joke (j) bell, we offer and provide support for those who participate in these activities. Mesut Dedeoğlu (Heromanmarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0071par0212	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0070par0213	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0072par0214	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0070par0215	Mesut Dedeoğlu wants to speak on the motion, Kahramanmarash MP. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0073par0218	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of our Nationalist Movement Party Group to propose a amendment on Article 6 of the Dair Legislature for Supporting Research Substructures 593. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the development of new products based on knowledge and technology in our universities and the implementation of new production techniques are of great importance to our country. The work of RD is of great importance to a country today and the welfare of the future. Thus, the issue of the RD has become one of the most important issues that our country has been meticulously focused on, not just on our country. Today, almost the level of development of countries is estimated by budgets devoted to RD studies. Unfortunately, our country's share of RD is underprivileged. RD studies should be more supported and more divided. In terms of our country's future and prosperity, RD studies are of great importance. In particular, universities are unable to investigate due to low RD shares. The University of Kahramanmarash Milkyman Imam is only one of our universities. Kahramanmarash Milkyman University has problems with many issues, particularly RD. Our university was founded in 1992, but compared to the universities that were founded in the same years, unfortunately, I regret to say, it was far behind. The reasons for this may be that there was not enough attention at the beginning, the staff was not assigned, the budgets were not prepared, the investments were not made, and eventually the new chapters were not opened, and the students were not taken. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the problems of our Kahramanmarash Milkyman University, and those expectations continue to grow. For efficient and quality education, problems need to be overcome quickly. The problems of our university include physical space problems, publicisation problems, social areas problems and academic and administrative staff problems. The university's academic and administrative staff consists of staff for almost three universities, which are almost the first founding of the university. In addition to six universities of applied sciences, the medical school, which was founded afterwards, the university of applied sciences also employs these staffs. The number of universities, universities, universities, universities of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences is also growing rapidly. Medical School Research and Application Hospital needs to be completed as soon as possible because it's equivalent to human health. The Faculty of Agriculture has a problem with transportation related to research or applications. These areas are 25 kilometers from the faculty. The production facilities of the faculty must also be built as soon as possible. Mr. President, there are also physical space problems, such as offices, classrooms and labs, at the Science Literature Faculty of our Kahramanmarash Milkyman University. The Faculty of Engineering and Architecture teaches and teaches at the Faculty of Sciences of Sciences and Economics because it has no building of its own. The Fine Arts School, unfortunately, continues its training activities in the classroom and workshop, dismantling from the hall of the Ataturk Cultural and Sports Center. The Faculty of Economic and Administrative Sciences, the Faculty of Theology, and the Forest School also have problems with the service building. There is also a building and physical space problem at Health College on the sports facility and diversity of Gym Education and Sports School. There is also a problem with the Göksun Applied Sciences School, Foreign Languages University and Elbistan Applied Technology School, which has been approved by the Higher Education Board and submitted to the approval of the Council of Ministers. These problems need to be resolved immediately in the field of education. With these thoughts and feelings, I humbly salute the High Council, asking for the acceptance of our motion.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0074par0228	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the declaration of "local governments" be added after the declaration of "high education institutions" in the first article of "Mission, Authority and Responsibility of Research Infrastructures" under discussion 593. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0075par0235	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0074par0236	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0076par0237	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0077par0238	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0074par0239	I'm having it read. The co-operation of research-improvement studies with local authorities who know the best about local needs, resources and resources would be more appropriate for local needs to be identified and assessed local resources. Given these reasons, this motion aims to allow research infrastructure to co-work with local governments. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th draft of the 593rd row. We propose and supply that the terms of the article be changed from the director of substructure to the director of substructure. Alim Ikım Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Murat Başesgioğlu Ali Halaman Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the "government board, the advisory board and the directorate" declaration, titled "The Organs of Research Infrastructures," shall be replaced by the "management and advice board" of the current draft law bill 593. İdris Baluken Faysal Yellow Star Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th Amendment to Supporting Research Infrastructures 593 Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Ali Sesame Haluk Ahmet Gümu Levent Gök Umit Özşım İşük Namik Havutça Ali Sarıbaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0078par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0074par0268	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0079par0269	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0074par0270	Namık Havutça, Balıkesir MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0080par0273	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise on the 7th Amendment. I salute your High Council. My fellow lawmakers, the problems of working during the AKP administrations have become chaos in the work world, in the work world. Look, the destruction created in business reveals that after the recent mining disaster of our 301 brothers, the labor rights, the subcontractor system came on our agenda, and believe me, the subcontractor system is now a system that is almost permanent in your administrations, making our contractors a modern slave. Look, we're talking about the Soma disaster at the Soma Commission, my dear friends. Believe me, how do I make more money in the Commission? When I look at it from the point of the commission, our workers there in Soma. We've told the same family here over and over again, three sons from the same village of Bigadic. Two of the three brothers are losing their lives, and the survivors ask us: "Namak Abi, if we go to that mine, will we live?" Look, this has become a struggle for life. In the same way, people don't just die in the mines, you know, they're almost living dead with the subcontractor system in the municipalities. In the city of Susurlik, 130 workers were forced to move into the subcontractor somehow, and 76 of them were fired. I was in silence at the end of the week. For here I have promised them the suffering of our brothers, those who were expelled from work, those who were taken away from him, those who were forced to act in parks for three days a week. Look, this subcontractor system has become a surrender of working life in Turkey to the ruthless profit ambition of employers, my dear fellow lawmakers. Only in the AKP era -- I give you -- there were 387,000 subcontractors when you came to power in 2002. Today there are 1,600 million subcontractors in Turkey. Almost all of his working life, his public working life, has been handed over to subcontractors. Now, look, the number of subcontractors has increased four times in your time of power. In a work and employment system like this, those workers have no job guarantees, no uncertain rights to bring bread to their children tomorrow, no union, no organizational rights, completely placed between the employer's two lips... Look, a brother in Susurlik is fired 17 times -- whatever power comes -- 17 times, and there's a Business Act in Turkey that you know now that 76 of our workers are going to be sued according to the Work Law, they're going to be extradited, but if the employer wants it, they can't hire it even if it's legal for the courts to agree to it, so pay his severance, pay his rights, give him his rights, and let him starve again. A system like this doesn't exist anywhere in the world. Look, the International Labour Organization, the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights considers it a sacred right to work. In our laws, in our Constitution, in our Labour Law, the labor of workers, the right to work is considered sacred. Yes, in this blessed day, in Ramazan, the fasting month of the Muslim world, the municipalities are building tents for our brothers, good, good. So when are we going to get to know these people's legal, right-based working status? We're just going to feed and feed people in a month's time at a feast like this? He needs to tell the mayors that the government and the government, especially to tell him that feeding people in the tent of honour, yes, it's a solidarity, a culture, but it's a duty to know the rights of those working people that are sacred. The main task of political power here is to bring legal arrangements to correct the subcontractor slave system. I say to our people who work in that municipality, who work in coal, to create human conditions to live in, that is to make legal arrangements, and I call on the political power to make the necessary attempts to deliver the rights of our brothers and sisters from their jobs from Susurluk, from their bread, from their vaccines, from their jobs. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0081par0282	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the "government board, the advisory board and the directorate" declaration, titled "The Organs of Research Infrastructures," shall be replaced by the "management and advice board" of the current draft law bill 593. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0082par0289	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0081par0290	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0083par0291	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0084par0292	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0081par0293	I'm reading the reason: Reason: With this change, the text is intended to be clearer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th draft of the 593rd row. We propose and supply that the terms of the article be changed from the director of substructure to the director of substructure. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0085par0301	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0081par0302	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0086par0303	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0081par0304	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0087par0307	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The key institutions for technology production, scientific technological innovation, RD and innovation are universities. The ability of universities to contribute in this sense depends on the ability of our country's young and intelligent minds to retreat to our universities, making academicism and investigative work attractive. Unfortunately, however, our universities are no longer attractive to young people who are skilled in wages and material resources. Today, one of the main reasons why successful students who have graduated from universities do not avoid academic careers or continue their academic careers is that their income in different institutions and institutions is much higher than their income as academic staff. Therefore, universities have difficulty providing qualified academic staff and are in danger of losing existing personnel. This is a serious danger signal for universities to contribute to Turkey's ambitious goals with the capacity for development, innovation and project production. With today's pay structure, professors spend most of their time in additional classes, instead of raising future qualified people, doing scientific research, developing projects and patents. In a country that understands the importance of being a knowledge society, a country with ambitious goals, the alternative to correcting its economic situation should not be to attend more classes. The additional tuition fees for the second course today appear as an element that deters academics from doing research. Dear lawmakers have yet to resolve the financial, administrative, legal, academic, autonomy and social rights issues of university professors. Not academics who have to spend money on their own profession, but scientific research can't even make ends meet, and they're struggling with financial difficulties. During the 12 years of AKP, academic standards of living have been greatly reduced, and salary increases have been behind other trade groups. The university teacher is ashamed to speak loudly, to speak openly, to be ashamed, to blush, to be disappointed. According to one study, 59 per cent of academics want to move to another institution if possible, and 61 per cent do not want their children to become academics. For the past two years, academics have been given many words and good news. In the statement issued by the head of the SEC, Minister of National Education, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc and Finance Minister over the past two years, academics' salaries will be improved. It has also been announced that the Prime Minister ordered the Finance Minister to raise his academic salaries on 7 May 2013, but all of the promises that were made were in vain. As you can see, many officials have spoken out of mouth, academics have been hopeful, injustices thought to be over, but so far, academics have been ignored, ignored. As the years are forgotten and forgotten, the academics, whose salaries are melting more and more, have lost hope of improving their rights of identity. The rights of the academics must be improved. College staff's fees must be raised to a level worthy of their status and status. Academics must be raised to the level that will attract young, intelligent and talented minds to college. Successful young people who have graduated from universities must first be allowed to prefer the university. The high salary is the most important attraction to young people in the beginning of their career. I thank you and pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0088par0313	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are four motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 8th draft of the 593rd row bill. Article 1 of the article. In its joke, the addition of the office rooms and the notice to be added prior to the declaration of the civil society, and the addition of the phrase "five" (five-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven, and the change of the ibare of the nine-nine-one-one before the last sentence, however, it must be from the higher education institutions, at least three of the members before the final sentence. A) by agreeing with me, we propose and propose that the declaration be changed to the board for approval, and that the statement be changed to the board for the approval of three managers by identifying the managers who passed through it. Alim Ikım Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu The main "Law to Support Research Infrastructures" bill, number 1/894, under the title of "The Governing Board," is the 8th edition of its original "The Law to Support Research Infrastructures." Article 4. It's a joke to add the following joke and it's already 4. We offer and propose that the joke number will be changed to the joke number (5). Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Osman love Look Hakan Sergeant Mustafa Kalaycı (4) In order to pass over part of their powers if the board of forward and thematic research labs requires it, the unanimous vote can form an executive committee consisting of at least three individuals among them, including at least one of the relevant institutes of higher education. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th edition of the Law Bill for Supporting Research Infrastructures 593. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Ali Sesame Haluk Ahmet Silver Levent Gök Hopeful Gürkut Acar Ali Sarıbaş (1) "The board of directors is the decision-making body of the research infrastructure and has every administrative and financial responsibility for research infrastructure. The board consists of at least five, nine members of the institute of higher education, the institute of higher education, Turkey's Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, as well as a member of the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey and members of other NGOs. The board's structure is organised by regulation of the election of the chairman of the board, with its work and its basics. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that Article 8 of Article 8 of the current Legislative Charter 593 be changed as follows. İdris Baluken Faysal Yellow Star Pervin Buldan The Governing Body is the decision-making body of research infrastructure and has every administrative and financial responsibility for research infrastructure. The board consists of two members from the institute of higher education, two from other institutes of higher education, one from the private sector, two from relevant public institutions and two members from NGOs, and nine members in total, considering the principle of gender equality. The chairman of the board's election is organised in accordance with the procedure and basis of the board's work. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0089par0347	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0088par0348	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0090par0349	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0088par0350	I'm reading the reason: Instead of regulations on which members of the Governing Body will be a number of people, it will prevent arbitrary practices to be determined by law. It will also ensure the equality of women and men in the governing bodies as well as the consideration of gender equality in the selection of members. With this amendment, the number of members of the board of directors will be from which institutions are not left under regulations and is regulated by law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 8th Amendment to Supporting Research Infrastructure 593. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. (1) "The governing board is the decision-making body of the research infrastructure and has every administrative and financial responsibility for research infrastructure. The board consists of at least five, nine members of the institute of higher education, the institute of higher education, Turkey's Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, as well as a member of the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey and members of other NGOs. The structure of the board is organised by regulation of the election of the chairman of the board, with work procedures and fundamentals." Levent Gök (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0091par0361	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0088par0362	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0092par0363	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0088par0364	Levent Gök, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0093par0367	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 8 of Law Bill 593, which we are discussing. I salute you all with love and respect. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs are one of the more backward counties of Ankara's Mamak district, especially our narrow-income people, our workers and our people who are taking the bread out of the stone, in terms of the income level of our Ankara. Our people who live here live on their dignity and live on as one of the most beautiful neighborhoods of our Ankara, but as a town that lacks all justice, as a town that cannot afford the resources of the state, unfortunately, they continue to live on as one of the central districts of Ankara. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been torturing the people and the people of Mamak in the largest neighborhoods of Mamak district, such as Mamak, who have a total population of 100,000 people, for over a month now, as a result of the burning of a city bus, Ankara Mayor Tuzluçayir neighborhood, Sümütüpe, Şahintepe, Karattepe, Çağan, General Zeki Doğan, Sevk Veysel, Mamak districts of Mamak district. As a result of these changed bus routes, our citizens have been suffering a great deal by walking a few miles from their homes, from their workplaces, from their homes, from their homes, from their busses, from their homes, and from their homes, to their homes, and from their homes, as well as from our fellow citizens, who are more fit to walk, and from what they've been using for nearly 30 years or 40 years. The mayor of the city told the Mamakians: find the side of the bus, and I'll return your bus route. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if we're talking about justice in a legal state -- of course, the perpetrators of a public property like this need to be caught -- but of course it's up to the state's law enforcement authorities to do so, it's the work of the judiciary. Who will bear the responsibility of hundreds of thousands of people of Mamak, who had nothing to do with it, for the change of course, which had been turned into torture by burning the bus? We're giving the Home Secretary a question motion on this matter, and the Home Secretary is not answering our motion on questions. My dear friends, the right to transport is a constitutional right. You can't change that for another reason. Buses are on fire in Istanbul. For example, when a bus is burned in Kızılay Square, will you ban all buses to go there? What kind of logic is that? Look, it's the holy month of Ramazan. Our people are going home to open their fasts. They can't keep up, Mr. Secretary. They can't keep up, they can't really keep up. They can't make it to the dens, they can't get supplies to their homes. We're going through a period in a holy month where we don't even want to open your honor. We have to stop this. I gave Melih Skycel a week last week to change this route, to change it back, but he didn't, so I filed a criminal complaint against him for abuse of office today. Of course, what I'm going to do is different possibilities, different possibilities for power. I expect Mr. Minister and AKP spokesman representing the government to stand by the people of Mamak on this matter. I trust your conscience, all of you. Such persecution should not be inflicted on the people of Mamak because of the principle of the individuality of punishment. Now, the people of Mamak watching us on the television screen are waiting for us all to get the bus routes back to normal as soon as possible. It is, of course, the power to instruct on this matter. We do our duty as the opposition, but we expect you to solve it immediately in this month of Ramadan and address the transportation of the people of Mamak as soon as possible. So I wanted to draw attention to the subject by bringing this painting to your attention. In the presence of the Minister and AKP spokesman, I salute you with love and respect, with the hope that the people of Mamak will meet their negative routes immediately.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0094par0378	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The 8th edition of Research Infrastructure No. 1/894, under the title of "The Governing Board," is currently under way. Article 4. Adding to the following joke as a joke, and it is already 4. We offer and propose that the joke number will be changed to the joke number (5). 4) An executive committee consisting of at least three individuals can be formed, at least one of them from the relevant institute of higher education, in order to pass over part of their powers in order to require a board of directors in advanced and thematic research labs. Mihrimah Belma Row (Istanbul) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0095par0386	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0094par0387	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0096par0388	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0097par0389	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0094par0390	I'm reading the reason: The change is intended to be carried out directly through executive committees consisting of board members or board members of the board of directors for issues seen as important in advanced and thematic research labs. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 8th draft of the 593rd row bill. Article 1 of the article. In its joke, the addition of the office rooms and the notice to be added prior to the declaration of the civil society, and the addition of the phrase "five" (five-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven, and the change of the ibare of the nine-nine-one-one before the last sentence, however, it must be from the higher education institutions, at least three of the members before the final sentence. A) by agreeing with me, we propose and propose that the declaration be changed to the board for approval, and that the statement be changed to the board for the approval of three managers by identifying the managers who passed through it. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0098par0399	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0094par0400	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0099par0401	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0100par0402	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0094par0403	I'm reading the reason: Some problems may arise in the application are intended to prevent, expand the structure of the governing body, and ensure that the director is appointed by the board. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 9 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the declaration of civil society institutions be added after "the declaration of the private sector" in the first article of the 593th Amendment, titled "Investigation Council." İdris Baluken Faysal Yellow Star Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 9 of the 593 rows of the Bill of the Law. Article 1. We propose and propose that the declaration of civil society be added after the declaration of the relevant profession in its joke to be replaced as (e.g. Alim Işım Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 9th Amendment for Supporting Research Infrastructures 593 Article 1. We offer and propose that the following statement be added at the end of his joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Ahmet Şimit Özşım Haluk Eyidoğan Levent Gök Ali Sarıbaş "The number of members from public institutions and organisations to the Council of Counsellors, excluding the higher education institutions, cannot be more than a third." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0101par0431	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0094par0432	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0102par0433	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0094par0434	It's the Flood Köse, Corrum MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0437	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, thirty-four years ago in Çorum, in a beautiful geography of Anatolia, part of which had suffered great suffering, slaughter and torture, and death walked hand in hand. In the 40-day period of events, which began at the end of May and continued until July 4th, the leaders of the Aleki faith were burned alive in the ovens, killing 57 people, including pregnant women, disabled children. 17 people were massacred tomorrow, July 4th, just July 4th, 34 years ago, when the events peaked. I bow before your pain, before your memories. But in spite of all these sufferings, the Alevis stoned their voices, and did not stand up to avenge one day, and honeyed the pain, and turned their pain into consciousness. So, the Alevis honeyed the pain, and when they knew their pain, what happened? After thirty-four years, did they apologize for the massacre in Çorum? No. Were the real killers found and punished? That's no. Did the Alevis get equal civil rights to live their faith freely in our country during this process? They didn't get him either. So, Çorum, Maras, has there been any change in the political rhetoric and structure that has set the mood for the killings of Sivas? Of course, there was no change in him, or even worse. Now, the prime minister, who is also the presidential candidate in the rally squares -- the prime minister, who is running for President without leaving the prime minister -- has booed the people in the rally area with such strong emphasis, not because of his sect of the Republican People's Party, not because of the size, but because of the blood, the blood, the blood, the blood, the blood, the blood! The political rhetoric hasn't changed, the provocation hasn't changed at all. He booed a 14-year-old boy in a rally square.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0104par0442	This doesn't fit at all, not at this time!
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0105par0443	Something to talk about in Ramadan?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0444	So he divided the country and divided it into centuries to come. Did he tell the lie over and over again? He did. My sister was attacked. Did she say anything that didn't exist? Did she say something that didn't exist? He did. He wants to become president right now, so he wants to come to the office where the Republic of Turkey will represent the unity and unity of the nation. Does that sound good on the President? Does it look good on you? Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0106par0446	People are going to vote anyway!
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0447	Is it because the number of women killed in 2002 was 66, and the number of women killed in 2013 made it a thousand? Oh, yeah? Are we going to make this President because he made $5,105 out of $1,963 U.S. dollars in 2002, dear friends?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0107par0448	That's for people to decide, people!
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0449	We're gonna do it for him? Is it because we're the 2nd most corrupt country in the world that we're going to make President of the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0108par0451	You're not gonna do it, people are gonna do it!
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0452	Or are we going to make him president because he boasts that he's increased the number of meals he's given in his tent?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0108par0453	People decide!
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0454	Either we'd like everyone to be happy in their own home or in their friends' homes. My dear friends, look, such a candidate is not to be both secular and Muslim. A candidate who says, "Democracy is a tram." Where he's going, where he gets off. Are we going to make a candidate who says, "We're going to make a president?"
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0109par0456	What was your candidate's name?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0110par0457	Get to the roof!
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0458	So we're gonna make a candidate like this? In 2012, there were more than 120,000 prostitutes growing in the period of the conflict. Should we make the Prime Minister the President? I'm asking you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0111par0460	Why don't you talk about your candidate?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0461	Or are we going to make this Prime Minister because eight years of congressmen, the minister, made him the president of a country where the minimum wage is $800,000 in bribe watches? I'm asking you. Gentlemen, dear friends, this nation has opened too much under the stove, you've held it down, you've held it down.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0112par0463	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0113par0464	Why don't you leave us alone?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0465	Now, he's turned the stove down. Eklettin will be President of the Republic of Turkey to represent the existence and unity of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0114par0467	Are you being sincere or sincere? Do you know him? You said his name wrong!
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0115par0468	You know him?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0103par0469	Of course we know him. We know him. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0116par0472	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0117par0473	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0116par0474	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0117par0475	Mr. Minister, about our Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0116par0476	Please, Mr. Aydın... say what you have to say, which means it should go into the transcripts. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0117par0478	Mr. President, for once, of course, he couldn't talk about his candidate, but for some reason, he made some very, very bad, very unpleasant accusations about our Prime Minister. First, the nation decides to be president, and so far eight elections have been held, the same statements have been voiced on the stand each time, but we've gone to the nation's arbitration.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0118par0480	They don't understand.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0117par0481	Each time, the people gave our Prime Minister the crown. In this presidential election, the head of Turkey, as head of state, hopefully this nation will elect this Prime Minister, our Prime Minister, as President of the nation's hearts.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0119par0483	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0120par0484	All right, let's see if he can get out of here before the government takes advantage of him.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0119par0486	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 9 of the 593 rows of the Bill of the Law. Article 1. We propose and propose that the declaration of civil society be added after the declaration of the relevant profession in its joke to be replaced as (e.g. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0121par0492	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0119par0493	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0122par0494	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0119par0495	Mr. Halaçoglu, I'm reading the motive. The Council's structure was intended to expand and increase the number of members. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the declaration of civil society institutions be added after "the declaration of the private sector" in the first article of the 593th Amendment, titled "Investigation Council." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0123par0504	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0119par0505	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0124par0506	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0119par0507	Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0125par0509	I've been promised the motion, and I salute you all. There's something I'd like to get your attention about, and I've been promised to share it with you. Now, this is a drama that happened at Mardin Metropolitan Municipality... and it's not really a drama, so I'm going to talk about a freak. Mardin Metropolitan Municipality, as you know, is one of the largest municipalities in the city with the last Metropolitan Law. However, in many parts of Turkey, our cities have moved to greater urban status, and Mardin was one of them. In other areas of the Metropolitan municipality status, the city municipalities have been entrusted with a responsibility, but resources have been transferred in a manner that corresponds to responsibility. However, in Mardin Metropolitan City, a different practice was taken instead. For example, Mardin Metropolitan Municipality is currently required to deliver services to around 1,000 villages, with services to all its districts. The exact opposite of the application of the transfer of assets from other cities to the capital city municipality was carried out at Mardin Metropolitan Municipality. The assets that should be handed over to Mardin Metropolitan Municipality have been transferred to the Treasury, but all debts, responsibilities have been transferred to Mardin Metropolitan Municipality. For example, 1,618 plots were supposed to be transferred to the Metropolitan Municipality, and only one of them was transferred to Mardin Metropolitan Municipality, which is a cemetery. The rest of the land has been transferred to the Treasury. The state's private administrations, you know, have been transferred to city halls, along with their staff, along with their assets. The Mardin County Special Administration building has been transferred to the Treasury, handed over to YİKOB (YIKOB) and assigned to the use of YİKOB (YIKOB). Even the building wasn't given to City Hall. I'm going to tell you about a different practice that he paid his debt to: there is an Ataturk Cultural Center in Mardin. It used to be the City Hall's Cultural Center. He owes about 20 million debts, so the debt of the Ataturk Cultural Center has been transferred to Mardin Metropolitan Municipality, and you have been told to pay the debt. But the Cultural Centre itself has not been transferred to the municipality. For example, I'm going to talk about another investment in which he paid his debt: there's Mova Park in Mardin. The park's debt has been transferred to City Hall, the park itself has not been transferred to City Hall.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0126par0515	Which municipality was it transferred to?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0125par0516	Actually, I'd rather not mention it to a city that you'd hoped would win.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0126par0517	It's been transferred back to the city.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0125par0518	Five plots around Mardin Airport, a separate plot of land, high value, land owned by the municipality, have been transferred to the Treasury. All of this happened before the March 30th elections, before the March 30th elections. 61 vehicles owned by the province's private administration were given to the governorship, transferred to other institutions, but all debts of the province's private administration were given to the municipality. There was no City Hall service building. The service building used by Mardin Metropolitan Municipality was transferred to Artuklu Municipality before the elections. The $115m debt from Artuklu Municipality has been transferred to the capital city municipality. In total, some 580 million debts were raised by Mardin Metropolitan Municipality, but all its resources were taken from it. Now, if this practice fits your conscience, I'm referring it to your conscience. Mr. Prime Minister, this monstrosity created by the signature of the concerned ministers must be eliminated immediately, to the municipality... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the property that needs to be secured must be transferred to the city immediately. I wanted to bring this to your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0127par0523	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. : The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 10 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the statement of the Executive Director be changed as the third joke in the 10th article, entitled Research Infrastructure Director of Law Bill 593, which is currently in session. İdris Baluken Faysal Yellow Star Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Tenth of the current bill of law. Article 1 of the article. In his joke, we propose and propose that the minimum degree of grad school education be changed to less than a Ph.D. degree, and that it be appointed to be appointed to the Council from among the three candidates elected. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th Amendment to Supporting Research Infrastructure 593. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Ahmet Şimit Özşım Ramadan Kerim Özkan Gürkut Acar Ali Sarıbaş 1) "The manager is elected from among those with at least seven years of experience in one of the sciences concerned with research infrastructure, with the decision the board of directors will make with a majority of votes; in three years of contracts 22/5/2003, and is employed according to Article 4857." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0128par0549	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0127par0550	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0129par0551	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0127par0552	Umit Özışmiş who wants to speak on the motion, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozgimi.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0130par0555	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you again. Before I've heard my speech, the Commission and one of the government disagree, and one of them can't. Every time I come in, I tell you, I don't know the difference between the two, who joins why and who can't. So I'm going to try to explain to you that some of the things that are wrong with the bill here, in order to make a note of history. Because, as I explained earlier, there were problems with some issues that the Commission disagreed with and the government disagreed with. There's gonna be trouble here, too. Just now, again, when there's a court order that's been rejected, things are going to come out of the records here. Because, as such plans are being drawn up, the copying process is being applied, as we are now meeting on the subcommittee -- when it comes to one place -- is taken from another institution -- is being added to the new material without any discussion of whether it's right or wrong. And when we said it was wrong, we took it from the Sugar Law, we took it from the BDK, we put it on there. Now, there are materials like this one with a copy sticker. We've actually seen one of these in development agencies before, and now they've copied it from there to here. The 14th article (3) of the 14th article states that people from public institutions and institutions, who are employed here, after working in research infrastructure, are employed in this way, so that people from the public institution, when they finish their work in the research infrastructure, continue according to the conditions of their studies, at the latest, within three months of their application. Now, there have been problems with development agencies, Mr. Secretary knows, and I've filed a question motion, and I've asked verbally. When two personnel leave, they receive severance from the development agency because they do not declare they will return to the public at that moment -- although the law says they will not be given severance -- and then the law returns to its position in the public. A year later, when I discovered it, the legal way of returning the severance benefits was taken; the minister said one was taken; he said one would be taken by answering my question request, and one would be taken. Now, look, one of the research infrastructures here has come from the public and will return to the public and has the right to apply within six months. However, according to the Supreme Court's established decisions, these people must be paid severance pay within a month as they leave. You paid the severance, you did, and then three months later, four months later, he went back to his post and petitioned his institution. You're going to try to get your legal compensation for these people back. So, when we come to Article 14 from the beginning, we also have a motion that, if you agree... when we leave the research infrastructure when the public has to rehire him, he'll be with me when I leave and I'll go back to my old institution. There is something important in Article 9; there were five of the Council of Counsellors, and we suggested that they be raised to 20 people. Every once in a while, he's been accepted, up to 20 people, counseling board. But there will be rules and procedures for working there. What we really want to say there is, let's say that, once again, when we're preparing a regulation for the 20-person advisory board, let's not have academics, teachers from the university, people from within the practice. When he's doing some research somewhere, he goes to TÜBITAK, he goes to COSGEB, he goes to SANTES, and there are people who face difficulties, and they're in that structure. And while the Minister is here, I'd like to remind you of something. You've brought a performance system in development agencies, complaints from all sides of Turkey. According to the criteria set by that development agency at the end of the month, according to the performance criteria -- in the power of the general secretary there -- the general secretary can pay an additional salary of 250, 500, I don't know how many lire. It's not being used right, it's being used wrong everywhere. At the end of the month, people close to the secretary general there receive performance-based bonuses based on the degree of proximity, rather than the obvious criteria. I feel that these should be dealt with seriously, and I'm paying respects again.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0131par0563	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Tenth of the current bill of law. Article 1 of the article. In his joke, we propose and propose that the minimum degree of grad school education be changed to less than a Ph.D. degree, and that it be appointed to be appointed to the Council from among the three candidates elected. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0132par0570	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0131par0571	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0133par0572	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0134par0573	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0131par0574	I'm reading the reason: It's not enough that the director of research infrastructure has a bachelor's degree. Given the director's impact and importance on the vision of research infrastructure and the determination and monitoring of to-do, it is thought that it would be more beneficial for the infrastructure director to be elected from people with at least a PhD level of academic competence. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the statement of the Executive Director be changed as the third joke in the 10th article, entitled Research Infrastructure Director of Law Bill 593, which is currently in session. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0135par0583	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0131par0584	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0136par0585	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0131par0586	I'm reading the reason: This motion aims to use the expression of the administrative director instead of the manager. Because the director must be solely responsible for the management of administrative affairs, leaving relevant scientific and academic issues to the chairman of the board of directors (the head of research infrastructure). I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 5th joke of the 5th article of the proposed law proposal, 593, shall be added and proposed after the release of the declaration of "Professions within the scope of this clause" to the "science and technology" to the association or foundations that operate and work in public interest. İdris Baluken Faysal Sarıyıldız Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11th of the Common Legislature. We propose and propose the release of the article's article 5 with the article's article's article entitled "the transfer of the right to operate" in the article's title. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0137par0605	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0131par0606	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0138par0607	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0131par0608	I'm reading the reason: Unconcerned with Court control and tender legislation, opening the way for universities to start a company or to become a partner in the company and leaving details to regulations and protocols leave a wide area of action and abuse. Therefore, the right of research infrastructures to operate is considered difficult to transfer to the private sector, science and technology-based associations or foundations that work in public interest. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 5th joke of the 5th article of the proposed law proposal, 593, shall be added and proposed after the release of the declaration of "Professions within the scope of this clause" to the "science and technology" to the association or foundations that operate and work in public interest. Fair Zozani (True) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0139par0617	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0131par0618	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0140par0619	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0131par0620	I'm reading the reason: In our country, there are already associations or foundations that operate in the field of science and technology to operate research infrastructures and work for the public. Such a change in the proposal of the law does not really pay off. In fact, there is also a need to open the door to abuse and favourability of the non-responsive arrangement. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved. The amendment to Article 6 aims to make the draft text more clear. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Now, let's start with the second section's views. The second chapter covers 12 to 21, including temporary matter 1. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0141par0631	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have been promised the views of the National Movement Party on the second part of the proposed draft, number 593. I hereby salute the grand jury. I want to thank our Commissioner, at least he's informed us about this, we've been briefed, we've been briefed as far as we can see. In fact, the concept of the bill is to support research infrastructure and its name is to support research infrastructure. The main goal of R&D and innovation policies is that technology and innovation can be transformed into benefits by increasing private sector-based activities. Thanks to you, the private sector, thanks to the AKP, can quickly transform everything into good because of the government. There's no need for RD, there's a December 17th-25th issue, and it's actually very productive for the private sector. You're going to create an ecosystem based on innovation, commercialize research results, and contribute to high competitiveness on a global scale in technology-enhancing products to be branded and branded. We saw how the innovation-based ecosystem was created on December 17th and 25th, and we saw how things were commercialized. It's a brand in our country that you run on this. Mr. Prime Minister is really uncomfortable with this, Mr. Secretary, and we understand that from their speech. The ones you've been cooperating with have framed you, but you still claim to have cooperated with the opposition, and that's not going to happen. I asked you at the time, during the budget talks, during the interviews, only we didn't get beat up. You said that the evidence was obtained outside the law. We said okay. Out of curiosity, Mr. Prime Minister, we said, "Is this available or not?" You came at us almost there. We're colleagues, you and I. That's where I thank my colleagues, and they've informed us. RD is a risky investment, recycling in the long run, and if that happens, the cost is too high for the private sector. The private sector is taking a practical route, and there are themes among them, and they're doing it in a different way, as they did on December 17th and 25th, without needing RD. Now, you have a non-financed industrial strategy, how is he going to do without RD, what's he going to do? The contributions you've made since you've been here, the use of high technology in production, the use of more... Is there any indication that high-tech production has increased dramatically? In your exports, high-tech products -- they've been told here -- are at 3 percent, 13 to 14 percent of what you import. There's nothing to brag about, there's nothing to call good to the country, and you can't do it anyway. Now, I don't know how much this can be associated with RD. For RD, you're going to employ scientists, engineers, develop science and technology in your field, get new information, or you're going to get new product, new information with the current. Now, what are you going to do about RD? Basic research, practical research, experimental development. If you look at the process, we need new information, documentation and experimentation, observation. We need a more specific practice on this. Beyond that, new materials, products and tools need to be designed to produce new processes, systems, services, or to develop existing ones. You're going to provide a charity event. There's a lot of discussion about how much activity you've provided in aid. You're telling us that the numbers are going up, the employment, etcetera, but you can't make sense of the output from there to contribute to the country's economy. Otherwise, the rest is well-written, bureaucratic. And one thing I'm curious about is the TUBITAK that has to deal with this here. If you look at the situation in which TÜBITAK had to deal with it, you do not work in science, you do not work in technique. What are you working on? The newly appointed Minister of Industry said about TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK), and he feels that the stock is not true. You remember those days, those statements. I mean, your sense. If I can find it over there, what's it say again? What he said about it, how you feel, how you listen, what that job isn't? What's he doing that he's not real? He's saying it. A Minister of Industry and Technology such as this is a celebration of homes. Now, let's move on. What's wrong with help, no doubt? There are risks. We just said TUBITAK, you say parallel, you change it, you don't believe it. Now I've looked at this bill. This bill was written to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 17/3/2014 with the Prime Minister's signature. What is being done by bureaucracy, perhaps a few months earlier, by a bill that is now written like this? He's getting ready. I'd be very upset if you tried to smear these friends because of a negative conclusion from here tomorrow. Is this well studied by you? Which officers watched it? Now, when you look at it, Mr. Secretary, you need to make it very clear and clear. If this is something that's supposed to happen, it's definitely being discussed here, but when you get a negative result, it's not really the kind of thing you've been acting together for years, giving them what they want. And I say to the opposition, in cooperation with them, at least from my own political party -- to say that they were acting with them -- I want to say that their emotions were ruined. You can't say that. It covers strategy in 2010-2014. He doesn't have a long-term vision of industrial strategy. How are you going to improve, what are you going to do? If I'm not mistaken yesterday, I was watching it on TV, and you mentioned $800 billion in revenues. It's your pride, it's the pride of the country, isn't it? $800 billion is a national income. It's tripled, isn't it? Dollars per person to your account? The Finance Minister said in his budget speech here -- not at all, with the integrity of science -- that this increased 1.4 times in real prices on the dollar. There are other ways of measuring this, I can tell you that, but you're not telling the truth, Mr. Secretary. The national income went up 4.3 in the first quarter, but what percentage of dollars went up? Ask the friends you're with, the ones you're with. There are friends I know very well. It's down seven percent in real dollars. Why don't you tell me from this podium? It's increased by 3 times. You say that in dollars. There's a comparison to that. Love the Minister of Finance, don't love him, at least he put it here in his book. What? Buying power parity, dollars, real prices. At least I'd like to be told that in truth. Now, from time to time, Mr. Numan Survivor is saying something about your economic policy. Please read them and discuss them with Mr. Numan. Mr. Numan still thinks he's at his old party. So, now that you've got government officers behind you, you're saying something, but watch how people talk about what they don't, what they say about your party's economic policy. Now, even if you count $10,500 since 2008, what are you doing? And if you're going to ask the president of the Central Bank, are you going to tell him something else? If you're going to buy it, take him with a law, and he'll be relieved of duty. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You can't play with people's dignity like that! If you don't want to -- you're changing everything -- change it, make the necessary arrangements. And in this case, it's really supported, but keep an account of it. You're not holding him. And the reason this has come up so far is because you're not doing it well. I pay my respects to the High Council. Congratulations on the Ramadan of all your friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0142par0651	Thank you. Kemal Millendereli, Edirne MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on behalf of the department. Here you go, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0143par0655	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to support Research Infrastructure 593 on the second chapter of the Dair Law Bill. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the way the world should not be ignored at its level of development: In the new order, not only does the big fish swallow the small fish, but the fast fish swallow the slow one. In order for countries to take their place in this race in the global order where technology is moving at an extraordinary speed, it is inevitable that they will move forward with a fast, dynamic, target-oriented, working, producing, and combining their powers. So, in this regard, where are we on the scale of the world, what are we doing, what are we aiming at, what should we really do? With this law, we want to improve our research and development infrastructure. That's very positive, but we need to underline certain requirements. RD is really an elite business. The essentials to developing the RD structure are: first, if innovation, innovation, creativity, initiative, strategic planning, incentives and education are not considered, we will not be able to achieve success. Dear lawmakers, the most important piece of the RD race is trained, equipped generations. We have a young and dynamic population. We have the ability to assess this population. We need to make way for this young population in open areas, developing new and export-based technologies. However, valuable lawmakers, if we look at the 2013 OECD indicators and look at this potential infrastructure that will form R&D centers, we are unfortunately ranked 34th among 38 countries in the 15-year-old group in science, reading and mathematics. At the doctorate level -- which is the most important resource for RD centers -- we're in the 35th place among 39 countries between graduations, I'm afraid. Again, we only have four universities among the top 500 universities in the world. But when we're proportional to our GDP, compared to other countries' universities, our eight universities are supposed to be in the first 500, but we only have 184 universities, but only four universities can get into the first 500. And I want to underline a very important lack here. I'm afraid we're in the 36th place between 1.1, and OECD countries, as we've divided the GDP into higher education. Again, from the point of view of the number of researchers to form R&D centers, there are 1 million per person, 7,700 per person in Finland, 6,000 in Singapore, 5,000 in South Korea, and only 884 in us. Again, let's get into the top 10 economies that we've been working on, that we've been working on, that we've been looking forward to, that we've all wanted, that we're going to get into the top 10 economies in 2023. When I say, Spain has split 20 billion dollars from the next 16 economies to at least RD. So to achieve these goals, we need to make greater contributions. Here, I would like to highlight with an understanding that during these law talks, R&D, South Korea, for example, comes to this point by supporting export-based RD products, and Mr. Secretary, South Korea has closed the RD centers that are not producing on a very important issue. I mean, there's no such thing as the law, but we have to care about these things. Again, valuable lawmakers are able to carry out an innovation-oriented development with three key issues: talent, technology and tolerance. The importance of creativity is obvious, but for its formation, it also requires an open social, cultural and geographical environment, an ecosystem. The power generated by the use of talent and technology moves towards areas where social tolerance is high, and it even develops trends in the world. Open regimes can make progress in new sectors with innovation and creativity. To build a climate where creative individuals can create economic value, it is necessary not only to look economically and technically but also to ignore the fields of education, art, political culture. It is not possible to expect entrepreneurial, creativity and innovation in an environment where political will intervenes in the judiciary, where entrepreneurs are punished for political purposes, taxes such as taxes, names of people with different opinions, private lives are drawn, some of the media has a monopoly on them. In order to compete with developed countries in product quality and new products, our country must create new values, creating new values, and creating a private sector that has the ability to sell out what it produces by focusing on research and development. However, the private sector's source for RD has been reported to have increased to 42 per cent, but it is not part of the law that includes the private sector in planning RD. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid we still haven't been able to dry a structure to plan which technologies to develop in what field. Co-operation between ministries has not been sufficiently structured, even with this law. For example, the defence industry and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Energy, have not been part of the boards in Turkey. The education system is the most important thing to feed technology infrastructure. We need to see together that an Imam-responsive educational system does not lead us to the conclusion of creating new technologies and reaching goals with this law in creativity, dear friends. It's impossible to understand the logic of turning normal high schools into imam-hating high schools. This understanding of education will not allow us to obtain efficiency from the law to support research infrastructure. As a result, the administration must change the philosophy of governance. Creativity and initiative must be supported by freedom of thought and tolerance. It will not be possible to benefit from such laws unless that mentality changes. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit04spe0144par0670	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0144par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with Bill 593 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0145par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group over the second chapter. I salute you all. As for this bill, we will continue to express what is missing or what needs to be, because it is not a bill that we fundamentally oppose; in fact, it is a bill that we call a little bit more mature, a little bit better design, and we see that there are some flaws in it, along with its delay. Now, in this part of my speech or this speech, I'm going to express our reservations about whether or not this system, the RD system, will succeed. There's a certain process in the world of growing brain power. In fact, we don't need to reinvent the world in this regard. The education system in Turkey does not give us enough data. We're saying that we're very weak at the point where we're taking advantage of the growing brain power and producing it. For many years, Turkey has been in a position of brain draining country. We've been saying that people who have grown up, have grown up, specialize in these things, often have to go outside, where they can't find employment opportunities or opportunities to develop themselves. Today we face a similar situation. If you're going to employ these people here, you're going to have to do infrastructure work that will enable their living conditions, allow their scientific development. By putting tools in the labs, go and investigate here. That's not what you're going to say. If we want the scientist to stay in the country, to open the way for scientific development, technological development in the country, and that's what we want, then we need infrastructure to keep them here. If you tell a research expert to come and practice science in Turkey, giving 2,000 liras to an academic, it is incompatible with reality. We say we need legal, technical arrangements to keep these people here. Secondly, if you'll notice, in every profession, after the university phase, the transition exams began to take place in Turkey. Finally, for example, right now, after graduation, we started discussing the transition of lawyers to the practice of law enforcement, which is being brought to the board. Little by little, this will be applied to engineering, and it will begin to apply in all professions. So, what does it mean if people finish their studies, get their diplomas, and you're taking a professional qualifications test again? It means that you doubt all the training you've given us up to that point. You're right, there's also doubt, because we don't have the brain power that's grown in our existing education curriculum, or we can get it with scarce possibilities, we can get a limited number of them. What's already happened has always had to go out in the stages to this day. For example, when a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, who signed an invention in the United States, appears, the next day, in many newspapers in Turkey, it is either a headline or a headline. That's the longing for that. We express that longing. Well, can't this person produce this in Turkey? Can't we take advantage of that in Turkey? We can't use it because we can't offer it here. Our educational system doesn't respond here. We can't open the way for our people here, the growing brain power in the production stages is almost slowly coming to a melting point. We've become understaffed in many sectors. What percentage of people who work in Turkish inter-industrial work there through a professional formation? Evaluate an industrial site in any province, people who work there, for example, in textiles; how many of them do this work by taking the training, where they're employed? It's limited because our educational system is not designed to grow intermediaries in any way in Turkey. The universities of applied sciences have been assessed by making political material for this matter. Thus, vocational upper secondary schools, universities of applied sciences, which were not properly discussed. The education system isn't set up at the point where it's growing brain power. There are problems here. Now, in an atmosphere like this, in an environment like this, we're discussing a bill for the development of research infrastructure. You can name it very well, it may appeal to you, it may appeal to each of us -- and we discussed it in the process of the commission, we talked about it -- it's tempting, yes. Everyone's getting close to this job in a process like this, and everyone's getting close to it with this kind of motive; no one's been in an assessment of this by putting a political difference, but at the point of speaking what needs to be, we can't say that we see enough effort at the point where we're building the infrastructure. So if you really want to achieve success here, you need to know that you can't raise a scientist like you can grow tomatoes. If you put the seed in the ground and think it sprouted 15 days later, that's not possible. We're talking years of sari labor. There'll be work at this point. And you're going to provide him with infrastructure so that you can achieve this advanced brain power. There's nothing, there's no infrastructure, there's not enough funding, but here's what we're gonna do with the sign labs. Nothing will happen except the sign labs. In order to get beyond this mechanism, beyond the sign, you have to strengthen the infrastructure to put chemistry next to physics. You need to strengthen his cerebral infrastructure. And there's only one way to do that: to review the education formation. If we can do that, we can succeed, and if we can do that, we can say that we can achieve goals in this bill. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0146par0017	Thank you. Mustafa Kalaycı has asked for a personal word on the second chapter. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0147par0021	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Turkey is behind its industrialisation goals. The industrial sector is an area where fewer people work for other sectors, and a higher national income and added value are revealed, but unfortunately in Turkey, things don't go that way. In our country, our industry's share in national income is diminishing. The GDP share of the manufacturing industry was 19.2 per cent in 2002, while it declined by 15.3 per cent in 2013. Without an industrialised country, Turkey's decline is not a healthy development for our industry, economy and country. The Istanbul Industrial Chamber has announced the results of Turkey's 500 Great Industrial Association's 2013 Research. In this study, it is clear that industrial production is becoming increasingly heavy within the economy. The rise of the 500 largest industrial corporations in 2004, in 2004, in 2010, 66, in 2012, 63, while in 2013 it was recorded as the most negative number of the last decade. In 2012, the financing costs paid by ISO 500 companies amounted to 34 per cent of the operating profits, while in 2013 the rate increased to 53 per cent. This shows that companies pay back more than half the profits they make as financing expenses. The profitability of 500 major industrial companies has been determined by this study, which reduces exports. Because of profitability and decline in self-sources, companies have turned to use more foreign resources to provide financing. The ISO survey found that the rate of debt and equity of companies has reached the top of the last decade in 2013. According to this, the debt and self-source rate increased by 20.4 points in 2013 to 132.4 per cent, and the level in developed countries is 70 per cent. Dear MPs, no matter what the government and its allies say, let him draw as many pink pictures as he wants, there are serious problems in the economy. Our national industry, our manufacturer, is in trouble. Our entrepreneurs, our industrialist, new investments aside, have become unable to maintain their current investments. The competitive force is becoming increasingly exhausted. Many industrialists, businessmen and tradesmen have fallen into debt. There are no collections available on the market. The transactions are increasing, bankruptcys are under way. In a nutshell, Turkey's economy has lost its grip. The AKP's mentality insists on economic policies that lead millions of our people to hunger, poverty, unemployment. It is impossible for an economic system that turns its back on production, embraces imports, which is extremely financed, to produce overpowering, work and hope. There is a need for an economic breakthrough that can develop technology, reward innovation, entrepreneurial initiative, grasp the shovel and produce information to establish economic domain. It's a futile struggle to bring permanent dynamism and stability to the economy of Turkey in a review of the memorisation, by holding on to the usual suggestions and by the mercy of others. Clearly, the AKP government does not have a production perspective on economic policy. Turkey has been transformed into a country that consumes without producing, spends without winning. For Turkey's economy to be flattened, we need new plans and programmes focused on production, employment and exports that will bring the country out of the gutter of money, interest and debt, which will save our country from becoming an import paradise. Unfortunately, however, the AKP government does not have the strength or determination to plan or implement such a plan. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0031	Thank you. Erdal Aksunger, İzmir MP... Yes, the talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13th of the Common Legislature. Article (4). We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the article text. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0149par0044	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0045	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0150par0046	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0151par0047	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0048	I'm reading the reason: This joke has to come out, since it's supposed to be an extension of the business rights joke. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 14 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 14th of the Common Legislature. Article (8) of the article "As part of this clause" states" "This article has a 4. As part of his joke," we propose and propose that it be changed. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0152par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0062	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0153par0063	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0064	I'm reading the reason: Among those employed with a labour contract and those who work as employees and receive their wages from their institutions, there is a distinction between the obligation of mandatory service. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 15th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The draft "The Law for Supporting Research Infrastructures" in 593 rows, under the title "Achievement, Co-ordination, Watch and Evaluation." Article 2. And 5. To change the jokes in the following way, 8. The joke is to add the following joke, and it's already 8. We offer and propose that the joke number (9) be changed to the joke number (9). Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Hakan Davoglu Osman love Bak Recep Special (2) Research infrastructures that will be subject to competency assessment are determined by the Ministry and evaluated by the Secretariat. (5) The Council decides to qualify for five years of research infrastructure. It is observed and evaluated for continuing the competencies of qualified research infrastructure. The board may give time to improve research infrastructure if there is a setback in its implementation of research infrastructure, cancel the capacity of infrastructure, or change its class, according to the result of this violation of the Law provisions or monitoring assessment. (8) Any information and document requested by the Ministry and Secretariat in the monitoring and evaluation process is required during the period requested by the relevant institutions and organisations. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0154par0080	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0081	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0155par0082	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0156par0083	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0084	I'm reading the reason: The aim is to clarify the process of change and competence, coordination, monitoring and evaluation. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 17th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to Chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft law on Supporting Research Infrastructures 593 Article 4. We offer and offer to add at least 20 per cent of the statement to come after the statement of the income in the joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Ahmet Şimit Özşım Ramadan Kerim Özkan Haluk Eyidoğan Gürkut Acar Ali Sarıbaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0157par0100	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0101	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0158par0102	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0159par0103	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0104	I'm reading the reason: Reason: In order to encourage new inventions, the idea is intended to be given a lower limit from right to the person who makes the invention. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 19th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 19th annual Bill of Law on Supporting Research Infrastructures 593. Article 1. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the High Education Agency, the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, and the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey. Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Ahmet Süleyman Ramazan Kerim Özkan Haluk Eyidoğan Umit Özşım Ali Sarıbaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0160par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0118	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0161par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0148par0120	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to include the views of education and the business world involved in the regulation. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. : Matter accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, the negotiations of the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, the Bill of the Law on Supporting Research Infrastructures is open to vote: Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Bayram Özçik So the bill is accepted and legalized. Minister of Development Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz will give a thank-you speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0162par0142	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I stand before you for a brief thank-you speech. First, I'd like to thank all of our friends who have contributed with their opinion, their criticism of our design and our plan and budget commission. And I'd like to thank all the party groups on our General Assembly. In an extremely good debate, in the name of our country's future, we have all agreed to a vital law, a reform bill, which is very important for our vision of 2023 and our Ten Years of Development. I wish good luck to our country, to our nation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the bureaucratic friends, academics who have worked on this bill, and all the interested parties who have given their opinion in various stages. He wishes you well again, and I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2014-07-03sit05spe0163par0148	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Ministry of Health and Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 4th ranking position of the Turkish Republic's Ministry of Health and Medical Education between Iran and the Ministry of Health and Medical Sciences. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran between Turkey and Iran and the Government of Iran in Turkey-Iran. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since it has been decided that there will be no commission after this, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (July 8th 2014) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
