tbmm-2014-09-06sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 136-nation Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system will be able to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency within three minutes of duty. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings, we're going on the agenda. Now, the Council of Ministers established by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, which is part of the agenda on the Special Agenda, will be voted on under Articles 124 of the Constitution and Internal Charter. The vote of confidence is in accordance with Article 124 of the Civil Code. The General Assembly shall decide the form of open voting according to Article 139 of the Civil Code. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, the open vote will be carried out by electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I present the outcome of the vote of confidence. A vote of confidence on the 62nd government, founded by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, is open: [[x]] [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] According to this conclusion, the Council of Ministers established by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu has been given a vote of confidence in the Council of Ministers. I wish them all the best and the best for our nation and our country. The Prime Minister has a request to say thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-09-06sit01spe0002par0026	Mr. President, on behalf of my fellow ministers, I'd like to thank you for the kindness and confidence you've shown to the government of the 62nd Republic of Turkey. I also owe you a debt of gratitude to my fellow ministers, bureaucrats, Parliamentary employees and all the MPs who contributed to the government's programme of the 62nd Republic of Turkey. History is moving at an extraordinary speed. Big countries, big thinking countries, are obliged to understand the dynamic of this speed, to develop national policies according to that dynamic. Basically, the philosophy of our 62nd government, its approach, is to read this historical stream correctly, to combine dynamics from our own history with a vision of the future in the coming period, especially in the 100th year of our republic, to make our country a global power. Our basic basis here is to deepen political democratisation, to ensure a state-state union, to increase our country's economic capacity by co-executing sustainable human development in the economic field, and to base our country's reputation on a new understanding of security and active foreign policy with a new sense of security, which is based on our national capacity in the strategic field. In that way, we pledge to work day and night with the support we receive from you in front of our beloved Assembly and our nation. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) No power will be enough to break this government's resolve, but we will continue to work with even greater determination. In this framework, I would like to express on this occasion all the parties within our great Parliament, both us and our ruling opposition parties, actively participating in this process, all the positive contributions, criticism from our opposition parties, together with them, our determination to build Turkey's future together. The future of our country is the common future of all of us, the common destiny. No matter what citizens we have in this matter of fate, we consider their contribution as a debt, regardless of political identity, ethnic or religious background, or the way they view any community they feel about belonging to. Next semester, hopefully, under the roof of this great House, we'll sign a period of common will, common conscience, common mind, and understanding together. I thank you on behalf of my fellow and fellow members of the Council of Ministers for the kindness and confidence you have shown me again, and I wish this work to be good for our country and for humanity. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-09-06sit01spe0003par0035	[[AC PARTY and the Council of Ministers applaud standing by]] Yeah, I'm just saying good luck again. Members of parliament have completed procedures regarding the extraordinary meeting. However, on Monday (September 8, 2014) it is 14 p.m. on Monday (September 8, 2014) to discuss Bills 639, 642, 643 and 628 at the request of a large number of members. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
