tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 126th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Adana MP Muharrem Varlı, who wants to talk about Adana's problems. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I've asked for an off-the-book statement about Adana's problems. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, today is the last day of his work before the holidays. In Ramadan, I wish you to reach Ramadan Day, and to bring peace and peace to the Islamic world. I hereby congratulate you all on the Festival of Ramadan, and on the feast of our precious nation, who watches us at the head of television. My dear friends, Adana, who used to be a subject of Turkish films, who are a city where everyone is looking for work, where they find work, unfortunately, is now always first in unemployment. In Adana, there is a rather different migration. In Adana, the work of the righteous ones is settled in Istanbul, Izwar, Burma, but the people of the lower levels are always coming to Adana, so there was a hard unemployment in Adana. Many of the owners of the factory closed their factories, and went to Istanbul, and to Marseilles. Therefore, the government must find a solution to pave the way for investments in Adana, to open the way for new factories in Adana. Because, Adana is a very important city, a very important province. The government must make the people of Adana feel that they are also cared for. Regarding the energy reserve, the government has always advertised that "Adana Ceyhan will be Turkey's Rotterdam." Sir, there will be a lot of energy investments in this area, so there will be Turkey's Rotterdam, 10,000 people, 20,000 people will get jobs. They've done a commercial like that, but so far, unfortunately, not even a nail has been nailed in the energy fellowship. So investments here need to be encouraged by the government, and investors need to be routed to that area as soon as possible. So we need to start the investments there as soon as possible to ensure that our people find work and work. These are the major problems of Adana. Again, even though the ovarian road was auctioned out in 1999 and the money was split, the road between the ovaries and Ceyhan still couldn't be finished. The contractor quits because there's no money. One day another contractor comes in. Adana-Ceyhan-Eoval is a very busy road in three months, especially between June and October. This road needs to be finished as soon as possible. The government needs to find a solution to this as soon as possible. Again, the sunflower and wheat harvest are finished. Because of the agricultural drought and the frosting incident, sunflowers and wheat producers were severely victimised. In order to address their victims, the county's agricultural directorate, the ideas of agricultural chambers, needs to be investigated immediately, and this should prevent our people from being victimised because sunflowers are growing, growing and producing in the spring. Of course it's something from the Lord God, of course it's not your government's fault, but the government has to make an effort to prevent that sacrifice. Here's what you'll say: we've postponed the loans at Zaraat Bank. But you've postponed the interest, you'll have to postpone it without interest. Again, agricultural loan-related debt needs to be structured and without interest. And we expect you to compensate our farmers for that. Again, the corn harvest will begin at the end of next month. Last year, I slit my throat here, the corn harvest starts, cut off the corn imports from the outside. I said, "You didn't cut it, you kept importing corn." During the time of the corn harvest, 2 million tonnes of corn entered Turkey, and the corn producer was left with corn, and they had to sell corn under the price of the previous year. So they did damage. This year's wheat repulsion is very low. Thus, the need for corn will grow, and the need for corn will increase for glucose factories. Which means we have to prevent and prevent imports from being imported from the outside. Large companies are currently negotiating with farms in Romania that require 40,000 acres and 50,000 acres of farms. I'm warning the government to find a way out of this as soon as possible, keep the corn from coming out so our farmer can make money. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you. The second unscheduled statement belongs to Zonguldak MP Özcan Uupınar, who asked about the 91st anniversary of the Amele Union. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise due to the 91st anniversary of the Amole Union Saving and Helping Ark. I salute the High Council. First of all, I wish that the blood spilled in Gaza would end, and I condemn this attack with hatred. May this massacre end in the grace of the blessed days. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have given special importance to the republic's founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk Zonguldak Basin, as wars continue in many parts of the country at the beginning of the republic. In this period, foreign businesses in the basin produce coal. The January operators have had extensive management powers and have used them to exploit the workers as much as possible. Workers from villages near January were employed for very low wages, even for daily bread, with no social rights. Many workers were injured, crippled, or killed by business accidents, only because of manpower management. Workers who were injured or crippled in any business accident return to their villages without any claim, and those who died in the furnaces would be left in the middle if there were no relatives. The unrest in the substructure basin was great, and this troubled period was disturbing the new Republic of Turkey. In the first months of the government's cycle, following the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, qualifiers took action to assemble and collect the Zonguldak Coal Basin, considering its strategic importance. The sale of coal on this circuit has been completely released. The troops of the workers who work in the furnaces have been delayed. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey also saw the need for local and economic measures to be taken in various parts of the country as it waged wars to save the government from enemies. As a matter of fact, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, head of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, was brought to parliament on the issue of the adoption of the Amele Act, which was accepted, and was then appointed Mr. Celal Bayar, the Minister of Economics. The Basin study has been taken, the measures to be taken, the legal situation of working life and privileged coal companies, as a result of parliamentary negotiations, with a short name, the Vazai Fahmiye Amele Act. It was founded on July 21, 1923, on the basis of Article 4 of the Law on Amele on September 10, 1921. It is more than the first institution of social security in our country, it is located between the human and social criteria of its establishment and the monument institutions of our republic. The Amele Union, which has served in coal and energy work for 90 years, has served as Turkey's first social security organisation for a long time. Over time, he has handed over his duties to the public's expert institutions. And right now, despite all technological advances as the aid chest, it continues to serve and support our mining and energy workers who are still working under the most difficult conditions. As a result of the founding of the labour union, our mining workers have achieved significant gains in the areas of union, health, social security, labour health and occupational safety, including one part of the province of Bartın, Karabuk and Kastamonu. Workers working at TTK are required members of the Ark and workers working at TİAS Çamazı Termik Plant. Give me about 10 more members. The 15 articles of the law laid out in the Law on the Family Amele, No. 151, brought innovations to workers and working life according to that period. With this law, the victim and patient mineral worker, especially the care of their spouses, children, scholarships, temporary incapacity benefits, credit benefits, funerals, and occupational hazards have been provided. It also provides financial and moral support to members and, therefore, to the employer through the free and social benefits discussed above. In the last year, the Amulet Association has seen movement in the Zonguldak economy of 122m euros, with approximately $2 million in student aid, and other benefits at $34 million in cash movements in banks. This clearly shows the importance of the League of Americans to Zonguldak. Today, I celebrate the 91st year of our distinguished organization, which seems to be a very natural right, in which the laborer's life was revolutionised under the circumstances of that day. With this feeling and thought, as the mine remembers our martyrs with mercy and gratitude, I wish that the upcoming Day of Ramadan would be a blessing to all the world of Islam, and I salute the great Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you. The third word outside the agenda belongs to Ankara MP Izzet Çetin, who asked for a statement on the delays of the strike. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0006par0037	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, as the President said, I have made a pledge to postpone the strike, and I salute you all. Dear friends, Turkey met with strike rights on July 24, 1963, along with Unions No. 274 and Group Business Convention 275, the Strike Lokavt Act. But it's such a coincidence that on another July 24th, 50 years later, I'll really -- I'll explain later -- the AKP put off a strike surprisingly, quietly, no one knows. Yesterday, the government postponed the strike of workers who worked in Meadow, Elbistan, and the Tançbilek mines. This postponement is really interesting. Dear friends, just a month before the strike was postponed, as you know, the government postponed the attack of the Boscam workers on June 18th for 60 days because they considered the strike to be a disrupting public health and national security. After a month, he also postponed the strike. Before delaying, the court accepts a lawsuit filed against us by its co-owner, Turgay Ciner, in violation of the law, and counterensually halts the union's strike decision on the strike and the Lokavt Act. The union went to the same court yesterday afternoon, Ankara 4. He's appealing to the Business Court, he's objecting. This collective contract of employment is not part of the strike ban on the Strike Strike and Lokavat Act. When Law 6356 came out two years ago, our right to strike was raised. The court objects this time, and this time the court lifts its decision and the union begins to strike at noon yesterday, at 4 p.m. And the government -- we thought -- was in a hurry at 17 o'clock. He convened the Council of Ministers towards 00, and decided to postpone the strike. It turns out that the government has taken this decision in cooperation with Turgay Ciner, and I will show you his document here. Dear friends, the government says that the decision to strike at the site of the Elbistan Coal Basin Termik Plant and the Elbistan Coal Basin Develos coal is postponed for 60 days since the strike decision was again seen as disrupting general health and national security as well as in Boscam. The Council of Ministers has decided to postpone the strike on July 21, 2014. If the court stops the execution, we don't do the strike, at least we don't put it into effect. The Council of Ministers automatically, perhaps in advance, enforces its decision when the same court is forced to find and remove the strike through a precautionary measure. Dear friends, really, Turkey met a strike right sixty-one years ago, full of workers who lost their right to strike during the AKP period. There were 2,903 workers on strike in three workplaces. Dear friends, indeed, the strike is an important weapon used by the worker when he had to use his labor to protect and improve his rights unless it was mandatory. If the government, the employer, takes the weapon out of the hands of the worker, the worker remains unprotected, unable to find a way to improve the rights of the workers. As a result, this is a mining business... 301 miners on May 13th, tragically protesting the government's position in another mine after the AKP's co-workers lost their lives due to their failure to take the necessary work health, occupational safety measures. I also protest, condemn, and wish the workers good luck, the court that has taken away the rights of all the fellow workers who have gone on strike. Because of the upcoming Festival of Ramadan, I congratulate you all on the feast. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0007par0047	Thank you. Mr. Dağoğlu, this is for the holidays and for Mr. Yeniçeri. Here you go, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0008par0052	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I am celebrating the Ramadan Day of the entire Muslim world. Besides, today we're celebrating a second holiday, a 77-year-old dream that's coming true today. The high-speed train between Ankara and Istanbul has begun its journey today. I think it would be a blessing to all my citizens, to the whole community, to the whole world of humanity, to all of us, and to use it in good health. On this occasion, I also celebrate the feast of my citizens in Gaza, and pray that the genocide there will be over as soon as possible. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0009par0057	Thank you. Mr. New...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0010par0060	Mr. President, congratulations on the Ramadan Day of our great nation and the Islamic world. In addition, the EC PARTI president, our Prime Minister, who has dedicated his life to serving our nation and humanity, continues to insult President candidate Recep Tayyip Erdogan, every opposition MP on the stand, and I don't know how else we're going to endure it.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0009par0062	Mr. New, I promised you a holiday message, sir. That's a minute's notice.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0010par0063	Furthermore, the high - speed train connects the capital today with Istanbul; good luck and good luck. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0009par0065	Thank you. Mr. Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0011par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. 1,270 workers working at Çayırhan Termik Plant in Nallıhan district of Ankara have been on strike for two days. The employer and the labour union continue to disagree over a small difference. In this workplace, laborers are employed at the border of poverty. In the month of Mubarak Ramazan, the uncompromising attitude of the employer led to the strike. The employer's negative attitude is caused by the Council of Ministers. The employer remains uncompromising because the Council of Ministers postponed the strike for two months on grounds of general health and national security. The workers' ability to work under the current conditions has been eliminated, reduced to a miserable and poor position. Because the knife was up to the bone, the workers went on strike. Labour and bread are the most sacred value of mankind. There is no more natural right than for workers to demand the reward of their bread and labor. I call upon the Minister and the Government to be given the innocent rights of the workers and ensure that the workers do not return to work. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0012par0071	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0013par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's a holiday ahead of us, but I'd like to show you a picture. Colonel Necmi Yıldırım, Colonel Koray Eryasha, Colonel Tamer Cetin, Petty Officer Adnan Yilmaz. Despite the victims of all conspiracy cases, they're still in prison, and due to the conflict of duty, their files are in Supreme Court 5. The Department of Corrections hasn't made a decision in over a month. The Supreme Court also says they can handle their cases in September, but the colonels are still in prison. For him, I wish that the immediate public would be sensitive to this, and that the colonels, who were victims of the plot, would do whatever it takes to get the soldiers their freedom as soon as possible. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0014par0077	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0015par0080	Sir, I congratulate everyone on the blessed Day of Ramadan. The holidays have a very important gift to mankind, which is that people have always fought, fought, fought, fought, competed with each other at various levels. But the holidays, the holidays in many cultures, remind people that you are doing all this, but ultimately you have a partnership; in this world, where you are buried, there are qualities that will make you brothers, and collect you in common human values. I see it as a gift. I give you my regards to remembering this quality in other holidays and wishing that, in this context, mankind would continue, if this ancient story was to be continued, to be remembered, to be fought, to be fought, to be continued.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0014par0081	Thank you. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0016par0084	Mr. President, I sincerely congratulate the Ramadan Day of the entire Islamic world. I also celebrate the Ramadan Bayrams of Ramadan, wishing that under the bombs, under persecution, our Palestinian brothers, Syrians, Iraqis, Myanmarns, Somalis, Sudanese brothers, would be free from persecution and slavery. This is where I greet the third intifada, which began in Palestine. And because Ankara-İstanbul High Speed Train has begun the campaign today, I sincerely hope that all contributors, especially our Prime Minister, will be happy for our nation.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0017par0087	Thank you. Mr. Tamer...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0018par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. We're past Ramadan. I celebrate the Ramadan Holidays of all our people and the Islamic world. It is also our greatest desire, especially in Palestine, that the blood spilled in Gaza should stop immediately, that they enter the Festival of Ramadan in peace and happiness. Again, in Syria, in Iraq, especially in Turkmen, I assure them to stop immediately, to enter the Festival of Ramadan, with respect.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0019par0094	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0020par0097	Mr. President, I congratulate you on the blessed Ramadan Day of our beloved nation and the Islamic world. I also condemn Islam's geography in every Ramadan, especially all evil forces that drown old Ottoman lands in blood, and I wish all my friends Ramadan the best, and I wish them good holidays.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0019par0098	Thank you. Mr. Yellow...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0021par0101	Mr. President, thank you. I sincerely celebrate the blessed Day of Ramadan, of all the worlds of Islam and of our beloved nation. As I wish that Israel's genocide would end quickly in Palestine, I also congratulate our Muslim brothers in Gaza on the blessed Ramadan Holidays. In addition, today, I wish the opening of the high-speed train, which will be opened by our EC PARTY President, Prime Minister and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to the best of our entire nation, and to celebrate the blessed Day of Ramadan of all our friends.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0022par0104	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0023par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. In Gaza, Iraq, Afghanistan, all Muslims, and in prison, the police, journalists, writers, and all the prisoners, and all the world's Islamic world, celebrate the Day of Candy, with the wish of a free holiday...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0022par0109	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0024par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Congratulations on the blessed Ramadan Day of the entire Islamic world. In these blessed months, especially Gaza, I wish to end the suffering of Syria, Iraq and East Turkistan and our persecuted brothers and sisters in the entire Islamic world. In particular, the United Nations, which remained silent during this persecution of the Islamic world, with no reaction, condemns the United Nations in particular, and I believe that the entire Islamic world must do something about it to see that the world is now greater than five, thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0025par0115	Thank you. Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0026par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. I too celebrate the Ramadan Festival of all our citizens and the Islamic world, wishing that this holiday would be the cause of peace and love, my greetings and greetings to all our citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0027par0121	Thank you. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0028par0124	Thank you, Mayor. Two friends, Engin Orphan and Abdullah Turk, who were part of a group of motorcycle travellers, whose purpose was to organize motorcycle trips and recognise our homeland through social and cultural activities, were cut off and were not heard from while traveling with their families in the area of Halfeti district of Şanlıurfa on July 21, 2014. The people last spoke to their families on July 21, 2014, at 2:30 p.m., but then they were cut off. On 23 July 2014, they were found brutally murdered in an abandoned building in the district of Halfeti, Şanlıurfa Province, Czech District. We've reached a time when we can't even go to the top of our country to exercise the right to freedom of travel. At this point, we are witnessing that the government has completely lost the country and its citizens' safety, the safety of property, in certain parts of our country. We expect the government to investigate and explain this murder immediately and immediately.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0029par0128	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0030par0131	Mr. President, thank you. On October 29, 2013, on the 90th anniversary of our republic, the Marmaray Project, and today, when the high-speed train reached Ankara-Istanbulum, we sent a message to our young people: "You have a leader and a country that makes dreams come true. It's a good thing we're making our dreams come true. I wish by this sentence that the blood that flows in Gaza and all over the world should stop, that the Day of Ramadan would bring blessings to the Islamic world.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0031par0134	Thank you. Mr. Sener...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0032par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. I too celebrate the Ramadan Day of our nation and the entire Islamic world, and hope that this blood will stop quickly in all the places where blood has been spilled. Today, our Prime Minister, our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has achieved a great dream, I wish you all the best of Ankara-Istanbul's fast track to our nation, to our country, and to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0033par0140	Thank you. Mr. Turkmenoglu...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0034par0143	Mr. President, thank you. I'm celebrating the Ramadan Day of the entire Islamic world. Hopefully, it will bring peace, peace and brotherhood to the world. Again, I wish Ankara-Istanbul's fast train line to be a blessing. This will be the beginning of not only Ankara-Istanbul but also the beginning of the campaigns that will continue between Conium-Istanbul. I'd like to thank all our ministers, all our bureaucrats, especially our Prime Minister, who's passed the job. Good luck to our country, to our nation. In the meantime, I pray that the atrocities in Palestine will stop immediately. I'm also protesting against the United Nations for being silent against the human drama and genocide of the world. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0035par0148	Thank you. Mr. Akgun...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0036par0151	Mr. President, thank you very much. I congratulate you on the Ramadan Day of our beloved nation and the Islamic world. I would also like to congratulate you on the holiday of our esteemed fellow congressmen in the House. I desire the feast to be the cause of peace, peace, and brotherhood. I wish that the Ankara-Istanbul high-speed train, which will be in service today, will bring blessings to our nation, to our country. I congratulate everyone, especially Mr. President, who's been working on this project.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0037par0154	Thank you. Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0038par0157	Mr. President, like all my friends, I celebrate first the holiday of our friends in Congress, and then the feast of our great nation and of the entire Islamic world. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy to those of our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for this country, and long life to our veterans while celebrating the holidays of their relatives, and my constituency celebrates the feast of my fellow citizens in Bırıkkale, and I pay you all my respects again, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0037par0158	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0039par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. And I congratulate you and all the members of the House on the holidays of my fellow congressmen. I also want to point out that since we've been hearing about it in public for the past two days, I want to express its importance: an unwanted incident in Halfefeti district of Şanlıurfa, and I ask God's mercy for those who have lost their lives there. But let them know that glory is a province of peace, of brotherhood, of love, and halfa is also a law. Because dirty information in public can lead to different perceptions. I wanted to explain it to him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0040par0164	Thank you. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0041par0167	Sir, first of all, I congratulate my Turkish and Muslim brothers who were persecuted in Turkey and Islam, especially in Karabağ, northern Iraq, Syria, Arakan, East Turkistan, and Gaza. I pray for the immediate end of the suffering, and for this geography to reach peace, peace, and peace as soon as possible, like all the other Geography. I'd also like to point out that I don't think it's appropriate for everyone to move messages to the General Assembly for their own birth and future holidays, which will include everyone and everyone will embrace. The works of the people are performed. We are proud of all that is done, and of all that is good. And without denying the previous efforts, I, too, would like to wish the good fortune of the fast train route to Istanbul, the good fortune of our nation, from God to God, and to congratulate all my fellow MPs on the holidays.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0040par0169	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0042par0172	Mr. President, thank you very much. Yesterday, when I told our group that any unlawful trial during the ruling party was the main employer's ruling party's ruling party's ruling party, a member of the ruling party had lost control and attacked our group.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0043par0174	Mr. President, didn't you promise me a holiday message? You warned Mr. New, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0042par0175	From now on, I think assault or opposition to such ideas should only be verbal, and...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0044par0176	Mr. Special, I made this promise for the holidays.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0042par0177	Yeah, yeah, I'm on it.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0044par0178	But please, let it be for the cause of the holiday.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0042par0179	I don't think violence against words is right. I hope that things like this will never happen again, and despite all the negativity throughout Ramadan, I hope that the holiday will bring peace and peace to our country and our Parliament. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0045par0182	Thank you. Mr. Vural, last word...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0046par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. We will finish the holy Ramadan, and celebrate the Festival of Ramadan, and may our holiday cheer continue. And I wish all lawmakers a peaceful holiday with their families, a peaceful holiday for our entire nation. May His Holiness not keep us from sharing these good times together. Today, the Ankara-Istanbul Fast Iron Road Project is actually at an important stage. Yeah, well, the 110km conventional line isn't complete either, I'm afraid. As a government that has made a tender for Marmaray, has found its credit, I also thank those who later brought this project to this day, as a government that, in fact, took the introduction of the Ankara-Istanbul Iron Road Project to an external-credited tender program and then made its tender on April 20, 2000. In this regard, the fact that these projects that the National Movement Party signed during the Ministry of Transport today also reveal how important things have been done in the harsh conditions of that day, but Marmaray is not over, this project is an integrated project to Marmaray, and in this regard, this project must be completed. It is not really right to use candidate Erdogan as a propaganda tool in the presidential process. In that regard, I hope he will not neglect to thank those who contributed to this project during the time before him on his journey today. I would also like to express my thanks to those who have brought it so far. Good luck, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0047par0190	Thank you. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0048par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear President, now, a congressman of ours gave a speech about last night. I'm not here to tell anyone...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0047par0195	Mr. Çelebi, I've warned the congressman, please, about the holiday, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0048par0197	Mr. President, may I suggest that I, of course, celebrate everyone's holiday. And because of this disparagement to our brothers in Gaza, I especially condemn Israel again, and may Allah dry that seed, but I especially say that there is no one here, especially not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one. We've been up there for 38 days...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0047par0198	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0048par0199	I beg you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0047par0200	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0048par0201	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0047par0202	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, students who will continue their studies by winning universities in different cities from the cities where their families live face serious problems with a place to stay. As a result of the failure to meet the need for housing capacity and the failure of homes to meet the requirements of the age, families live under high financial burdens and under difficult circumstances. In addition, students struggle to survive, rather than fight the challenging conditions of life, away from their families, on the conditions of life that are difficult every day. Even though there are millions of university students in our country, loans and dorms are not able to provide for students. Students who have come out of their long, stressful exams are suffering from new stress and serious problems about a place to stay, rather than rejoicing in their success. Young people who have just been brought into life and whose health we will entrust to our country's future are being tampered with, and AKP power, whose task is to remove the stress, remains indifferent to this problem every new year. Student families who can't get into KYK dorms, private dorms with high financial burdens, or a foundation, etc. He's taking serious risks going to the dorms. The majority of the families of university students are pensioners. Retired citizen of AKP power, almost 2. As a result of his view of the class as a citizen, a new blow to families struggling with the conditions of life is being hit through their children and directed to private homes, and children with families suffer major financial crises. Many families have had to break down, have to sell their savings for many years, and with that order, traumas occur in families that are the most fundamental part of society. Students who have reached thousands, even millions, move to work by putting their studies on the sidelines so as not to be a burden to their families, as if being oppressed by the AKP in order to maintain their lives in the face of capital. Many students who are overwhelmed by the conditions of this life are taking a break from their studies or giving up. The political power, whose mission is to present the best conditions and to ensure that the students continue a happy, peaceful education, is simply watching this exploitation. Association, foundation, etc. Students who turn to their homes are familiar with the practice of martial law. It's a fraternity, a foundation, and so on in their dorms. They have to live their lives in exposure to the propaganda of corporations, changing their thoughts through pressure, directing their own lives instead of living their own, and carrying other people's thoughts. The majority of students who have earned the right to enter state dorms continue to live under difficult conditions that contain no human element. There is no hot water in many dorms, or at certain hours, not even a computer, which is essential to our age, but there is not even a computer, and prison conditions are being provided with more than their capacity in dorm rooms, and many health-based problems are being faced with this problem. The country is raised in prison conditions by young people who we will entrust our future to, and are left with unhealthy conditions, playing with their health. Therefore, we respectfully present the need for our Constitutional 98th, Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 104th and 105th amendments to open a parliamentary investigation, so that our students can continue to study under sound, peaceful and comfortable conditions, to address these problems of the dorms, to entrust our future to the country's rulers. 9/7/2012 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 3) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 10) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The injustice created by the tax system in our country continues to grow rapidly, putting it on more and more each year. With failed policies followed, understanding that makes the poor poor poorer and the rich richer continues to remove the price of their failures from poor citizens, with this growing injustice. Every day, another blow is struck to our poor citizens who have been oppressed or oppressed by exposure to poverty, especially to the injustice created by the tax system. Voicing his promise to fight poverty in the 2002 General Elections, the AKP is trying to push the poor citizen to a poorer position by swallowing the promise of ending poverty during its rule. The AKP, which puts all the burden of the state on the poor and does not provide a living for the poor citizen, takes the power of the AKP one step further in its unfair policies and crushes our poor citizens in the face of the struggle to live. The income tax rate of the 100 richest people in our country remains at 5 per cent, while the minimum wage rate is 15 per cent. In 2002, the tax burden of the poorest 5 per cent in Turkey increased twice as much as the tax burden of the richest 5 per cent, while this injustice has increased to 3 in the last decade. The total wealth of the 100 richest people amounted to 92 billion, 351 million liras, while the tax record was paid by 100 people at $530.5 million a year. The 100 tax record holder earns $2 billion and 40 million a year, while the same earns about 3 million and 215 thousand minimum wage. So in a different way, 32,150 minimum wage earns a year's income by a wealthy individual. These figures clearly reveal the distortion, cruelty, and injustice of the tax system in Turkey. Two-thirds of taxes in Turkey are collected from taxes on consumption, such as VAT, Special Consumption Tax (ÖTV) and Special Communication Tax (VV), which our poor citizens consume most. Because consumer taxes are the same for people of every income, our poor citizens who spend much more of their income are taxing their income through consumption taxes and thus being exploited by the lives of our poor citizens. There is only one reason for this system of injustice: the rich want to be richer, and the political power exploits the entire load through labourers instead of those with a high income. In other words, executives fail to receive income tax from wealthy citizens. And with continued tax pardons, honest citizens are paid the price for being honest. In fair societies, honest citizens are rewarded, while in our country, honest citizens who have captured every area with AKP power are punished for injustice, and the state encourages tax evasion by its own hand. The policy of legitimizing this wrong has led to the loss of our country, and the loss is being paid back to communities in our country, where the search for rights has become almost impossible. The AKP, which constantly illustrates the global crisis in giving employees a raise, but squanders the resources of the state, repossessing the power of the AKP, with almost increasing taxes on the alms they give to employees. For example, after the 4+4 per cent increase rate given to officers, the income tax rate of hundreds of thousands of officers, whose annual income is over 10,000 liras, is higher than 15 per cent to 20 per cent. Creating a country that can't stop increasing inflation rates, without failing and self-intelligent economic policies, the current government, along with these shared rates, exploits employees, leaving them vulnerable and powerless in the face of the growing struggle for life every day. Instead of fighting the negative paintings shared above, the AKP, which has created new victims, wants to pay taxes for almost every breath our citizens take in our country. In international research, taxes and taxation rates in our country are placed first in the world. In addition, many of these taxes are kept secret as to what they are collected for and what they are used for. In order to determine the purpose of the taxes collected by the implementation of transparent state principles, to stop the taxation practices that make the rich richer, the poor poor poor poor, and to determine solutions to this injustice, we respectfully present the need for the opening of Parliamental research on the basis of Articles 104, and 105 of our Constitutional Charter of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 3) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] 6) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] 8) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate Şanlıurfa's watering and electricity problems, to determine the solution-oriented work to be conducted on this matter, I respectfully submit the Constitution's mandate to open a parliamentary investigation under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution. 23/7/2012 1) Mahmut Tanal [[İstanbul]] 2) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] 3) Ali Demirçalı [[Adana]] 4) Haydar Akar [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Ali Sarıbaş [[Çanakkale]] 6) Aylin Nazlıaka [[Ankara]] 7) Sakine Öz [[Manisa]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 9) Veli Ağbaba [[Malatya]] 10) Namik Havut [[Balıkesir]] 11) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 12) Hasan Akgöl [[Hatay]] 13) Celal Dinçer [[İstanbul]] 14) Ihsan Özkes [[İstanbul]] 15) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 16) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 17) "Brenkent Tezcan" [[Aydın]] 18) Free Special [[Manisa]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 20) Born Dawn [[Niğde]] 21) Ilhan Demiröz [[Scholarship]] The majority of the people in Turkey, particularly Şanlıurfa, Diyarbakır and Mardin, provide for themselves with agriculture and livestock. They invest in agriculture and livestock. Farmers in Şanlıurfa, Mardin and Diyarbakır have suffered major losses due to direct income support payments and frozen loans that have not been paid recently. In November 2011 and December, they were still unable to use the expected grain premium support, and our struggling farmers today have no money to buy fertilizer, not even the seed to plant in the next semester. Our farmers who are trying to cope with these challenges are becoming increasingly bored and unable to find a way out because of the excessive electricity bills they pay for irrigation. Due to the failure of the GAP, an important part of the public is draining their land from wells, drawing water from wells, turning into a huge hole, and in the time of watering these contradictions, farmers who are unable to get healthy and uninterrupted energy come to the point of rebellion every year because of their constant power shortages. White items, such as refrigerators, televisions, ovens, washing machines, and dishwashers, are also burned and damaged inside the citizen's home. Our citizens there have trouble using electric stoves to warm up in the winter and air conditioning during the summer. Citizens' air conditioning and electric stoves are constantly failing. The province of Şanlıurfa is one of the areas where electrical irrigation is concentrated, so it has serious disadvantages. Drilling water from wells with electrical energy, unfortunately, has become the fate of the local farmer. The technical problems with thousands of pumps coming in and out at the same time during the irrigation period have become our farmer's nightmare for the resources and grid shortages that have been forced to meet the demand. The blackouts, especially the people of Şanliurfa, are putting citizens in a very difficult position. Power outages that haven't happened in other cities raise the question of whether Şanlıurfa is the adopted son of this country. The GAP receives 16 Turkish liras per year in areas watered by dam water. These facilities were built entirely by the state, and even if construction costs divided by 60 years per decarred, they are not less than 70 Turkish liras per year. Farmers who can't take advantage of this opportunity because the dam didn't reach and build their own facility, watering it with electricity, pay 225 Turkish liras per year per year (from 200 meters to water at current electricity prices). These outrageous differences in prices bring in inequality among farmers and cause unfair competition. What is essential in public service is that the government gives that service to the citizens at minimum cost and without economic profit. The inequality of citizens who are unable to benefit from the irrigation opportunities here is that the state has not been able to provide sufficient service. The GAP Action Plan, announced in 2008 by the AKP government, which has been in power for ten years but has failed to make any progress on this issue, has stated that by 2012 the irrigation canals will be largely completed. In response to the petitions submitted by me on this issue, continued investment efforts continue. Why aren't these studies finished yet? The citizens' products are dry because they are constantly cut off or unable to pay their high electricity bills. The government is responsible for this. In order for a citizen's product to be institutionalized, a citizen who drills with his own resources, as if he's being watered by 16 euros per year in places that are not watered by the state so that he doesn't become a victim is a requirement of the Constitutional principle of equality and social law. For these reasons, I have petitioned the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and Turkey Electric Disposing of Electricity to the Ministry of Powers, and the Ministry of Social Law and Equality to do the procedure that must be followed, since the farmers who offer public service by suspension of the state for $16 euro in electricity money on farms watered by the state by their own means. Because according to Article 2 (d) of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources of the Ministry of Energy (3154), the duties of the Ministry of Energy (Energy) and the duties of the Ministry of Energy (Energy) are between the duties and responsibilities of the Minister of Energy, and the Minister of Energy must do it immediately. For these reasons, I respectfully submit to the establishment of a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98 of Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, to fully determine Şanlıurfa's watering and electricity problems and to address the problems. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Under the decision taken, we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the 3rd ranking chairmanship of the Turkish Institutes of Health and the Commission for Family, Labour and Social Affairs Report, and with the proposal of a Law that is consistent with the Charter of the Law and Law. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, with 108 legal proposals for the amendments to certain Laws and Laws. Number: 639) [[X]] The commission and the government are in place. According to Article 91, the fourth amendment was adopted in the fourth part of the bill, which was considered the basic law in accordance with the 91st Article of the Civil Code. Now, there's a motion for a new substance clause, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's Party; Ankara MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelılılılı MP İzlı İzlı İztay Kılı; İstanbul MP İztay Çekıçı; İstanbul MP İncın's Party; İstanbul MP İncı's Party; İstanbul MP İncımım İçı and İstanbul's MP İçı Akçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul Çaçı Akçı Başıı MP İsılıılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıçıçıçıçı MP İsı MPı MP İçııııı MP İsı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııılıııııııııılılılı MPı MPıçıçıçıçı MPıçı MPı MPı MPıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPııııııııııııııııııııııııııılılılılılılılılı MPıı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılı MP and İstanbul MPı MPı MPılılılılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılılılılılılılılılılı We propose and provide that the following matter be added and other substances be identified accordingly. 5 per cent of the tax-paying tax from those who pay the income and institution's tax during installments is reduced on time under the Tax Tax Tax Tax Tax Tax Taxes and Institutions Taxes Act 213, dated 76-04.01.1961." Engin Altay Bkent Kuşoglu of Rahmi Love Moses Chooses the Yellow Vacay Mr. Commissioner, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0049par0393	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0047par0394	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. There are three motions of the same nature on the 76th article, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of the Law, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of the 76th Amendment. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Özcan Yeniçeri Mustafa Kalaycı Mesut Dedeoğlu Haydar Akar Hasan Kören of Rahmi Love Moses Chooses Pine Vahaap Mehmet Ali Sesame Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0050par0415	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0047par0416	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0051par0417	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0047par0418	Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants a word on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0052par0420	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 76th Amendment to the Law of the Law and Law. I salute the General Assembly. Under Article 76, institutional tax collectors will be able to correct the amount of netting between the sums owed to their partners and the sums owed to the partners due to the actual operations of the business, until the end of the third month, following the date of which the law was published. Under this arrangement, the lawmakers register their unregistered assets for 3 per cent tax. It is also the legalisation of money laundering. Similarly, in recent years, the AK PARTY government has been brought to parliament and there will be no more pardons. Against the promise of the AK PARTY government, we are faced with an arrangement aimed at laundering the off-the-books of the bosses. Dear lawmakers, with this arrangement, the spending of the bosses from the company's vault, the disclosures of non-registered goods and safe deposit boxes will be closed by 3 per cent tax and will be put into the system. This will allow the registration of unregistered revenues made by corporations in recent years. These unregistered coins will be laundered as the Finance Ministry does not play the active control role that companies should conduct in business and operations. Dear lawmakers, like the Court's lack of supervision of ministry budgets, unable to write healthy reports, the Finance Ministry remains dysfunctional in the face of some companies and individuals. How, in what ways, can these companies make off-the-book savings? When these companies are making these off-the-book savings, what are the finance department's audit units doing? Mr. Finance Minister is required to inform the Council and the public on this bench. Dear lawmakers, in the face of millions of university graduates who have had difficulty paying their small tax debts, and millions of citizens who have been unable to pay their student loans, but have not been able to pay their student loans because the state has not been able to provide any work, the Ministry of Finance is making extremely urgent and foreclosure decisions, and can victimize millions of our citizens. However, in the face of corruption, environmental plunder, bribery, black money, unlimited profit, the labor of workers, which can lead workers to death, cause many homes to fall apart, which can save money without origin, the Ministry of Finance has almost nothing to do with them, even as it is in this material. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers will encourage these and similar unregistered, unregistered funds to be constantly pardoned for the laundering of unregistered funds, leading these companies and individuals to unregistered. In addition, this arrangement will legitimize unregistered economic gains that are not due to its origin. Dear lawmakers, it is also politically unethical to fill the commission with a large number of different substances in order to address the victims of those who lost their lives during the mining massacre in Soma and correct the conditions for working in the mines. A bill that is expected to be discussed for the delivery of the worker's rights, on the contrary, bringing it to a point that advocates the interests of capital, is not connected to social justice, nor is it possible for us to accept it on our side. For the reasons that I have stated, I am renewing once again our request to remove the 76th article from the draft text, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0053par0429	Thank you. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0054par0433	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in Article 76. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers will be able to rectify their records by the end of the third month following the release of this law to the tax offices and register their non-registered assets for 3 per cent of tax dollars, as well as the amount of net purchases between those in which the business is owed due to the actual transactions or those in debt. First of all, I'd like to point out that the Finance Ministry has no knowledge of this arrangement, which has been expressed by the Finance Minister outside the Finance Ministry on other platforms and by other lawmakers, and it has been said by the Finance Minister himself that it is an amnesty, and we know that the Law 6111 in 2011 also had this arrangement, and around 36,000 corporate tax collectors took advantage of this arrangement. Now, just this arrangement is coming. In Article 75, debt configuration and this registration correction are coming. What's not here now, even though it's in 6111? The taxpayers also have expectations. For example, there's no stock statement here, there's no matherapy increase, there's no regulation on the value tax statement. These were the demands of the taxpayers, why don't they? If this were a well-intentioned arrangement, they would have to be brought in. And the fact that he wasn't brought in has been remarkable from our care. And, of course, public curiosity is an invention. I wonder if there's money hidden in these shoeboxes. Do you think there's any money in the houses that's reset, that's what's in the safes in the bedrooms? Yes, you do. What do you mean? Well, these coins didn't come down from the sky. Many owners' accounts have been corrupted. Now, this arrangement will also give a comfortable breath to businessmen who are funneling money into AKP's election efforts, looking for different formulas to find money in the pool. As it is known, under Prime Minister Erdogan's instructions, former Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım was reportedly collecting about $650m from businessmen for the pool media known as the ATV-Morning Group, some of which paid $100m per million. There are also significant differences between the assets and the balance sheets of the companies that have given the pool $100 million per million. Companies that transfer money for the pool media and supporters such as the Persian servant Reza Zarraf, who launders money and operates off the record, are also made easy. Of course, it would be wrong to put all the taxpayers in such a negative category, especially as an exception. Of course, in these regulations, farmers have no agricultural irrigation, no electricity debts, no debt to agricultural banks and agricultural loans, no debt to the People's Bank, the villages have no drinking water, no electricity debts, and many other defects that we can count but our time has not given. With these thoughts, I would like to request the acceptance of our motion, and I would like to extend my regards to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0055par0442	Thank you. The third statement on the same proposals belongs to Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0056par0446	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is the matter we're talking about, you know, it's a pardon clause. Yesterday, during his speech, Mr. Vedat said that on the department, he pointed to the errors of this as much as a ruling MP could. Minister, are you a fan of this clause on behalf of the government? This is -- I don't know -- do you know what kind of substance it is, but -- it's what Mr. Finance Minister calls a pardon clause, and it's against it. This brings true forgiveness. I mean, he's taxing 3 per cent of something that normally needs to be taxed 15 per cent, but in addition to that, he's taxing 3 per cent instead of 15 per cent, but in the event of that detection, there's also a delay hike, a penalty, and so on. I mean, it's very important. We don't bring tax forgiveness. We call it tax forgiveness, but we bring tax forgiveness in plain sight, and we bring it in unfairly. Now, we're bringing in some purchases that were seen in the current account of partners who were not in the vault, even though they were in the records. Well, Mr. Vedat Demiröz told me yesterday- why don't we bring it in for inventory, even though it's in the records and it's not in the business? I mean, is there a special reason for that? We don't have two businesses, we work side by side, we work in the same place; think, we only do this for the fictitious vault account, but the other one who works with him has the same problem with the forges, for the same reason, but we don't bring them for him. Then what are we bringing it in for? I mean, we don't bring it in for law, tax, economic reasons, we don't bring it in for God's sake, what do we bring it in for on this blessed day? We're bringing it in for the benefit of the party, and you know it in the press, so we're bringing it in for the benefit of four contractors. If we can't answer that, we'll face a direct charge like that, and unfortunately that's true. So, please, my dear friends, I know there are honest, decent people among you, so don't let them take the vote. It's really very unfair, very wrong, very illegal; it really is. Now, we have problems with the IRS. The Finance Minister has announced in the Commission that we will buy $66 billion from the market. He says 67 billion. You know, tax revenues dropped in June, too. What fell out of the revenues? The corporate tax has dropped significantly, the added value tax has dropped. The import value added tax and added value tax were reduced. What are we bringing forgiveness for? Even though it's in the records, it's a convenient safe for the assets, the partners are available in the current account. Now, what does that have to do with rights and law? How can we explain all this? Mr. Minister can't explain what the Minister of Finance can't explain, even if the Minister of Finance didn't own it, you shouldn't own it the same way, precious MPs. If you say, if you have sworn to do so, if you have this morality, you must not doubt it, you must not vote for it. There's no such substance, there's no such arrangement. In 2011, we also arranged a pardon as a parliament, but it was comprehensive, brought into all areas, and society needed it. Now, we're just bringing in a pardon for two pens, and we're bringing in an arrangement like this, which we need to bring in at least 11 pens, and in order for that to be right, we need to make arrangements in other areas. Such an arrangement is a very troubling arrangement. It's going to cause a great deal of trouble for society's conscience, a great deal of trouble for state sovereignty, a lot of trouble for the state order of the Treasury. No matter how I look at it, it's troubling, and as I just said, the Minister of Finance is against it. Dear friends, I suggest that you do not approve of this clause, that the item be removed, or that the subject of tax pardons be brought up again and brought up in a broader, more rightful way. I give all of you this occasion my regards and wish you a happy holiday.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0057par0454	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0058par0455	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0057par0456	Thank you. I will submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0059par0460	I want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0057par0461	We've got a roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0060par0462	Mr. President, but there's a taunt. Vedat Beyιn, before voting on this clause...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0057par0463	I will, sir, because of the bullying, I will.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0060par0464	Sir, before we vote on the item, let the friend make a statement.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0057par0465	Mr. Elitaş, they're on their feet, we'll do the roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0060par0466	But, Mr. President, he has an objection to the matter because you're going to vote.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0057par0467	I'll have the transcripts brought in if he wants to make a statement about the abuse, Mr. Elistash, but he has no right to comment on the matter, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0060par0468	Mr. President, speaking to his name, said: "Vedat Demiröz... I object, says pardon."
tbmm-2014-07-25sit01spe0057par0469	I'm saying I will. I'll meet the roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Tureli, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Serter, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kuruturk, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Yeniçeri. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0057par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 126th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of the three motions on the 76th article. Now I'm going to do the roll call again. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. 4 - İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Ökalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; Ankara MP Idris Baluken's; İstanbul MP Sena Kaleli's and 5 MP's Democratic Party's Party of Justice and Minister of Law; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Çakı's Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çüçı; İstanbul MP İçılı and Ankara's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Minister's Party; Şeçı İçılı İçıçı MP İçıçı MP İçı; Mehmet Çaçıçıçıçıçıçıçı; Şeçıçııııııılıılıılı; İstanbul MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul MPı MPı MPıııııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılııılıılıılıılılılı MP İsıçılı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPıçıçı MPı MPı MPı MPııııııııııııııı MPı MPııııı MPıııııııııılılılılıılılılıııııııılıçılıçııılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılışılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçıçılı MPııılıılılıııılılılılılıııııııılılıııılılılılılılılılılılılıılılılılılılılılılılılılı Number: 639) [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0061par0015	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0057par0016	I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0061par0018	Mr. President, according to 69, I've been told that I've linked my name to the pardon of the vault. I want to make a correction.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0057par0019	Mr. Irony, please sit down, I'll give you my word on your position. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0061par0023	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, in last night's speech, I didn't have time for this 76th article because I didn't have time to correct the vault. Although Mr. Akar asked me, what happened to the safe pardon? I couldn't get into it because I didn't have time. It's not a pardon. It's not about small businesses -- in particular, in small businesses -- but just about corporations -- that there's a surplus in the deposit box in any way, which can often be attracted by partners, which may be a undocumented without a document, it's about the sum of 131 and 231 accounts in debt, the sum of 331 and 431 in passive sums, or the sum of the surplus in the safe. It will be paid 3 per cent over the specified number, and it will be written as a non-lawly accepted expense. However, three per cent are written as illegal expenses, but the surplus will remain on the sidelines as a negative account, and will be subject to 15 per cent if it is withdrawn from the operation or is cut off from the profits of the past year. So this will be seen in the future when the Ministry of Finance is monitored by everyone with a notice. It's not a pardon, it's just a balance sheet correction. I wanted to present it.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0062par0026	Thank you, Mr. Irony. 4 - İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Ökalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; Ankara MP Idris Baluken's; İstanbul MP Sena Kaleli's and 5 MP's Democratic Party's Party of Justice and Minister of Law; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Çakı's Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çüçı; İstanbul MP İçılı and Ankara's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Minister's Party; Şeçı İçılı İçıçı MP İçıçı MP İçı; Mehmet Çaçıçıçıçıçıçıçı; Şeçıçııııııılıılıılı; İstanbul MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul MPı MPı MPıııııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılııılıılıılıılılılı MP İsıçılı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPıçıçı MPı MPı MPı MPııııııııııııııı MPı MPııııı MPıııııııııılılılılıılılılıııııııılıçılıçııılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılışılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçıçılı MPııılıılılıııılılılılılıııııııılılıııılılılılılılılılılılılıılılılılılılılılılılılılı 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK). Number: 639) [[Continue]] There are three separate motions on Article 77: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be replaced in the form of the reference specified in Article 77, dated 4/11/1981, which stipulates to add temporary substances to the 2547 Higher Education Law. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 77th Amendment to the Constitution shall be changed in the following manner. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Fear Kemalettin Yılmaz Özcan Yeniçeri Mesut Dedeoğlu MADDE 77- 4/11/1981, and number 2547, added the following temporary clause to the higher education law. BY the end of the fiscal year of 66- 2015, the budgets for higher education institutions can be transferred to economic codes related to medical health practices and research centers to pay medical supplies and medical equipment budgets in the function "01-General Public Services." The amount is not taken into account in the account of the numerator and additional payment, which will be divided under Article 58 of the Law, which is dated 17/9/2004 and shall be paid under Article 1 of the Act 5234. In accordance with the first joke of Article 50 of this Law (d), researchers who serve as assistant professors are assigned to the staff of researchers who have been identified in the first part of Article 33 of this Law (a) with no need to be processed. As part of this clause, the past service times of those assigned to the research staff have been spent on the research staff. The Ministry of Finance is in charge of bringing restrictions on the implementation of this clause, establishing procedures and foundations." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the current Business Law 639, proposals of the Law and Budget Commission's 77th Amendments to certain Laws and Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Haydar Akar Hasan Kören of Rahmi Love Bornt Kuşoğlu Mehmet Ali Sesam Vahab Selects Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0063par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0062par0057	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0064par0058	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0062par0059	Vahap chooses to make a statement on the motion, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0065par0062	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, first of all, the subject of our motion, the purpose, the purpose of this clause, the 77th article, the amendment to the Higher Education Law, is to add an additional clause, a temporary clause, and we want it removed from the text of the law. I'll try to explain why we want it. Now, colleges can sell their own real estate, but they can use them for their own private investments. Here, by the end of the fiscal year of 2015, the universities are asked to sell their move, but they are asked to pay off their debt due to the purchase of medical supplies, which they have accumulated, due to drug purchases, in this new arrangement. My dear friends, of course the law is being made to solve the problem, but it's not an arrangement that solves the problem, it's a temporary delivery-university, and we know that Hacettepe University is the biggest problem in the matter, and so we're against it because there's an arrangement for that -- an organization that's being put into place. However, if there really are problems with the rotating capitals of our universities, they can be resolved by different arrangements. We know these problems, we've also received opinions from universities, and during the commission's work, they say: "We can't make a difference like any other private hospital, we're doing a $10 job, we can bill $7." So, these explanations are piling up, coming to these points, and we're getting to the point where we can't pay our debts. We also pay the price difference from our late payments or options, which is much more expensive than market conditions, and we do these kinds of medical equipment or other purchases. So this is not an arrangement that will solve problems in all universities at once. So we want this item removed from the text of the law. My dear friends, an investigation into 60 professors at Ankara University has been launched in early July. The reason for this is that you committed crimes against the prevention of education and teaching. Come and give us a statement about this. The approach. You know, Turkey, especially the headscarf, the headscarf, whatever you might call it, has suffered a lot of these issues, has had a lot of discussions, has happened in universities, has happened in Parliament, has its headscarves or has it not been in public institutions? Now, where did that come from? Why is a recent drop-off in July 2014 trying to get back on the agenda? The University of İstanbul is sending an article dated July 27, 2010 to the Rectorship of İstanbul, saying: "O professors, if students come to classes with headscarves, with headscarves, don't prevent them, take them to classes, but also write a report on them and report to the deanship. Of course, Ankara University is in accordance with this article, and the university board of directors is making a decision on 12 April 2011, saying that they are sending us a decision on the basis of investigations against students due to their conduct against the rules and the dress of our university. Now, I'm not looking for goodwill here. Why? I'm just saying, on the one hand, the government is doing a series of parallel-building operations in the police department, and you've started an operation that reflects this? So what is this rematching understanding? Is this academic war within the academy, within universities, or are the rules of the NGO or the university acting on the government's instructions? I wanted to bring this to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I hope you'll support our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0066par0070	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 77th Amendment to the Constitution shall be changed in the following manner. Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends MADDE 77- 4/11/1981, and number 2547, added the following temporary clause to the higher education law. BY the end of the fiscal year of 66- 2015, the budgets for higher education institutions can be transferred to economic codes related to medical schools' health practices and research centres in order to pay the budget of medicine, medical supplies and medical equipment, provided they are paid for in self-indulgence. The amount is not taken into account in the account of the numerator and additional payment, which will be divided under Article 58 of the Law, which is dated 17/9/2004 and shall be paid under Article 1 of the Act 5234. In accordance with the first joke of Article 50 of this Law (d), researchers who serve as assistant professors are assigned to the staff of researchers who have been identified in the first part of Article 33 of this Law (a) with no need to be processed. As part of this clause, the past service times of those assigned to the research staff have been spent on the research staff. The Ministry of Finance is in charge of bringing restrictions on the implementation of this clause, setting procedures and foundations. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0067par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0066par0081	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0068par0082	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0066par0083	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0069par0086	Mr. President, this is a matter that once, above all, concerns the National Board of Education, Youth and Sports. It's a revelation that this clause will be dealt with in the context of the Plan and Budget Commission and it will be packed in a bag. Now let's put that aside, and we have to think about what the 77th substance is due to and what problem it will solve in universities, when universities have dozens of problems. The reason this clause was put in the bag is because of the audit reports on Hacettepe University of the Court's presidency. The report underlines not only the University of Hacettepe, but the problems with all universities as well. According to this report, Hacettepe University reported spending over $36m in the temporary balance-over report in 2013. The Court's audit report on the university's 2012 accounts also found that the $60m share sent from the central budget to the education spending of education has been illegally transferred to the return capital budget. The report said that various purchases made by institutional academic and administrative units were not made according to the Public Contraction Act, but were taken from different prices directly and resources were squandered. The Court report states that overpriced medical equipment, which has been purchased at high prices, has been left to rot without using it. Sources are determined not to be used effectively, economically, efficiently and ethically. There are indications that millions of dollars from the central budget to be spent on education are being transferred illegally to return capital budgets. That is why the 77th article was put into the law, and the 77th article was predicted to be paid in debt by the transfer of the higher education institutions to their economic code on the amount which is paid for in return for self-indulgence. With the income provided here, there is an opportunity to buy medicine, medical supplies, and medical equipment. The original purpose of the bill is the opening of university territories, particularly the University of Hacettepe. Even if universities have obtained a resource that they can temporarily pay their debts in these ways, this will not work, only if the existing land is dispossessed, as a result of government and the NGO's funding restrictions on public universities. It is intended to balance its debt-taking relationship with this substance by transferring from one pen to another. It's not a radical solution to the problem, it's a means to an end. As long as the institutions don't use their assigned resources effectively, efficient, legally and rationally, they can't get rid of the expense and debt. Temporarily freeing from debt by transferring resources is a temporary way of managing the situation. The debt problem in universities is structural and institutional. Structural and institutional problems cannot be solved by temporary and superficial measures. There is no long-term solution to saving any institution that has not been programmed to finance itself, has not been directed to use its resources effectively or efficiently. As the problem arises, it's become the ruling party's tradition to develop solutions, to solve problems piece by piece. Colleges face universities with a mentality that avoids the fundamental problems of education. The Justice and Development Party is trying to solve universities' enormous problems by placing them in the AKP. A policy based on loyalty, not opposition to universities, but obedience. In universities where free, unique and free consciences are supposed to be voiced, passive and manual structures have been highlighted. During the AKP, many professors live on the edge of poverty. Aside from the fact that a man in a job with a great ability to think can't live as he thinks, he's no longer able to provide for his daily needs. Most of the teaching staff are unable to track enough scientific activities. Under unsanitary working environments, antidemocratic governments, professors strive to carry out their duties. It is absurd to begin with the question of university from a person, instead of starting with faculty and staff, to begin with measures that will shut down irregularities. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0070par0097	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be replaced in the form of the reference specified in Article 77, dated 4/11/1981, under Article 2547, which stipulates to add temporary substances to the Higher Education Law. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0071par0104	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0070par0105	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0072par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0073par0107	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0070par0108	I'm reading the reason: The aim is to make the text of matter more clear with change. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 78: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "nine equal installments" in Article 78 of the 639 Numbered Bill shall be replaced with "four-thirds equal installments." İdris Bauken Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the first joke of the current 639 Numbered Law Bill, the first article in the box of Article 78 says, "The amount of change in the YI-UFE month is to be calculated based on the rate of change in the month; the lower one will be applied if the interest on these is greater than the interest, interest of delays or delay increases." We offer and offer to add his testimony. Haydar Akar Namik Havutça Free Special Malik Ecder Özdemir Mehmet Ali Sesam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 78 of the current Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Kemalettin Yilmaz Nevzat Korkmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Mustafa Kalaycı In accordance with the provisions of Free Accountant Financial Counseling Act No. 78 (78/6/1989), under the Law on Financial Counseling and Oathed Financial Counseling, the fees imposed on these people in case they pay for the rooms in which they are members of their professions, as well as the actual fees of the rooms, such as the Free Accountant of Turkey's Financial Advisors and the actual loans, which have been paid to the Chamber of Oathed, or, in the case of the loans being paid in twelve equal installments in advance of the month following the release of this law, will be paid by the same amount of interest, or by the actual loans that have been paid at the same time. If the total amount to be paid is paid during the first installment period, the amount to be paid will be reduced by 20%. Those who want to take advantage of this clause must apply to the creditors until the end of the month, following the date when this clause is in effect. If the amount required to be paid under the clause is not in part or fully paid in the amount prescribed in the matter, it is collected according to the provisions of the legislation on whether they will be paid in interest, interest, delay interest, and delay increase. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0074par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0070par0140	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0075par0141	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0070par0142	Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0076par0145	Thank you. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding Article 78 of Bill 639. I salute the House. Dear lawmakers, in the changing world, the main issues are the protection of public interest, the establishment of transparency in society, the establishment of capital, the fairness of revenue and resource distribution, the taking of the share of the value created both as a country and as an individual. In solving these issues, the accounting profession has an important function in establishing both the arrangement of reckoning and providing the necessary communication. Following the Turkish Trade Law arrangement, the Court of Public Accounting and Control Standards was established due to demand for the control size of the accounting profession. As soon as the Public Watch Board was established, the use of 25 years of information and experience of TÜRMOB (TÜRMOB) was desired to share co-operation, but the necessary co-operation in this matter has not been achieved until now. We see that the Public Surveillance Board has taken over functions that have not been left in other countries, rather than on probation, which is the cause of its existence. If we look at its applications around the world, it is known that independent control activity with its primary tasks tend to be a surveillance function, that they operate in cooperation with accounting professionals for support and assistance, that they are not involved in determining the standards of accounting and auditing, that independent control is not separate from the accounting profession, but is the most important part of the accounting profession. The current structure of the Public Surveillance Board, whose main job is surveillance, is contrary to the world's practices. Independent control in Turkey is the work of free accountants, financial advisors and sworn financial advisors, a member of TÜRMOB. Where there's no control, abuses, corruption, and dark deeds take place. The antidote to corruption, abuse, dark deeds is control. The Ministry of Finance must not convert surveillance authority over TÜRMOB into custody and immediately publish regulations adopted by the TÜRMOB General Assembly. For five years, the Ministry of Finance has been waiting for its publication. In addition to education and teaching services, TÜRMOB and its private rooms and its economic enterprises must be excluded from institutional tax and value-appropriation tax. The number of information, declarations and forms requested by the ministry and other institutions has increased. This puts accounting professionals under a great deal of burden. The fourth term's temporary tax return must be removed and the code for the e-bean should be given only to members of the profession. One and two. LU VAT declarations must be combined with joint statements. The declarations and notifications that must be made during the financial holiday must be made by combining the declarations to be made within the following month. In the demands of a professional's cash refund from the blockage, the differences in the memrah are not based on legal basis, based on the costs of their income. This practice must be abandoned. The financial vacation period should not be investigated or audited, the amount of time-related wage tariffs to meet today's needs should be applied, the contracts made by professionals should be excluded from the stamp tax, the value added in free occupational activities should be reduced from 18 per cent to 8 per cent, the event that delivers VAT should be tied to the collection, the arrangements needed to be made by collaborating with TÜRMOB, the free occupation reduction of the job, the social security premium and tax exemption for interns should be provided, the computer and the software must be resolved in order to collect their wages. Recently, tax reviews have been unfairly applied to impose responsibility on members of the profession without proper care. This must be avoided. In the examinations conducted by financial auditers, it must be ensured that the members of the profession are present, that the commendation commissions must be requested in writing, and then the report must be filed before they are appreciated. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to extend my regards to you on Monday for the Day of Ramadan.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0077par0154	Thank you. I submit your motion that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the first joke of the 639 Term Numbered Charter, the first article of Article 78 in the framework, according to this joke, the amount to be calculated on the basis of the YI-UFE monthly change rate; if the interest on these items is greater than the interest, the interest of delays or the increase of delays, the lower one will be applied. Hope Özgümlı (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0078par0161	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0077par0162	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0079par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0077par0164	Umit Özışmiş who wants to speak on the motion, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozgimi.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0080par0166	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. Even if it's tried to hide, hide, be presented under different names, we're up against another Department of Finance, IRS classic, and we're up against a pardon law again. Even if other substances were compressed into the bag law, as a result, there was an emergency action plan in Turkey when the AKP government was first established in government programmes, there was a promise of tax reforming in Turkey, but 12 years later, tax reform, tax reform, tax reform, tax reform is not mentioned, and tax pardons are often taken out in this way, and at times, tax pardons are contested: No, it's not a tax pardon, it's a restructuring. But as a result, the government gave up a certain part of what it was going to get, so that's a pardon, just like the others. There were 47 pardons in the Republic era, six pardons in the AKP administration period, so on average there are amnestys every two years. And during that time, the trader who paid his taxes on time and paid his taxes so as not to be embarrassed, the artist who paid his taxes, the SMEs, every time a pardon comes out, they feel like suckers. And from time to time, it is said that the tax on companies and income tax has been reduced by 5 per cent, 10 per cent. (Dear friends, that's not what matters: this is what matters: that the tax base is expanded and the tax base is spread to the bottom of the tax, especially the burdens on employment, the reduction of the tax, tax and social security institution bonuses, because these are the factors that directly affect the cost. Otherwise, the income tax is 30 percent, it's 25 percent, it's 20, it's not a big deal, especially when the manufacturer, the manufacturer, the exporter's tax reform is going to lower the cost. And yesterday, speaking here, our AKP MP, a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, said that we are missing, for example, an increase in mathematics should come. Dear friends, what is called increase is an immoral offer to a citizen of the state. The government says, "O taxpayer! O ye who believe! You missed last year, the year before, whatever tax you missed last year. You raise me five percent, ten percent, according to the rules of that day, give me a little advantage because he missed, and I won't look at your books from those years again. If you're making a law, you have to enforce it and collect taxes. Now, there are two groups of people here in the face of tax pardons: one of them is people in the area of the SME or agriculture who can't actually collect from time to time because of economic difficulties, who can't pay their taxes. It is natural for them to find a way to pay in times of economic distress, to show them an ease. However, there is another group, who do not pay their taxes and wait for forgiveness every two years. These kinds of laws must have been broken when they came out. For example, no matter what name it was, the taxpayers who took advantage of tax pardons 1, 3, 5, 7 times would have to leave the taxpayers who would benefit for the first time. At least they should have been excluded. At least their discounts should have been kept low, so that the taxpayers at the time would have avoided thinking that they were being fooled. Dear friends, there has been one serious tax reform so far, during the time of then Minister of Finance Zechariah Maziel. It's hard-working, self-control system, all over the floor. But then we don't want the tax, especially in Istanbul. It's been prevented from being implemented by its lobby. In the future, with such artificial measures, pardons, there can be no fair tax arrangement. Instead of such temporary measures, there is a need for a reform that will really expand the tax base, spread the tax base, and thus reduce tax rates. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0081par0173	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "nine equal installments" in Article 78 of the 639 Numbered Bill shall be replaced with "four-thirds equal installments." Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0082par0180	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0081par0181	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0083par0182	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0084par0183	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0081par0184	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with the provisions of Free Accountant Financial Advisory and Under oathd Financial Counsel's Law, dated 1/6/1989, it is only a short period of time that the rooms are due to pay nine installments of the debt, as well as the rooms of the Turkish Free Accountant Financial Advisors and the Oathed Financial Advisors Association. For this reason, this motion aims to increase the number of installments in the repayment of the debt. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. On the 79th article...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0085par0190	Mr. President, we're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0081par0191	There are three motions on Article 79 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 79th edition of the current 639 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Osman Love of Nurettin Canikli See Recep Special Ramazan Can Hilmi Bilgin Hakan Sergeantoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan The signatures of the other motion are: Haydar Akar Namik Havutça Mehmet Ali Sesame Malik Ecder Özdemir Free Special Tanju Özcan Ahmet İhsan Kalkavan Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0086par0211	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0081par0212	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0087par0213	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0088par0214	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0081par0215	I'm having it read. The proposed amendment must be removed from the bill, as the expected amount of contributions are not clearly determined. I'm having him read the other reason. Many articles discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission have been submitted to the bill by violation of the Civil Code and the Constitution. This bill, which is supposed to be about the miners we lost in Soma, should then be added to a large number of non-related substances, the legislative technique, the Civil Code and constitutionally, and subject to a proper legal process. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. Ihsan Kalkavan, Samsun MP, who wants to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0089par0224	Thank you, Mr. President, and I apologize to my friends. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 79th Amendment to the Law and to the Amendment in Article of the Law and Law. I salute you all. But one important thing I want to mention is that because it's up to date, I also want to talk about some of the problems in Samsun's infrastructure. After last week's rains, as you all know, we were about to experience a similar flood of Samsun's floods in 2012, 2013, where many lives and possessions were lost. It is not necessary for Samsun, who surrendered to the flood because of the lack of links to the new vents, bridges, and boxes, to face the same disaster once again. It's because of unsupervised infrastructure. The collapse of the three-year bridge in our district of Salipazarı two years ago, but the fact that the bridge over the same stream was still intact in the 1960s reveals the inadequacies and amateurism of modern work. This would not have happened if it had been done professionally and highly by working with the interests of the work. Every study of infrastructure that has been done without seriousness and inadequacy brings disaster, and after that, it requires doing the same work twice. It's a burden on the government, and it's always played with human life. Roads and State Water Affairs, which deal with the problem, should be warned at some point, and infrastructure must be constantly supervised. Another important problem in Samsun, where municipalism should change is the coastal road project of Samsun Metropolitan Municipality. There's been a natural disaster along the coast of about 30km. I've got some very valuable Samsunn lawmakers here, and they're seeing this very closely, including our Minister. Aside from the destruction of natural beauty, we're also dealing with problems of sea and pollution as all Samsunese. In order to sit on the coast road, fillings are made along the destroyed lane, and beautiful Atacum beaches are filled with rubble and large blocks of rock. If you attempt to do this without doing scientific studies or research, without thinking about the destructions of the sea and nature that could have caused, many lives could still be lost, and our Samsun would be doomed to disaster. My fellow lawmakers, everyone should know that I believe you know that the sea would take back anything taken from it in a year, even if it were a hundred years. I hope that there will be no loss of life in Samsun. Dear President, my dear fellow lawmakers, as to the 79th article I promised to discuss. Article 58 of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges Act of Turkey is about the Council of Foreign Economic Relations. The Ministry of Economics wants to make a change in the last draft of Article 58. The council's budget already includes the contribution of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges in Turkey, its contributions, business councils and sponsors. Now, the Ministry of Economics has added the Turkish Exporters' Parliament, whose short name is TITIM (TIM), to the law as a contributor, such as TOBB. We don't understand why the Foreign Economic Relations Board needs this kind of change when there's no economic shortage. Already Turkey is contributing to the Exporters' Assembly, which is the founding body of the DEA. He can make an additional donation if he wants to. That's what our existing laws allow. WHEN there is no economic problem with the DEA, we do not understand why it is required to be put under an additional burden. This demand is more severe if it comes from the administration of the Turkish Exporters' Assembly, which is TİM. The problems I've just raised about this change are questions worth explaining, and I think they're questions that will please the members of the team. I salute the Grand Assembly with this feeling and thought, and wish you all the best luck of the next holiday.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0090par0233	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, according to the motions adopted, Article 79 has been released from the Commission text. We continue to discuss the existing clauses of the bill so as not to cause any confusion. Article numbers will be identified during the writing of the law. There are three motions on Article 80: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 80 of the current Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Fear Kemalettin Yılmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri The following temporary clause has been added to Law 80-574. "MADDE 18 - Article 18 - Anti-payment, interest due to all of which has not been paid before this clause comes into effect, instead of taking the ferration of its members to the rooms and stock markets due to the rooms and the monthly change rates from the sale of the body and the stock price of the room and the stock markets will be accounted for, as follows the third article, they will receive the full amount of interest due to all of the non-payment loans due to them, the late interest rate, the delay increase, and the amount of the amount of the amount of interest due to these substances will be paid by the period of the period of the period of the period, instead of the period, instead of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, the period of the period of the period, the period, the period, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period If the total amount to be paid is paid during the first installment period, the amount to be paid will be reduced by 20%. In order to benefit from this provision, they must apply to the creditors until the end of the second month, following the date when this clause is in effect. If the amount required to be paid under the clause is not in part or fully paid in the amount prescribed in the matter, it is collected according to the provisions of the legislation on which they will receive the amount of interest, interest, delay interest, and a delay increase. In addition to meeting the terms set in the clause, those in debt who want to benefit from this provision must not prosecute, give up open cases, and not resort to law enforcement. In this scope, the costs of a full-payment hearing and the cost of adjudication and power of attorney are not mutually required. In this article, the YI-UFE monthly change rates represent monthly change rates from 1/1/2014 to 31/12/2004 by the Turkish Statistical Agency (TEFE) total price change rates, the producer price index (UFE) monthly change rates from 1/1/2005, as of 1/1/2014, the domestic manufacturer price index (YI-FE). Instead of being paid according to the provisions of this clause, it is based on the rate of YI-UFE monthly change set for the month the law was issued, as it should be implemented for the month it was published." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the end of the first joke of the Interim 18th Article 5174 with the frame of Article 80 of the 639 Numbered Bill. Haydar Akar Namik Havutça Mehmet Ali Sesame Malik Ecder Özdemir Free Special According to this joke, the amount to be calculated on the basis of YI-UFE monthly change rates; if the interest on these is higher than interest, interest for delays or a delay increase, it will be paid on low prices." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added after the fifth joke of Article 80 of "The Law of the Work Law" and the Amendment to certain Laws. "These clauses are applied for the non-payment of the taxpayers' debts until the end of the taxpayer's duties, even though the taxpayer's taxes have ended due to quitting work or leaving re'sen. After the end of the tax-payment period, the originals of the dues debt are waived from collecting the fer from all its debts," he said. Recep Special Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kabbat Mehmet Erdoğan Halil Mazcıoğlu Shamil Tayyar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0091par0269	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0090par0270	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0092par0271	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0093par0272	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0090par0273	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Despite the end of the taxpayership, there are many members who do not remove or remove room/market records for various reasons. With this arrangement, the debt of the room/market members until the end of the tax-payment period has been structured, while the dues due by which the tax-payment period has ended are completely expunged. Because the member has already left the trade and is not taking advantage of the room/market services by ending the taxpayership. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the end of the first joke of the Interim 18th Article 5174 with the frame of Article 80 of the 639 Numbered Bill. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends According to this joke, the amount to be calculated on the basis of YI-UFE monthly change rates; if the interest on these is higher than interest, interest for delays or a delay increase, it will be paid on low prices." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0094par0282	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0090par0283	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0095par0284	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0090par0285	Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0096par0286	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0090par0287	I'm reading the reason: A delay is under the Law on the Law on Legal Interest and Temerrity, in case the loans of the members of the TOB are not paid, and the share of the rooms and stock markets in the Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges in Turkey are paid. Under this Law, the legal interest rate of 2014 is 9 per cent, according to the General Declaration published in the 28893 Official Gazette, dated January 25, 2014. In some years, this proposal was made for implementation of the lower rate in favour of TOBB members, as the monthly monthly change rate is higher than the monthly legal interest rate. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 80 of the current Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The following temporary clause has been added to Law 80-574. "MADDE 18 - Article 18 - Anti-required due to all of these payments due to interest, tardiness interest due to these laws, the release of their members to the room and stock markets due to the amount of room shares and the monthly change in the exchange fee, and the amount of the rooms and stock markets will be calculated by the price of the room and the stock markets as well as by the amount of payments to the Turkish Chambers and Stocks Association, due to all of them, due to the amount of non-payment interest due to them, late interest rates, or the delay increase, rather than the amount of this clause, will be paid by the amount of the amount of the amount of the month's monthly change of this clause, and they will be paid by the same thing as the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the third period, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, or the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, or the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount If the total amount should be paid during the first payment period, 20% of the amount required to be paid will be reduced. In order to benefit from this provision, they must apply to the creditors until the end of the second month, following the date when this clause is in effect. If the amount required to be paid under the clause is not in part or fully paid in the amount prescribed in the matter, it is collected according to the provisions of the legislation on which they will receive the amount of interest, interest, delay interest, and a delay increase. In addition to meeting the terms set in the clause, those in debt who want to benefit from this provision must not prosecute, give up open cases, and not resort to law enforcement. In this scope, the costs of a full-payment hearing and the cost of adjudication and power of attorney are not mutually required. In this article, the YI-UFE monthly change rates represent monthly change rates from 1/1/2014 to 31/12/2004 by the Turkish Statistical Agency (TEFE) total price change rates, the producer price index (UFE) monthly change rates from 1/1/2005, as of 1/1/2014, the domestic manufacturer price index (YI-FE). Instead of being paid according to the provisions of this clause, it is based on the rate of YI-UFE monthly change set for the month the law was issued, as it should be implemented for the month it was published." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0097par0302	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0090par0303	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0098par0304	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0090par0305	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0099par0308	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The item we're talking about envisions the restructuring of its members' dues to the rooms and stock markets, room shares and stock market registration fees, and the payments of the rooms and stock markets to the TOBB. Because of our country's economic difficulties, industry and businessmen, trade and occupational masters, trade and artists faced serious problems; they were unable to pay their taxes and bonuses on time, and were subjected to high delay rates and delays due to failure to fulfill their obligations. There are serious problems in the economy. Our national industrialist, our manufacturer, is in trouble. Our entrepreneurs, our industry's new investments aside, have become unable to maintain their current investments, the competitiveness is at an end. Many industrialists, businessmen and tradesmen have fallen into debt. There's no collection in the market, there's more executions, there's more bankruptcy. Dear lawmakers, the government, which has been trying to run a development model without producing it for the past 12 years, has brought us as countries, again, to discuss the bill presented as the greatest pardon in history in the General Assembly. This unproducing development model is also expressed by a vice president of the ruling AKP. Mr. Vice President's presentation of "The Future of New Turkey, Economic-Political Vision" includes the findings and dynamics that the Nationalist Movement Party has voiced for years, just like its 2023 targets. The economic accounting of the last 12 years has said in this presentation: "We have attracted global capital by paying high interest in the country over the past 12 years. We've invested incoming resources in skyscrapers, houses and consumer loans. We couldn't satisfy our lack of labor, energy and infrastructure." Then, when we look at the paintings he presented, the 20 per cent of the manufacturing industry in 2002 was reduced to 18 per cent of the illegal domestic product in 2012, 11% of agriculture and forestry in 2002, 9 per cent in 2012, electricity, gas, and water in 2002, to 2 per cent in 2012. The sectors share in loans: Production Industries dropped from 33 per cent in 2002 to 19 per cent in 2012, agriculture and forestry from 8 per cent to 4 per cent. Total loans are also: housing loans from zero to 11 and consumer credits from zero to 12 and individual credit cards from zero to 10 per cent. That's 12 years' accounting in the first hand. Our citizen is in debt due to failed economic policies, but his debt, which is 33 per cent in 2002, has increased to 57 per cent in 2013. And the source of growth is this high debtion rasio. Therefore, the Prime Minister's desire to lower interest rates stems from his desire to re-enchant debt and to revive the construction sector that has come to a standstill. But with this kind of debt, it can make things look good in Turkey's economy. Dear lawmakers, the point in the economy at the end of 12 years is that the debt of families because they can't get along is a Turkey that consumes without producing it. No one should have any doubt that the tax of the ministers' hours from abroad, even those who have covered 15 per cent of the current deficit, will be involved in the thesis of young academics by taking their place in our economic history. Because of the failure of the economy administration, these pardons, which we see as a political investment in the upcoming presidential elections, offend our honest citizen once more by the power, crowning those who failed to do their civic duty to the state. I salute the General Assembly once again by expressing the need to implement economic policies that would reduce our nation's debt requirements instead of penalties, taxes, bonus pardons.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0100par0317	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 81: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to replace the 639 Numbered Bill of Legislatives, which was dated 7/6/2005, in Article 81, which envisions adding temporary material to the Law of Business and Artists No. 5362. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 81 of the Common Code be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Fear Kemalettin Yılmaz Emin Çınar Mesut Dedeoğlu ADADDE 81-7/6/2005, and number 5362, added the following temporary clause to the Trade and Arts Act. The amount of membership in the Union and the federation of the federations they are part of the Union and the federation of the federation of the Union and federation will be paid by all of them, due to interest due to interest, delay interest, delay hikes, or a reduction of interest due to the amount of interest, until the period when this clause is carried out, instead of the amount of money due to the amount of the amount of money due to the amount of money due to the amount of money due to the amount of money, the amount of interest due to the amount of the amount of money due to the amount of the Union and federation, and the amount of debt due to the amount of the third month, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, will be paid by the amount of the amount of interest, or the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest. If the total amount should be paid during the first installment period, 30% of the amount required to be paid will be reduced. In order to benefit from this provision, they must apply to the creditors until the end of the second month, following the date when this clause is in effect. If the amount required to be paid under the clause is not partially or fully paid in the amount prescribed in the matter, it is collected according to the provisions of the legislation on which they will receive the amount of interest, interest, delay interest, and a delay increase. In addition to meeting the terms set in the clause, those in debt who want to benefit from this provision must not prosecute, give up open cases, and not resort to law enforcement. In this scope, the costs of a full-payment hearing and the cost of adjudication and power of attorney are not mutually required. In this article, the YI-UFE monthly change rates represent monthly change rates from 1/1/2014 to 31/12/2004 by the Turkish Statistical Agency (TEFE) total price change rates, the producer price index (UFE) monthly change rates from 1/1/2005, as of 1/1/2014, the domestic manufacturer price index (YI-FE). Instead of being paid according to the provisions of this clause, it is based on the GFE monthly change rate set for the month of which the law was issued, which was set for the month before it was published. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the first joke of the Interim 13 article added to Article 81 and Article 5362 of the current 639 Numbered Bill. Haydar Akar Namik Havutça Mehmet Ali Sesame Malik Ecder Özdemir Free Special According to this joke, the amount of GDP monthly change will be calculated on the basis of the monthly change rate; the lower one will be applied if the interest is higher than interest, delay interest or delay increase. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0101par0349	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0100par0350	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0102par0351	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0100par0352	Engin Altay, Sinop MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0103par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Congressmans, this organ is a law-making organ. The first thing that makes law is that the organ does its work fair and just, no doubt, without question. But sometimes we don't see people who need justice right under our noses, but we try to give justice to people on the other side of the world. Congressmans, I believe there was an arrangement over a year ago, and with this arrangement, the camp's staff in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was committed. If I were to ask you now, if I were to say how many kavas work in this General Assembly, and what are their names, we probably don't know exactly what they are, but we might know them by name, by name. For 28 years, we have had a friend who served us, who served this General Assembly, who served us for eight years, who has served us for six years -- most of whom have served us for six years -- and a friend of ours has served us for two years. Now, I'm asking your consciences on this blessed month: you've been harboring the Kavas staff here for twenty-eight years, is it necessary to give the outside staff to someone who's been doing it?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0104par0359	It's not.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0105par0360	It's not.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0103par0361	Is he right?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0106par0362	It's not.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0107par0363	It's not.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0103par0364	Is it fair?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0108par0365	It's not.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0109par0366	It's not.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0103par0367	I'm also aware that all groups love these friends, and all of us are happy with their services, and that they want to solve this problem, so I'm not saying there's a problem at the ruling party. The members of the ruling party's members of the group, as well as the group's deputy leaders of other opposition parties, want this unfair view to be removed, but it's not enough to ask. Six casts are standing there, and now, they've got two test staffs, they're doing other jobs or they're not doing anything else. When making this law, was it difficult to write this, for two years -- at least two years -- that those who have done this work -- when they are making this arrangement -- to have a one-time automatic staff? If this Parliament cannot afford the bureaucracy of this House, then Parliament cannot solve the problems of this nation. It's a holiday ahead of us, and on behalf of the ruling party, an official has made a commitment that other opposition parties will solve this problem, and he needs to give it to our friends as a holiday gift. Congressmans, I have no doubt that the ruling party will enter into a fair and fair understanding of this matter. Yeah, I think we've done five weeks here at the Plan Budget Commission, and we're doing two weeks -- working the weekends -- and I think we're going to need another day or two -- without meaning to think that both lawmakers and MPs are occupying both the jobs of the parliament and the nation's purses for no reason. We'll take a break in a little while because of the holiday. First, let God accept all fasts, rites, prayers, and good deeds. God will grant them according to the hearts of all people. Those who do not fast and those who cannot hold must also act according to their pure hearts. [[▪ Amen from the AK PARTY]] Yes, but with that, as is every holiday, the Islamic world has cried out again, entering the festival. In Egypt, Syria, Iraq, China, wherever there is persecution, especially Gaza, I ask God to help me, and I pray to God to punish those who oppress them. [[▪ Amen, applause from the AK PARTY]] With these feelings, I congratulate all members of parliament, our entire nation, all Parliamentary employees. I wish the nation the worst day of the holiday, the best holiday. Everything is for this nation, for Turkey. We have a choice ahead of us. We'll go to the polls in peace, in peace. For love, for respect, for unity, I say we will make a good choice for pitch, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0110par0378	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 81 of the Common Code be changed in the following way. Emin Çınar (Castamon) and his friends ADADDE 81-7/6/2005, and number 5362, added the following temporary clause to the Trade and Arts Act. The amount of membership in the Union and the federation of the federations they are part of the Union and the federation of the federation of the Union and federation will be paid by all of them, due to interest due to interest, delay interest, delay hikes, or a reduction of interest due to the amount of interest, until the period when this clause is carried out, instead of the amount of money due to the amount of the amount of money due to the amount of money due to the amount of money due to the amount of money, the amount of interest due to the amount of the amount of money due to the amount of the Union and federation, and the amount of debt due to the amount of the third month, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, will be paid by the amount of the amount of interest, or the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest. If the total amount should be paid during the first installment period, 30% of the amount required to be paid will be reduced. In order to benefit from this provision, they must apply to the creditors until the end of the second month, following the date when this clause is in effect. If the amount required to be paid under the clause is not partially or fully paid in the amount prescribed in the matter, it is collected according to the provisions of the legislation on which they will receive the amount of interest, interest, delay interest, and a delay increase. In addition to meeting the terms set in the clause, those in debt who want to benefit from this provision must not prosecute, give up open cases, and not resort to law enforcement. In this scope, the costs of a full-payment hearing and the cost of adjudication and power of attorney are not mutually required. In this article, the YI-UFE monthly change rates represent monthly change rates from 1/1/2014 to 31/12/2004 by the Turkish Statistical Agency (TEFE) total price change rates, the producer price index (UFE) monthly change rates from 1/1/2005, as of 1/1/2014, the domestic manufacturer price index (YI-FE). Instead of being paid according to the provisions of this clause, it is based on the GFE monthly change rate set for the month of which the law was issued, which was set for the month before it was published. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0111par0391	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0110par0392	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0112par0393	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0110par0394	Emin Çınar, MP of Kastamonu, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Çınar.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0113par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion we've submitted as the National Movement Party Group in Article 81 of Law Bill 639 that we're discussing. I salute your high council. In our country, we have 1 million 546bin 132 tradesmen and 1 million 665bin 668 businesses. As we all know, our tradesmen are one of the most fundamental stones in our economy. Our tradeshops, as we call them, are not just shops that are made of money, but a deep commercial culture that passes from father to son to father, which has a tradition of hundreds of years. In our country today, there is a tradesman's and artists' business, from grocery store to van shop, from restaurant to coffee shop, from real estate to stationery, 488 different professions. Our tradesmen are also important elements of our neighborhood culture. The development of neighbourly relations is one of the most important elements to continue with. In our country, 99 percent of commercial life is made up by our tradesmen. 77% of employment is provided by our tradesmen, 36 per cent of the added value. The lack of adequate support for our tradesmen, lack of adequate funding, social security issues, high tax rates and premium debts, increased internal migrations from provinces to major cities, the change of shopping culture, has also been dealt a major blow to our tradespeople. Recently, our tradesmen have been severely interrupted, especially under the pressure of shopping malls and large markets in large cities. Many tradesmen have been unable to compete by staying in the shadow of giant markets that sell almost all kinds of products, from large shopping malls and food to stationery, from clothing to cosmetics, either shut down or struggle with many challenges. Over the last ten years, for these reasons and so on, our nearly 1.5 million tradesmen have had to close down their businesses. This problem is increasing and needs to be resolved immediately. Dear lawmakers, the bag of law we've been seeing for nearly two months has unfortunately brought no serious solutions to the problems of our tradesmen. Our tradesmen expect the government to take the necessary steps to resolve their problems. Unfortunately, the AKP ignores our tradesmen and expects them to be wiped out of economic life. As the Nationalist Movement Party, if the law proposal for the Order of the Services of the Retail Trade, Shopping Centers, and Great Stores and Our Traders and Artists were brought up in 2008, the problems of many of our small trades today would have been resolved, but the law offer we gave was not even raised by the AKP, and our tradesmen's problems continued. Mr. Prime Minister, at the opening of a major shopping mall in 2010, the grocery store between the streets is now closed. He stated from the malls that the merchants who were damaged from the big markets should solve their problems with NGOs and that they would no longer provide the tradesmen with support. This is a sign of AKP and Prime Minister's love for capitalism. Mr. Prime Minister used his choice to favor the bosses of large capital, not our tradesmen from a hard-earned, hard-earned tradition. Their declarations, their words, and their actions are proof of this situation. It's a big mistake to see our tradesmen as the sole commodity. But our tradesmen aren't just business. Our tradesmen are the greatest elements of socialization and socialization after the family institutions, which address each and every group of individuals as a result of their influence. With this feeling and thought, I look forward to your support for our proposal for a change, and I salute your grand delegation, wishing that the blessed Day of Ramadan, which we will understand on Monday, would be a blessing to the Turkish Islamic world.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0114par0405	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to replace the 639 Numbered Bill of Legislatives, which was dated 7/6/2005, in Article 81, which envisions adding temporary material to the Law of Business and Artists No. 5362. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0115par0412	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0114par0413	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0116par0414	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0117par0415	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0114par0416	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to increase the advantage for members who have paid on time with change. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 82: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 639 Sectional Bill of Law, mentioned in Article 82, shall be changed to 0.1%. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 82nd amendment of the current Law Bill 639 rows be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Don't Fear Özcan Yeniçeri Kemalettin Yılmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı As of the date of which this Law (including this date) has been published (including this date) 13/10/1983, and those who have not had their examinations done in the period of their examinations, until 31/12/2014 (including this date) have to be examined by car examinations (including this date) and by the 35th Article of the Law, and have to be collected for the fraction of 5 per month and from the date of which the Law has been published until the period of the month of which this law (including the month) has been published, the amount of RI-UFE monthly changes are kept by the amount of the amount of car examinations and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of the amount of the amount of amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of the amount of amount of amount of the amount of amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of time, and the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of the amount of time, and the amount of time, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of time (2) There is no rejection or extradition of the amount collected prior to the release of this clause in exchange for the contents of this clause. (3) The term YI-UFE monthly change rates in this article represent monthly change rates from 1/1/2005 each month by Turkey's Statistical Institution, the production price index (UFE) from 1/1/2014 to the national producer price index (YI-UFE). (4) The Finance Ministry is in charge of determining the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The frame of the current 639 Rows Numbered Bill is 82. We propose and propose that the fourth joke of the article be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury are jointly authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0118par0446	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0114par0447	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0119par0448	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0114par0449	Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0120par0452	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Our last meeting before the festival, congratulations to all of you, and to all of our nation, and to all of you, good health and peace. I'd like to make another wish: I'd like to extend to you the knowledge that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from now on, at least after the festival, will not give a bonus to brute force, that we should treat each other with more courtesy. I think it's appropriate that the members of that group, no matter who's applying to the brute force, no matter what group they belong to, at least for the sake of exclusion of that congressman. Mr. Group President, I agree with the wishes expressed by Engin Altay. There was some talk yesterday. We really need to pay attention to education. The Deputy Prime Minister stated that more than 400,000 teachers were appointed during their term and that it was an act of pride. Of course, appointing teachers is a good thing, but the question is that few teachers have been appointed, not many teachers: if they need teachers, they need to be fixed. In 1933, when he visited the Great Ataturk Gaziantep, there were 60 vehicles in Antwerp, only 60 vehicles. Are we going to do that comparison now? We will provide for what we need and continue our activities. Education is nothing compared to anything else. Those who call education expensive should also calculate the cost of ignorance, as a thinker says. Dear friends, what does matter predict? It regulates the restructuring of punishments and other things for the absence of scientific examinations of vehicles. Now, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good. It is being held, but now there are around 56,000 Syrian plates in Gaziantep. How are we going to do the science examinations of these, what kind of punishment are we going to give them if they don't get their science examinations? It's unclear. That's why Gaziantep is miserable. I made a point yesterday, but there was a lack of time. Look, dear friends, the measles has taken its toll. There was nothing wrong with Turkey about polio, and it's re-creating. Hospitals are a mess. The intensive care services are already understaffed, and they've increased since this incident. Of course, Gaziantep is in trouble, but isn't the Syrian? So does the Syrian. I gave an example yesterday, so let's continue with the example. See, there's a report from the Human Rights Association that says that an adult Syrian is employed without social security in hard work with $100 a week. These people have to work socially unsecuredly. Some employers use them as cheap labor resources. Gene, in another chapter, who knows that even in the central parts of the city, Suburcu, Greenwater, Centipede, 3-5 years old, with no shoes, with no clothes on, with burns on their faces, they're in our daily lives. Look, we're going to the festival, dear friends. ▪ Trash containers, now widely used by Syrians, are now used as a busy living or even food source for collecting recycleable materials such as paper, metal, plastic, and low-income laborers. Only 1 or 2 people are mixing a pre-war dumpster during the day, while at least 10 people are currently mixing the dumpster. This is the situation, dear friends, this is the situation. There's no need to deceive each other, there's no need to sweep the truth under the carpet. First, what needs to be done is to build a camp that is capable of harboring Syrians who are currently not in the camps, to provide for their human lives, at least their minimum needs, and to transport the camps there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is also necessary for the welfare of our country. Once again, I congratulate you all on your holiday, with all due respect, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0121par0466	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 82nd amendment of the current Law Bill 639 rows be changed in the following way. S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends As of the date of which this Law (including this date) has been published (including this date) 13/10/1983, and those who have not had their examinations done in the period of their examinations, until 31/12/2014 (including this date) have to be examined by car examinations (including this date) and by the 35th Article of the Law, and have to be collected for the fraction of 5 per month and from the date of which the Law has been published until the period of the month of which this law (including the month) has been published, the amount of RI-UFE monthly changes are kept by the amount of the amount of car examinations and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of the amount of the amount of amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of the amount of amount of amount of the amount of amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of time, and the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of the amount of time, and the amount of time, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of time (2) In exchange for the contents of this clause, the amount collected prior to the release of this clause does not be rejected or extradited. (3) The term YI-UFE monthly change rates in this article represent monthly change rates from 1/1/2005 each month by Turkey's Statistical Institution, the production price index (UFE) from 1/1/2014 to the national producer price index (YI-UFE). (4) The Finance Ministry is in charge of determining the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0122par0476	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0121par0477	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0123par0478	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0121par0479	Anybody want a word on the motion? Mr. Tin Man...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0124par0480	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0121par0481	I'm reading the motive... Based on the provisions of this clause in the second joke," the article text is simplified by subtracting from the article text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 639 Sectional Bill of Law, mentioned in Article 82, shall be changed to 0.1%. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0125par0490	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0121par0491	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0126par0492	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0121par0493	I'm reading the reason: For those who have not been able to get their inspections done in time through the change, it is intended to allow them to pay the amount calculated by using a 0.1% monthly rate per month, provided they are delayed in the examination until 31/12/2014. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0127par0501	Mr. President, thank you. We've come to the last days of Mubarak Ramazan, today we've come to realize the last Friday of Ramazan, and hopefully Sunday we'll catch our last fast and hope that we'll reach the festival on Monday. My Lord will bless all men and Muslims with the feast on Monday, if God wills, for a month's service to our fellow believers. For this feast, I hope that the persecution of Muslims, whether in Gaza, or in various parts of the world, will be removed, by God's grace, for the face of the fasts, for the sake of our prayers, for the sake of these prayers. Congratulations on the blessed Day of Ramadan of all our fellow MPs, the Islamic world. I congratulate you all on the blessed Day of Ramadan, with his family, with his wife, with his friends, with his joy, in peace, with many Ramadan festivals. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit02spe0128par0507	Thank you. Mr. President, we are about to complete the holy month of Ramazan. Next week, we will take a brief recess from our work due to Ramadan Day. I already celebrate the Festival of Ramadan, wishing you all a healthy and peaceful holiday. On this occasion, we would like to thank all the lawmakers, the vice presidents of our party groups, the presidents of the merger, the clerks, the executive members and the government members, who have been given the opportunity to work together in the activities we have carried out so far, and to contribute and participate in the hard hours we have spent together in Ramadan. I also share with the executive secretary-in-chief and executive executives of our executive agency, who support our work through legislation, administrative and technical services, the executives and executives of all parties, the Laws and Decisions Presidents who provide close support to the Court, the stenographers who record our words, the stenographers, the staff who run the technical system at the General Assembly, the technical staff who are constantly working on our demands, the advisors and secretaries we work for, the consultants and staff of all parties, the members of our parties, the members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the television staff, who provide their health workers with self-responsoration, the protection staff, the staff, and the staff who offer them their services, and the staff who provide them with their fine food and coffee, and staff, and the staff who provide them with our tea, and staff, and the staff, and the staff of our staff who are working staff, and all. I wish everyone a good, healthy, peaceful holiday again. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-25sit03spe0128par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 126th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Human Rights Review Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are part of the 5th agenda, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the disabled. Commission? No. It's been postponed. It is 15 p.m. on Thursday (July 31st) to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
