tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Diyarbakir MP Deliberate Friday, who wants to talk about humanitarian issues in Syria, Palestine and East Turkistan. Here you go, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, good lawmakers, salute East Turkistan, one of the places where mankind's honor has been down since 1949. All hail the land of Palestine, which cowards have occupied and persecuted since 1946, and which brave men have oppressed, and whose lives they have brought to bear witness, who fought, and who conquered our first qiblah, Salahaddin Eyubî. Since 2011 in the Hama massacre in 1982, welcome to Kurds, Turks, Arabs, and Kurds who have fought for freedom, who have asked for the account of the people who had been slaughtered in the Hama massacre in Sincar, in Damascus, in Guta, in Kobani, and in ISIS. Peace be upon those who were burned alive by Buddhists in Myanmar. In Central Africa, they are slaughtered with crosses attached to their necks. Peace be upon those who do not submit themselves to the wrong-doers. Since 1949, 35 million people have been slaughtered by communist Chinese. The Muslim Turks still live in East Turkistan are being genocided. This genocide, the world remains silent as always. When I look at East Turkistan, I see the history of the Kurds. The Uygur Turks are like the Kurds before the AK PARTY rule: genocides, migration, torture, unsolved murders, executions and atrocities every day. As a Kurd, we understand them best. Only this year 260 Uygur Turks were shot to death. 300 people are under arrest in Thailand, and if these are returned, they will be shot. Three thousand were recently killed in Kashgar. The terrorist government in Israel continues to attack our honor, our religion. Our first qiblah was when they attacked the Masjid al-Aqsa, and forbade prayer, and were unable to keep up their senses, and they set foot in the places where we prostrated with their unclean feet. O cruel conquistadors, those who attacked the Masjidi Aksa. Make up your minds, it's a war on us. O ye wrong-doers! While you attack our mosques, we slap you by repairing your places of worship. We don't have a fight with religions. If you have not learned about mankind from Salahaddin Ayyubî Al-Kürdi, you can still learn from us who are his descendants. In Syria, the war of the sect continues and mankind's honor is being killed. We've been the only country in three years to have two million guests, to spend five billion dollars, to send aid supplies to the Kurds in Syria, to treat the sick, wounded, to pass through the javelins, without saying religion, language, race and sect, to embrace everyone. The more accurate it is to help Turkishmen who live in Syria because of their relationship and historical ties, the more accurate it is to help the Kurds in Syria and Kobani. All those living in New Turkey are related to those on the other side of the world, all of us. Remember in Syria, the people are the only ones who are ancient. The blood of oppressed people flows more and more over the world's geography every year. The Antichrists, the Dekis, are more ruthless every day, and they're not satisfied with drinking blood. While the number of countries that have committed terrorism by the hands of the state is increasing, those who can't get a taste of humanity enjoy watching it. O earth that is silent in this state, O day after day, those who watch the screens and remain silent, those who have no love, nor peace! Wait, we're not dead yet; there's the AK PARTI, the white staff and Turkey, the feared dream of the oppressors, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Mr. Prime Minister Professor Ahmet Davutoglu. With God in our hearts, the Qur'an in our tongues, the sword of the Lord Ali (RA) in our hands, we will be as humble as the elf against the oppressors until the sun rises from the west, our reference to the Prophet.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Heartfelt. The second non-responsored statement is from Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı, who wants to talk about the mining disaster in Ermenek district and the condition of the families. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the mining disaster and the condition of the families in Ermenek. I salute you all. Even after 30 days, the dead bodies of 10 of our 18 miners who were buried in the disaster in Ermenek, on October 28, 2014, were still unreachable to eight of our brothers. First and once again, I wish God's mercy to our mine martyrs, to their families, and to their relatives, patience and condolences. The investigation launched by Ermenek Public Prosecutor's Office on this disaster has led to the arrest of eight members of the licensed and operating firms on charge of causing the death, and five of whom have been arrested by the court. The government, who is the chief of the disaster, gives the word away, and he doesn't take it lightly. The ministers blame him, complain to others, suffer. What would a citizen do if the ministers were in trouble? Who's been running this country for 12 years? Why do political officials stay French? The Minister of Labour said he should not have been granted a permit, 50 people interrupt when he wants to close the mines. The Minister of Energy says that they approached 6-7 metres from the old furnace, which is a clear mistake. Dear friends, let alone approach, there are so many unplanned excavations for a handful of extra coal that the workers of different businesses meet each other underground. That's the painting there, that's the truth. They're the Minister, but they don't look at it in time, so of course they don't. Who licensed that mine, who authorized it? Who lets production be made next to a water-filled stove? Who doesn't run the design map, who does? Who's supposed to supervise the mine, who's not? There's always a question of who, but there's no one there. I'm asking the irresponsible, the cheeky, if it's the duty of the Karaman folk games team to oversee the mines, to secure their safety, to improve their working conditions. You're always ahead when it comes to heights and gizzards. Mr. Prime Minister, stop with the waxed words and answer me. After all, he's the head of the government. As for the word, we are in charge of the lamb at the edge of the furnace. Let the mothers of Ermenek pay first. They have new palaces, new government vehicles, new government planes, but their toilet is outside, living in a two-bedroom house, unable to buy shoes for no money, can't get their teeth fixed, and Uncle Recep, a martyr who can't get his teeth fixed, has 11 lira black tires and $140 salary. This is the new Turkish Republic of the AKP. Turns out it's not Uncle Recep's black tire that's been torn, it's the crackling artery of those who've been running the country for 12 years. See, if the price of a quadrillion liras spent on new aircraft and a thousand-bedroom runaway palace was spent in the region, the mines would be secured in Ermenekli, Prime Minister, Sarıveli, Bozırlı, Diledemlı and Tashkentlı would end their unemployment, poverty, and poverty. You have poured out billions to the allies, to the PKK, to the confederates, to the Syrians, but you have not looked back upon the brave and noble people of the Toros. Because the honorable people of Toros, whether they are hungry or open, will never rebel and betray their government. Indeed, they are patient, and they pray for the land, and for the flag, and for the state; they give thanks to Allah their Lord; and when they are patient, they know that they must answer to the treacherous and the thieves. Dear AKP lawmakers, tell Mr. Prime Minister that families who lost relatives in the Ermenek disaster are not considered martyrs like our wives and children in Soma? Yes, the rights given by the Soma martyrs by the bag of laws must also be given to the mine martyrs in Ermenek. As the National Movement Party, we have submitted to the Parliamentary Presidency our proposal for the removal of the premium debts of our mineral martyrs, the removal of the requirements for the monthly commitment of their parents, widows and orphans, to give one of their relatives the right to work in public, to allocate legal property to their legal heirs. We're waiting for backup, we're waiting for justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova, who asked for word on the olive harvest period. Here you are, Mr. Akova.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0006par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with love and respect. The new harvest of yellow golden olives has begun. Because of the harvest period, we are now in session with harvest events of the Lawn and the Kingdom Chamber of Commerce. We offer our love and respect to our olive man, to our farmer, to our peasant, to the new harvest season. The harvest is as difficult as it's always been. Dear friends, these olives, which look like paintings with calluses, are collected one by one, and the harvest of olives is winter months, and it's always really hard. For him, as Necati Friday said, the olive man's trouble is not over, but his hope is not. Each year, the oliver suffers from the height of his costs and the lack of state support, but he does not give up hope. We may not have had enough income at this time, but in the next term, we will collect our olives with better conditions. Respected MPs, olives are life. If one day life is possible to be extended, we believe it will be the essence of the olive core. Because to defend the olive is to defend life, to defend life, to defend peace. We always say the olive tree is immortal, the first of the trees. Olives are a strategic product in the world and Turkey. The olive shop has a lot of problems -- low internal consumption, high costs, geographical marking, storage, and not enough oil for the EU. The consumption of olive oil in Turkey is 1.5-2 litres, reaching up to 14 litres in the European Union. You all know very well that in Mediterranean countries, the secret of long life, or rather the secret of healthy life, is medically accepted today as olive oil and olive oil. Even in England, olive oil -- we know -- is sold in small bottles in pharmacies. We say our olive man never gives up hope, but the olive man has a problem, he expects the government, he says: "The government is not given enough support, the costs are high, we want state support for the olives, we don't get enough support from the illegal national product, so we want the voice of the olive maker to be heard." As you can see, we've been burned inside, we've been sizzling -- 6,000 olive trees have been rooted in one night. The olive groves that were rooted in these olive trees were sad to make their harvest. Olives are abundant. The olive tree produces plates, bowls, spoons, firewood, wood; its fruit produces green olives, broken olives, black olives; its core is made of beads, bracelets, ornaments; its oil is made of soap; it is used for fertilizer and fuel. We always say that olives are a blessing. Dear lawmakers, with olivery, 10 million people live directly, and indirectly 500,000 families die from olivery. However, a amendment is being made to the Law on the Insemination of Olives and Wilds still pending in the Commission. This is the olive man's death sentence. In our Bay of Olives, I've been an oliver for four generations. He says, "Sezai Madra of Ayvallı, our grandfathers, our great-grandfathers, seven generations of olives, our livelihood is olives." He says, "We don't have any other livelihood, we know olives, we speak olives, we say olives, we say olives, even in our species." Again, my brother collects olives, every night, how many crews, how many people have gone, how many sacks of olives have he collected, how much it costs, what we've done, what we've gotten. Our livelihood is olives. So I went a lot in my day, picked up olives, took my candy, took my cheese... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I got my bread, we went with our crew. Dear friends, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Akova. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In search of the basic causes of poverty in Turkey, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine measures to be taken to cover the needs of all citizens living under the age of hunger, poverty. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Pain]] October 17th, the world is known as the War on Poverty Day every year. Thousands of people have to live on $1 a day in Turkey, where poverty is growing. The most important factor among the main causes of poverty is unemployment. At the same time, the price of all public services, including health, education, with low wages, inflation, and most importantly the loss of social understanding, is one of the main reasons for the size of poverty in Turkey. According to TÜİK's 2011 search for income and living conditions, the poverty rate in Turkey was 16.1 per cent. According to this rate, there are 11 million 670,000 poor people in Turkey. As the number of poor is determined, the spending limit of $678 per month has been accepted. According to the study of labour unions, the hunger limit of a family of four is 949,14; the poverty limit is $3,091. In 2008, the population at risk of poverty or financial deprivation was 65.7 per cent, which was estimated at 62.5 per cent for 2011. The rate of fiscal deprivation, defined as the proportion of the population facing serious financial difficulties and defined at least 4 of the nine articles determined to be unable to meet or deny, was estimated at 63 per cent in 2009 and 66.6% in 2010, at 60.4% in 2011. In Turkey, a large number of society's basic needs, such as food, drink, shelter, and clothing, are under very difficult conditions. Millions of our citizens have become unable to meet their most basic needs. Economic policies, political problems, political problems-related migrations, economic crises increase the inequality of income between communities. Expenses from the budget, especially under security spending, increased tax and raise rates of the budget deficit of these expenditures, increase the number of citizens living on the edge of hunger and poverty. The current widespread revenue distribution in Turkey cannot produce a serious policy to compensate for its inequality. The fight against poverty cannot be transformed into a comprehensive and methodical struggle. Instead of dealing directly with poverty, political power is on the way to finding temporary solutions through the efforts of local governments and NGOs. The fight against poverty will result in significant results, with the political commitment of the state and with the means to a permanent solution. The search for jobs of poor citizens, the effort to bring home bread, sometimes causing great tragedies. Many citizens in Turkey are dying of poverty. Poverty is not only economical, but psychologically, it has serious negative effects in a large part of society. There is no healthy information on the number of citizens living on the border of hunger and poverty in Turkey. But the fact is, it's known that there's a poor population that's way over the number of TİKs. For this reason, Turkey must be mapped with hunger or poverty; serious and permanent measures must be taken by identifying all the poor people living in cities, villages, towns, towns, and streets. In view of all of this, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation into the General Assembly to determine the measures to combat poverty. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In view of the number of arsenic detected in the Sea of Marmara, the reasons for sea pollution, which has become a serious risk, the way that marine life is affected, the most important reason for this pollution, the control of coastal pollution, is that all elements that have caused sea pollution throughout Turkey should be identified, and we will provide public sharing of its effects on public health, in order to determine permanent measures to prevent marine pollution. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The study, which includes professors at İstanbul University (Ü) has noted coastal pollution as part of the Namik Kemal University (NKO) Scientific Research Project. In this study, the arsenic rates were higher than their normal values during a survey of marine life in Marmara. This means that arsenic was detected in the Sea of Marmara. Studies have stressed that marine products such as clams, oysters, lobsters, or shrimp, which live in the water environment, such as heavy metals, hormones, oil derivatives, pollutants, such as pollutants, have been used to track chemicals in the environment, causing various diseases. As part of the study, "the heavy metal levels of shrimp collected from the coastal waters of Tekirdağ and the toxic effects of human health" have been monitored seasonally for a year in the edible flesh of clams and shrimp, including lead, chromium, nickel. In shrimp samples, a kilogram of 2.3 in kilograms and a clam of 2.79 milligrams worth of arsenic. In Turkey, it has also been noted that the acceptable value for arsenic in shrimp and clams is 1 milligram in kilograms, which has long been a threat to human health, causing many diseases, such as cancer and neurological disorders, when taken by means of water, food, or air. Experts who did the research said that there should be more work under the control of pollution around the Sea of Marmara, and that "The Research Centre for Public Pollution" should be established to control the effects of chemicals to the sea by Tekirdağ. As far as research is concerned, the negative effects of domestic, industrial and agricultural pollutants are growing, as well as the increase in population. As a result, heavy metals and chemicals that are stored in the living are clearly threatening public health. Therefore, the risk must be contained. Thus, research has also shown that any work that has been done for this purpose should be supported. In this sense, all coasts must be controlled and prevent sea pollution, especially the pollution surrounding the Sea of Marmara. To this end, the establishment of the Research Centre for Pollution becomes inevitable. In order for this centre's necessity to be established clearly, a search must be conducted on all shores, and the public must be informed in detail of the results of the impact of marine life, health and certainty. To this end, we offer the approval of the General Assembly to set up a research commission. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The prison hunger strike, which began on 12/9/2012 and includes two political demands, has now covered dozens of prisons, over 300 prisoners on hunger strike, and the strike has entered its 37th day. The prisoners' hunger strike has reached the limit of life-threatening. In order to prevent death and permanent health problems, I respectfully submit to the opening of the Parliament's investigation into the health problems caused by hunger strikes in prisoners under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and the Civil Code. The right to education and defence in the native language is at the top of emergency problems facing a solution to the country's agenda. As of today, 8,000 prisoners have been on trial for more than three years under investigations called ▪KCK (KCK) and the process of trial is blocked due to the rejection of defence demands and even the fact that they are ignored in the main language. Another legal problem is that Mr. Abdullah Ocalan is not allowed to talk to his lawyers for no legal reason or reason. During that time, Mr. Ocalan, who had only been interviewed to his family, was isolated in Imralı Island. Hundreds of prisoners in prisons have been forced to place their bodies in hunger and death, after both education and defence in the main language and the removal of legal applications on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, ignoring the efforts of NGOs, ignoring our demands on the roof of parliament. The only cure for prisoners who can't find a way to get political authorities to accept their most human demands is to turn their bodies into an instrument of action. In the end, it's a reaction to make your own body an exit point for the person who seeks justice, freedom, and honorable life, but can move on all the roads and roads that are blocked between four walls. That is why there have been many hunger strikes in our country, especially after the September 12th conflict, by political and political prisoners. In 1996, a total of 2,174 prisoners in nearly 43 prisons in the country, and 355 prisoners participated in a hunger strike and 12 prisoners lost their lives and dozens of prisoners faced hunger-related health problems to protest the district known as the May General Assembly of Justice Mehmet Agar. The next hunger strike began at the same time in many prisons on October 20, 2000. The hunger strike launched by 816 prisoners turned into a death fast about a month later. During the 1996s and 2000s, many prisoners suffered from hunger sickness, particularly Wernicke Korsakoff syndrome. In 2002, more than 200 political criminals were released by President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, who took advantage of pardons due to health problems. The body damage caused by the hunger strike was scientifically explained as follows: Hunger causes severe body destruction as a result of the lack of materials needed for the body's functioning, resulting in serious consequences such as death. Wernicke Korsakoff's syndrome can be seen as a result of a lack of Tiamine vitamins. After seventy-two hours, they ran out of glycogens. If there's not enough fluid intake, the person dies in a few days due to dehydration. The hunger period can be divided into the first 24 hours, 24-seven two hours and then into the period. In the first 24 hours, glycogen tanks in the liver are used as an energy source. In twenty-four-seven hours, surrounding tissues use oil acid as an energy source instead of glucose. After seventy-two hours, glycogen deposits are exhausted, and only fatty acids and proteins are used for energy production. The body's resistance to immune infections is reduced, and serious infections can go up to the sepsis. There could be severe neurological problems leading to confusion and coma. The first week is usually 5 to 10 per cent loss, and it can reach 35 to 50 per cent in later periods. Patients may die due to cardiac causes due to long-term hunger, although there was no prior cardiac problems. In order to prevent death and destruction in the body, the health problems caused by hunger strikes need to be investigated. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday 27/11/2014 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 17 November 2014, Mardin MP Erol Dora and his friends (1032 rows no. lu) The parliamentary survey motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate the contents of textbooks, one of the most important components of the education system in Turkey, has been suggested to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and read in presentations Thursday (27/11/2014) and held in the same dated combination of talks. The first speaker in favour of Peoples' Democratic Party group proposal is Mr. Erol Dora, Mardin MP
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0008par0195	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the basis of the first, central and basic rights and freedoms of textbooks that are being studied in the Ministry of National Education in Turkey, on behalf of the first, middle and high schools, on the basis of our citizens' proposal for a comprehensive analysis of the quality of the subject, the quality of acceptance and the quantity of the subject. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, through textbooks, it is possible to discuss the boundaries of formal rhetoric in a country, power relations in the country, the relationship between education and democratisation or social conflict. In this context, the concept of national identity fiction in Turkey and the concept of domesticity must be subject to comprehensive analysis within the framework of basic rights and freedoms. Dear lawmakers, textbooks can contribute to the expansion of fundamental rights and freedoms in a country, the enrichment of students' perspectives and social peace, or, in reverse, they can increase social conflicts and inequality, rather than solutions, as well as problems. Precious lawmakers, the understanding of the study books in Turkey's textbooks, the study reports on the subject, also show very clearly that the textbooks that were taught in Turkey are written with an understanding that singles and sterilises children's perspectives, and are clearly far from developing a pluralistic perspective and a sense of democratic citizenship. In this framework, Turkey is often one of the most important problems of the education system, and in private, textbooks, without developing a system and horizon to allow people who are different from the language of Turkish and religion of Sunni Islam to live together on the basis of equal citizenship. In Turkey, which is quickly social and political, textbooks need to be focused and studied. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, Turkey is trying to solve its ancient problems and develop a new social contract with its initiative to build a new constitution, with its resolution and peace process, and with its opening policies for different parts. Because as in many different countries, the current national paradigm and the educational system produced by this paradigm no longer meet the demands of different ethnic and religious groups in Turkey. Meanwhile, the Kurds, whose assets have been denied for years, question existing political practices and demand equal citizenship. Also, the Alevis, Armenians, Serbians, Roma, women, and many ethnic, religious and collective communities that we cannot count have more problems and demand equality from day to day. One of the main areas of combat where these demands are concrete is education. For example, one of the basic demands in the Kurdish problem is focused on education in the native language. In addition, the Alevis oppose mandatory religious lessons within the framework of equal citizenship and universal freedom of faith. It turns out that they were encoded in the education system, while many of our Armenians, Greek, and Suryanian citizens are struggling with continuous discrimination, they are concerned about getting their children a qualified education to pass on their own language and culture. Dear MPs, who have tried to solve the Kurdish problem, including Kurdish, Abazaca, Adiight and Lazca, who have chosen the language... It is clear that education and education in Turkey, where problems of Alevis and minorities are on the agenda, are not possible to continue with a national sense of education that excludes differences. Therefore, there is also the need for a dynamic, universal, law and academic audience to monitor textbooks and to develop the understanding of equal citizenship in Turkey. In this sense, the Board of Education is not only functioning, but its name is behind our time. The concept of instruction and discipline does not correspond to modern education systems. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, hundreds of examples of segregating and aberrant rhetoric found in textbooks, are clearly available in this current report on screenings of textbooks as part of the human rights project. I'd like to introduce this for those who are curious. I'd like to mention a couple of examples in particular: 2013-2014, in the 10th grade history books of education and teaching, when the Armenians were being hinted at, they rose up against the Ottomans, and they became tools to Western interests for prosperity. Such false, segregation and historical facts were used. Likewise, this year -- the 2014-2015 education and teaching year -- the 10th grade history books seem to have made some changes to the so-called Suryans, but the majority of Christian people, especially Armenians, continue to appear to be part of the policies of the Western states. Again, according to this report, in all textbooks, the word "Kurdish" passes only twice, and it can be included in the expression "Kurdish Teali Society" under the title "Hard Society." Mr. President, dear lawmakers, religion culture and morality are again taught in the 8th grade textbook, 5 of the 6 units teach Islamic religion. In the 6th unit, titled "Hears and Universal Counsel", Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, and Christianity are mentioned in six pages and re-acquired into Islam, especially given false information about Judaism and Christianity. Religious culture and morality textbooks study both Judaism and Christianity through Islam. There's now a recovery compared to 2007, but in the book of 1.086 pages of religion that a student reads for nine years, there's 16 pages of Bektashim, that's 1.5 percent. Only in the 7th and 12th grade, this Alevilik is presented as a folkloric branch of circumcision. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Prime Minister Davutoglu, said during his visit to Hadjibektas: "If any religion is being treated with these lessons, if any religion is getting worse, let's remove these lessons. Of course, that statement is positive, but it's not enough. Because in the textbooks, it is also illegal for an ethnic structure or belief to be explicitly investigated, as well as not enough of the different beliefs and ethnic identities that live in our country, to be ignored, or to be defined by the look of ethnic and religious majority, and to be incompatible with the principle of equal citizenship. Dear lawmakers, establishing the principle of equality at the level of law alone does not make social peace possible because a lasting social peace is possible by raising children, young people, citizens, who believe in equality among groups, multidigits and pluralistics. Thus, with legal reforms, a social perspective and a new understanding of collective identity must be developed so that different groups can live peacefully together. In this regard, peace, equal citizenship, respect for different identities, a key part of raising individuals and citizens who absorb universal values is the education system and textbooks. Mr. President, in the process of Turkey's transitioning solution and peace, I expect the support of the society's textbooks -- a mirror of common memory and knowledge -- universal human rights standards, pluralism, and social peace -- from the angles of the textbooks that have been read throughout their lifetime -- to be single, outnumbered, disassociated, disparatory, offensive rhetoric and styles, and in this direction, to contribute to the legal proposal of the society's collective collection of memory and knowledge, to make legal references to the basis of scientific, democratic and liberal principles in the rewriting of textbooks.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0009par0207	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The first speaker against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is İstanbul MP Halide İncekara. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0010par0211	Yes, your precious ready, I salute you all with respect and love. I have received a pledge on a motion to investigate the contents of the textbooks provided by the HDP Group. I've read your alibi, and the motive is well-prepared. I wish it hadn't happened again, the segregated statements that were compressed into the motive. But it's not an ulterior motive. So we all actually have to build on separating the habits of years above us and whether we want to or not to put them together in our language. Maybe that's not what we're saying, but I'm afraid that's what's happening. First of all, I said to the Ministry of National Education, how do I prepare a book, a curriculum? I said, "If there's anything other than what we know, let's share it. I'd like to share it with you both. How do you prepare a book, how do you write a book? Because the last time I was studying sociology with my high school daughter, Mom, I don't understand this book. She said, really, I read it, and I didn't understand it either. Why don't I get it? Because the language, the length of the sentence, the paragraphs, required me to divide it into several paragraphs. I returned, I spoke to the Ministry, and I said, "I need to make it shorter, more understandable. I wondered at that stage how to prepare a book and its contents." Now, there's an update of the programs, so within the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education is starting to draft textbooks based on the design of a program with academics, teachers, students, guardians, representatives of the NGO, and according to this program. Some of the textbooks were printed by the Ministry himself, while some of the books suggested from the outside were purchased through a tender. So, what are the procedures for preparing a textbook? The lesson is to include the education and teaching program. According to the lesson's feature, the unit, the section, is to set a balance in line with the theme content. In the course of matters, it is understood in accordance with the level and developmental characteristics of the student, the conditions that continue to be used in a simple language. So, how do you do these things? So in order for a book to get in front of a child, what merchales does it have to go through? Six teachers are selected by chance among teachers who are trained to be registered in the system, and the recommended books are sent to them, read by them, and their reports are returned to the Ministry of National Education. Then, as a result of the analysis of these six teachers who don't know each other, a book has been corrected, proposed and auctioned, and published. And what criteria are these teachers reviewing the textbook? 1) They examine the Constitution and the law of content. 2) They study the scientific competence of content. 3) They assess three criteria, including the competence of content, education and education programme to carry out its achievements, the ability to support learning of visual design and content design and the availability of students' development. In reviewing and reviewing textbooks, the segregator in books is based on the following criteria for decoding content and visualization of some of its values and beliefs: The draft textbooks are prepared in an approach to the Constitution and the National Education Basic Law, which is clearly judged by the principle of equality, which supports basic human rights and freedoms and rejects any discrimination. The principle of communityism, equality is observed in the process or in the presentation of human beings and events with examples. The content and visual elements do not have elements that violate individuals' rights and freedoms. Statements that violate human rights, discrimination and prejudice cannot be used. The individual names used in the draft textbook are balancedly selected from the names used in society as a principle of equality and generality. It can't be used to represent only a certain segment of society. In examples given and in characters used, a reasonable gender balance is observed. The narrative, visual elements and drawings reflect the values of society, clothing, and lifestyle correctly. It does not include statements that might humiliate or prejudice a part of society, political opinion, or the way it thinks. Can such principles still reflect the philosophy that everyone desires, the spirit, on the street? Can he really create a culture of living with people who are not like him, who are not themselves? But I'll tell you this: the luxury of solving our global problems for centuries in a few years is not within the power and power of any of us. Even if we change our languages and minds, we're not allowed to reflect them on our behavior. Human beings love to live divided and divided, and I think it's also the responsibility of politics to manage our entire educational system in the same consciousness, the same love, tolerance, and equal rights and law, by dissolution, by uniting the human beings who love to live apart, by falling apart. But, friends, we can't go on with our lives talking about evil and evil with a very dark painting. Instead of discussing the elements of discrimination, the lines in the textbooks, we have come to this day from a burning country. From a society where one neighbor is hostile to another, he's come to this day and we're talking about building tomorrow together. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I just want to say that it's a debt of all of us, for those of us who are above 40, who have an Ottoman balance, their manners, culture, language, philosophy, a lot of mothers, tradition, new people of the new Turkey and the new world, but for those of us who are above 40, the language we use may be very meaningful to those who are above 40, and it might be very pleasing to each other, but it's very important for an 18-year-old girl who is with you to make a new segregation in the mind of a teenager, because we've been talking so much peace and discrimination that we've started to argue about the word of peace and discrimination itself because our children should not be the cause of discrimination itself, if we've started to fight our children. We shouldn't be constantly producing rancour and hate speech in history. What do we do with blood feuds in Anatolia? Foods are prepared for the reconciliation of the families, sitting at the head of the table, prayers are made, right? What is it that we're trying to do in the street is we're trying to recreate the feuds that we're trying to end by putting them back in political language, again, again, again, in front of us? Yes, we'll know the sufferings, sorrows, malfunctions, we'll talk about them, but how does a 6-year-old, 8-year-old, 10-year-old, 22-year-old boy feel when he hears that word every time we talk, every time he's on tape? I think it's necessary for him to organize himself in a way that does not cause any other discrimination in young consciousness.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0011par0233	How is discrimination a concept of democracy? Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0010par0234	And I just asked him, he's got, like, 3,000 research motions. The research commission is one of the most important of the audit activities, but the research commission is not a place to get a role from ministries, institutions and laws, so let's sit down and do what the National Education is going to do, and we'll sit down and do what the defense will do, and if we try to set up all these research commissions that we want, we can't make Parliament work once. For him, the Commission on Violence Against Women was established the other day -- it is the place for the research commission to discuss the results of matters that concern every member of the community -- to discuss the philosophy, but not to take part and duty from the ministries. However, I am very appreciative of the violence in the street, the burning of the school, the sensitivity of the word in the class, with which I offer my love and respect to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0012par0237	Thank you. In favour of the group proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party, Mr. Ali Haydar Öner, MP of Isparta, will speak secondly. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0013par0241	Mr. President, we're talking about our esteemed MPs, Peoples' Democratic Party MP, the first-signed group proposal by the esteemed Mardin representative Erol Dora. Erol Dora, who I am full of feeling of friendship, has made very accurate assessments of this motion. Dear lawmakers, we carry out our duty abroad to protect and protect the people who are our kin, our faith, our cultural ties. We must not discriminate in the country when we have family members abroad who have faith and cultural ties. In Syria, in Iraq, in Karabağ, in Myanmar, in Sincan Uygur, in the Autonomous Region, there are people who have kinsmen and faith. There are people in the Balkans who have family ties, faith ties, cultural ties. There are people all over the world with the same values. We hold values for the sake of humanity, for the sake of our beliefs, without distinction. Islamist beliefs sometimes refer to them as the right sects, sometimes embarrassing descriptions of them as a rebellious or a few deviant sects. Some of them, unfortunately, move to textbooks. Sadly, we face understandings of the Hanefith, of the Hanefiy, of the Hanebah, of the Shafii, of the Maliki, of the other sects, of the facts of Anatolia, of the other, of the children, of those sects, and of their mothers. Sadly, those who embrace the Holy Scriptures, the Qur'an, are often excluded from those who embrace other scriptures. The approaches of the Torah, the Psalm, the Gospel, and the nations, the people, who bear the faiths of their prophets, the people, and their understanding of them do not suit man, and those of human value. The events of September 6-7, October 6th, also took place in Turkey's history as sad pages, pages that would not boast. The sources to feed them are textbooks. The textbooks must share their understanding, their teachings, according to our people, our nation, our common values. Citizens within their sacred borders must have a sense of understanding and embrace. They shouldn't exclude each other, they shouldn't replace each other. No one has that right. Unfortunately, the AKP strives to exclude power, to replace it, to put one part of society before the other, sometimes to maintain its own power based on the majority, with an understanding of humiliation. This purpose is an understanding that corrupts unity, unity. It must be abandoned. Back home...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0014par0245	Do you mean that by believing?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0013par0246	Who's saying what, what's wrong with what I'm saying? Just recently here on Friday, while I was speaking, we are not equal in the name of alhamdulillah. He said, "You must take abdest first to come to Diyarbakır." What right does a councilman have to say that? What did the Prime Minister of the era do to that member, the current Prime Minister, who said, "I don't disseminate."
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0014par0247	He's done a lot.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0013par0248	What did the current Speaker do? Does one MP have the right to say to another MP, "We are not equal." Does he have the right to say "Alhamdulillah"? Does that fit with Islamic and human understanding? You're talking, you're talking, you're not talking.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0015par0249	Mr. Proposal, continue your conversation, please. Congressmans, do not disturb the speaker, please.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0013par0251	Prejudice is a burden on the human heart, to be cleansed of it. Any word will be answered, Mr. President. We must avoid human and conscientious approaches in Turkey. We must all embrace each other before we make a distinction from the eastern western, northern, southern, native endings. Love for the Creator is an understanding that finds its essence in Jonah Emre. Jonah Emre is the symbol of love, the symbol of the call to the Lord, the symbol of Haci Bektas Veli, the symbol of tolerance, the Prophet, speaks of what is on my desk, and speaks of the straight path. The right way is not to lie, but to stay away from arrogance, not to commit corruption, not to eat the right of a servant. Those who claim foreign symbols because of their beliefs cannot, should not, should not, should not discriminate among their own citizens. We need to state that the Board of Education is very important. Members of the Training Discipline Board must determine the subject of textbooks and adjust the curriculum according to this, showing the ability to empathize with broad understanding. Many students feel overwhelmed, oppressed, excluded from textbooks because they differ from the majority of the people in the area in various parts of Asia Minor. No teacher, no textbook, no teaching has the right to put our children in this position. We served in different places. Where we served, there were disadvantaged communities of citizens, we embraced them all, we considered it a necessity of our duty to embrace them as well as of our faith and family discipline. Like our governor in Edirne, we have not burdened some of our citizens with the faults of the rulers of Israel. The Governor of Edirne is, but the Governor of Eskişehir, isn't he? A citizen has lost his life by beating him to death, his own friends may have killed him. The government of the Republic of Turkey is still representing him, shame on him! The same governor later asked that the trial be taken with another. Governor, what are you? Isn't it your first duty to ensure safety in that province, peace, public safety? Why do you move the citizens to another place because I can't ensure the safety of the judge? The plaintiffs, the victims, are getting new victims to watch their cases; they move out, they move in, they move lawyers, they move cases; they put up with new challenges to protect their children's rights, they put up with additional burdens to protect their children's rights. A governor shouldn't be in this situation. In order for the Republic of Turkey to exist forever, we must act with a sense of equality, unity, and unity. The rule of law is the equality of people, citizens. The position, position, ethnicity, religious differences, citizens should not be discriminated against in front of the law, everyone should be faithful to the rule of law. I pay tribute to those who deserve it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0016par0257	Thank you. The last speaker of the People's Democratic Party's group's proposal is Mr. Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0017par0260	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the advice of the HDP group. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Yes, it is a fact that one of the most important problems facing almost every region with problems with official ideology in ancient Turkey is the phenomenon of formal education and custody over education. The party has been in power since 2002 and has been trying to overcome this custody. Since the 2012-2013 school year, the 4+4+4 system has been implemented, the process and positive developments in the context of structural problems and curriculum have been consolidated by the EC PARTI (AK) through changes aimed at removing education from the official ideological custody situation. Human education, without a doubt, is one of the main needs for mankind that has been ahead of time. The history of education may be as old as human history. Today, the nation's state, which we're surrounded by in every way, has again put its meaning into the education system, just as it did with man. With the fact that most people's children have a better future, a modern nation builder education has more meaning than that. Secular, the placement of secular paradigm, the injection of the predictions of official ideology into the minds, the development of the submissive citizen type of modern nation state education is a valuable reality. The EC aims to raise the student as a person who unites with the AK PARTY around social, scientific, religious, historical, national values, ends discrimination, releases the student, respects his will. One of the primary factors applied to Turkey to build society in the official ideological direction, which at one time found its statement in Kemalism, was expected to be in formal education. The phenomenon of education with official ideology and its destruction in society ended with the AK PARTY. Despite its shortcomings, overcoming official ideological custody and liberalisation of education has been our main goal in the new era. The government's efforts for liberalisation in the field of education should be supported not only by the EC PARTY base, but by all segments. Because our children are our future, our ability to reach the dates we've set in the construction of the new Turkey will result in the freedom of our children in their education. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have found that policies aimed at removing official custody of education have been significant in society, with the Qoran-i Kerim, ciyer, Kurdish electives; the headscarf, 4+4+4 system; more liberal, targeting the individual; the policies aimed at removing official custody in education. We don't claim that the custody of education is completely over, but we know that we all have to do it together. Even if education is complete with physics and technological infrastructure, with human resources, with the latest wonders of technology and the world's most modern schools, the teacher and curriculum are incomplete, the desired goal will never be achieved. Mr. President, we must take steps from the curriculum that does not respond to the reality of the new world, to the educational system that responds to the development of the modern world, to the unity of the national union, historical values, culture, tradition, which is integrated with the modern world, which is based on knowledge, aimed at raising a free individual. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've taken a certain distance from the HSYK law agenda on the General Assembly agenda. A certain section of society expects this proposal to be legalized. Therefore, since we are short on time, I say that I cannot agree with the group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0018par0268	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (27/11/2014), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On November 25, 2014, November 25, 2014, 2014, 2014/2311, the number we gave the head of the TBM, Adana MP Seyfetttin Yilmaz and his friends, "The first-level historical natural site of the Ataturk Forest Farm, which we have assigned to the Prime Minister's Office, is the Isparta MP Nevzat Fear of third-level status, and his friends in the development of legal practices and solutions in the area of the third-level status area, to investigate, to support the ways, to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements to be made," and on November 25, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, with the 2014, with the 2014/2315 issue of the 2014/2315, it is not a proper issue of the construction of the construction of the construction of the institutionalisation of the institutional structure, and the construction of the Constitutionalisation of the construction of the Constitutional structures. In favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, Seyfettin Yilmaz will speak first, Adana MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0283	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have made a promise as the National Movement Party Group that the "Ataturk Forest Farm in the heart of the capital is a first-degree site of natural status, while illegal practices in transforming it into a third-degree sitt area. I salute your grand delegation. The Gazi compound, which was built in 1954 -- I call this illegal palace -- and I'll explain it with all its documents -- has been bought from real people in 1954 to do forestry research for the Forestry Research Institute. Starting in 1955, this area became a botany garden, which contains some 133 wooded plants -- 68, natural and exotic -- thanks to the practical scientific work of Turkish foresters. Again, it was also a field of wildlife, from fox to squirrel, from eagle to turtle, until it was interfered with here. As a result of these studies, the Veterans' Ataturk Forest Farm was declared a natural and historical site with 2/6/1992 and the Council's Decision 2436, and the first-degree historical and natural site of its 1998 date and 5742. What does that mean? This means that you need to know very well that there will be no countermeasures here that could disrupt the structure of this place. Despite these binding decisions, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the period gives a directive, saying: "Let a new prime minister's office be built where the Botanical garden of this Gazi compound is located." Now, instructions have been given, where is the will by the Prime Minister to tell this place that it will not be legal? There's no will anywhere. What do you have to do? You know the phrase, "We steal the minaret, how do we fabricate it?" Immediately, Veysel Eroglu is being instructed, and the Minister of Forests and Waterworks says: "Let's change this first-degree natural and historical status area."
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0020par0286	No stealing, no making up.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0287	After that, a report is being filed by the Director General of the Forest. Look, in 2011, this report says: "Let's remove the first-degree historical and natural area here and turn it into a third degree." What was it supposed to do? Let's say that the wooding and work here were done in 1992, and let's change that by saying that it won't cause any damage here. And do you know who signed this? I have the signature of the forest director who spent his life in forestry for fifty-five years. He signed under it to protect that seat. He said: "The trees here are twelve or thirteen years old. There are some of you who understand forestry well. Here, I'll show you: this is those woods in the forest headquarters. Do you know how old these are? If you show it to a ten-year-old elementary school kid, he'll know it's seventy-eight years old, but with the pressure, they've filed a report on it as a ten-year-old friend. And the Minister...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0020par0288	I can see it from here, too.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0289	Look, Mr. Recep, you know forestry, good bad, see how old they are. And I told the minister in the last budget: Mr. Secretary, shame is a sin! There's forest people working here. There's a souvenir of over 100 foresters who put their lives on the line to protect one plant. On horseback, behind the mountains, our retired brothers who work in the forest have sweat and labor. The Minister of the Forest said: I am the Minister. Don't you trust me? It's in the minutes of the House. Look at the commission. Not a single tree is going to be cut down here. He said, dear friends. You know who said that? Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. Yes, you see the work. These trees you see with these works, let alone 1 tree, over 15,000 beautiful cedar trees have been destroyed, destroyed. Now, you stole the minaret and prepared its cover? So, what did the Forest Engineers' Room do? He said: "This procedure is against the law." He filed a lawsuit. And this case leads to 11. Ankara Executive Court made a decision on 17/02/2014. Look, it's not a decision to stop running. In this decision, he said: "I am removing all of these transactions. All of this is against the law. It's against the fact that this is a historical and natural site. I'm removing all the transactions here, returning them to the old place. That means that all that's being done here, this escaped palace, right now, is illegal. Yesterday, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice of the State, had to explain it. There are lawyers among you. No higher court has a decision to stop the execution. These decisions must be implemented within thirty days. How many months have passed, dear friends, from the second month? What month is it? It's the eleventh month. Nine months have passed, nine months.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0021par0295	Let them bring it down. He said so.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0296	Nine months have passed and these decisions are not being carried out. Now, these decisions need to be carried out, dear friends. But, unfortunately, we're going through a process where these decisions don't apply. Well, you've killed so many trees, you've slaughtered the law. If you do something in return for the benefit of the nation, these people will say amenna. You've murdered the law, you've slaughtered the tree, you've slaughtered the environment, and you know what you've done in return, dear friends? In return, you built the fugitive palace, a symbol of vanity, glory, and luxury. Now, put your hand on your conscience here, where the president's palace, which is home to 11 presidents, has failed to perform what function, and you're building this thousand-room runaway palace, despite so much lawlessness? Do you know how much this costs? 1 trillion 374 billion. When this palace was being built, where did the glory and luxury take place? Look, I'm telling you, the colons are made of steel construction, green granite coatings. At the cost of 1 square meter of these granites, 16 mining workers are paid their wages. You brought thousands of square meters of green granite, not enough, and lymra stones from Antalya. His steps were moved by the stairs of the Dolmabahçe Palace. His terrace is based on Topkapi Palace. There has been a bigger public address than the square in front of the monument. Do you know what 280 trucks are being brought from the town of Nettetal, Germany, for this palace with a thousand rooms? The sapling is being brought in. What saplings are being brought in? The linoleum, the gurgle and the synthes. Put your hand on your conscience, there are thousands of limes in this country, thousands of kragens; it's a pity, isn't it? [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] In this field again, there's a bath in this field, a bath, a bath. There's sauna, there's SPA, there's steam rooms, there's movie theaters. What was the need for this luxury, for this splendour? These government speakers say, you know what they say when they explain it? I'm running out of time. Sir, this is Turkey's reputation... now, I wonder, do you know how much the White House in the United States is in terms of Turkey's reputation? 132 rooms and 5 acres. How much is our palace? 460 acres and a thousand rooms - 72 times larger than the White House in America. Now, our reputation in the world has improved 72 times? Is it seven times as big as the Royal Palace in England? Is our reputation improved 2,000 times more than Germany's Chancellor Merkel's presidential residence? Look, Turkey is struggling with unemployment, Turkey is struggling with poverty. What can be done with these, I'm simply saying: 28 hospitals with 400 beds can be built, with each of which can be made into 700 schools with eight schools.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0022par0303	They're done.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0304	1,700,000 workers can be paid, 500,000 students can be paid annually.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0023par0305	We did it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0306	4,500 living rooms can be built, 80 thousand entrepreneurs can be supported...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0024par0307	Let them make dorms first, dorms first.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0308	...the officer, the worker and the pensioner could get an additional 2% increase.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0025par0309	We did it all...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0310	But what is it? Ramadan Can just told me. What is this? New Turkey...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0026par0311	His new face...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0312	...new face, isn't it? Now, someone can sit in these palaces of 1 quadrillion 400 trillion with a bath in a thousand-bedroom palaces, but someone who doesn't even have plaster... uncle Recep and Aunt Ayþe walk around wearing torn rubber shoes in your new Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0027par0314	It's the new face of New Turkey!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0315	Look, someone in your new Turkey is in the mood for the back I ate in front of me, but do you know what someone is hoping to collect from the garbage in the marketplace? He's gathering food in your new Turkey. Look, in this Turkey, someone's carrying his son around with a sack on his back. Someone's gonna pick up a sack of coal and burn it to his house, but someone in your new Turkey is walking around with 700 billion hours.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0027par0317	They're collecting a lot of money, a lot of it!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0019par0318	Is this your new Turkey? This is the kind of new Turkey that suits you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0028par0320	The nationalist movement party suggested that the group...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0029par0321	We used to be victims, now we're proud, proud!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0030par0322	Mercy... it's all suspended.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0028par0323	If you'll excuse me, members of the law... The first speaker against the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal is Kütahya MP HASAN FEHMI MURDER. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0031par0327	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the nationalist movement group proposal. Dear friends, first of all, what we're discussing is a magnificent building that has been built by the presidency as a presidential service building and is also used by our President, which is worth the value of Turkey and Ankara.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0032par0329	What's the value?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0033par0330	Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0034par0331	They're fucking around!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0035par0332	Dear friends, during the AK PARTY, we built a high-speed train. During the AK PARTY, we divided 20,000 kilometers on highway standards.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0036par0333	We're not talking about the road!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0037par0334	Come to the palace, to the palace! Don't worry about it!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0035par0335	This power is building city hospitals all over Turkey. For one thing, first of all, a service building that suits this power has been given to Ankara.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0037par0336	You've made your followers rich on the roads, rich.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0035par0337	Ankara MPs, in particular, should thank our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for his opposition.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0038par0339	Instead of a thousand-bedroom palace, have a place to sleep, a place to sleep! Not with the palace.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0035par0340	Now, there have just been some assessments of this place. Dear friends, this has nothing to do with the Ataturk Forest Farm. First of all, let's review the information. The place used as the Presidential Service Building has been handed over to the Department of Forestry, which has previously been established in 1953, 54 and 60 years.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0039par0341	Oh, you!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0040par0342	Who sold it?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0041par0343	Did they sell it to build a palace?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0344	My dear friends, the Ministry of Forestry has built a presidential building that is suitable for the social and economic level that Turkey has arrived today instead of buildings that are mostly abandoned, which are practically inadmissible.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0043par0345	What social, economic situation, what social, economic situation!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0044par0346	Don't you see the torn shoes, sir?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0347	Now, please answer this first: the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this is the building we're in, this building, which was ordered to an Austrian architect in the 1938s, has added to Turkey's glory and, yes, its value. Has there been any assessment of how much the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cost?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0045par0348	Did you get caught in the bell?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0349	Now, during the construction of this building on the legislative body, Turkey is decorated with buildings built as palaces in the Constitutional Court building, the State Court building, the Court building, and many such institutions.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0046par0350	What a comparison!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0045par0351	Did you get caught in the bell, Chankaya?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0352	First of all, at this point, let's take this point in time for such an important development that reflects our cultural values in architectural aesthetics.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0046par0353	Fugitive, fugitive!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0354	First of all, let's put it this way.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0047par0355	Answer that you're a fugitive, that you're a fugitive!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0048par0356	How much was the illegal building built?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0357	Dear friends, your testimony regarding the illegal building...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0047par0358	Answer his fugitive!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0359	Now, of course, I'm going to talk about him.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0049par0360	Yes, the Minister told me about him yesterday, he said he was a fugitive.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0361	Look, it's being converted from first-degree status to third-degree status by the Ankara Council for the Protection of Culture and Nature. This is being sued by NGOs, case 11. It is discussed in the District Administration Court, then appeals to the State Court, and as a result of the appeal, it is expressed by the court's decision that it does not have any historical status, which is already being guaranteed a similar protection and control area by the Board of Protection.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0050par0362	No. Where's that court order? Show me where the court order is.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0363	Then I'll give you all of this in addition.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0050par0364	Show me, where is it? Show me.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0042par0365	I'll show you, just a minute, excuse me.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0051par0366	Well, the Minister of Justice couldn't make the decision, so how are you going to make it?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0050par0367	Come on, show me. The Minister of Justice couldn't show it, where did you get it?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0051par0369	The Minister of Justice apologized yesterday. The Minister of Justice couldn't show it, so what are you showing? Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0050par0370	He's giving false information, it's not a decision. That's the decision.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0052par0371	Yeah, well, the D.A.'s office is either stopping the lower court from carrying out its ruling or making its own decisions, my dear friends. Now, they've been given building licenses by the city's municipality, which, in the same way, has been decided by the Supreme Court to call off the district administration court.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0053par0373	The Minister doesn't know about your apology.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0054par0374	The minister apologized yesterday.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0052par0375	At this point, we're talking about a built-in building. Look, you're talking about the palace. Ya, we have many palaces of justice in Istanbul.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0055par0377	What state's Justice Minister is this? The minister said he's sorry. What are you talking about? Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0052par0378	I now have 1,040 rooms at the Palace of Justice in the Falls. It also has over a thousand rooms on the Anatolian side.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0056par0379	Fear God, 1,500 judges and prosecutors are there! How dare you compare him to the Court of Justice on the European side of Istanbul! That doesn't make any sense.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0052par0380	Now, based on his room and so on, you're doing some speculation here, some agitating. There's not much point in bringing them up by the opposition, dear friends. Because the EC PARTY period, of course, will go down in history as a period of building palaces of justice, palaces of government, exhibition palaces. The other thing is, now, about the Ataturk Forest Farm...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0057par0384	Congressmans, the speaker is on the stand. Please...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0052par0385	What has been done about the Ataturk Forest Farm, my dear friends, so far? Now, like this, we imagine a sacred area called the Ataturk Forest Farm, an untouchable area. Look what happened. The Ataturk Forest Farm was first distributed to various organisations between 1938 and 1950 by Parliament's decision. In 1953, at 54, 57, 59, until 83, the Ataturk Forest Farm...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0057par0387	Mr. Original Day, Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0052par0388	...18,213 acres scattered. Friends, there has been no loss of land on the Ataturk Forest Farm from 1983 to today -- look, 13 years in power of the EC PARTY. It's been rented, but no land has been sold since 1983. So... what's in there, the Ataturk Forest Farm, where we call it the Ataturk Forest Farm? There's a tractor factory? I do. There's a cement factory? I do. Is there a brewery? I do.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0058par0390	Who gave it to you? CHP gave it to him.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0052par0391	Guys, up to the gas station, there's rental spaces on the Ataturk Forest Ranch, places to sell.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0059par0392	There's nothing in the area that's been spoken of. Come to the area we talked about, the Gazi compound we talked about. They don't have any.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0052par0393	Dear friends, we are building a sacred site called the Ataturk Forest Farm, which is not in our minds.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0060par0394	It's not about sanctity, it's about illegal building...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0059par0395	Oh, there were these, look.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0061par0396	Aren't there trees there, trees, cypresses?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0062par0397	Well, now, there have been some assessments of the cost of this place.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0063par0398	Despite the court order...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0062par0399	We're talking 311,000 square meters of closed space, 750 acres.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0064par0400	That palace is corrupt...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0062par0401	We're talking 311,000 square metres of construction within a total of 750 acres.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0065par0402	A thousand-room palace.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0062par0403	Have fear of God, friends, those who understand construction... You know, a friend from the woods came in earlier, and he talked about the forest here, and I respect that. Don't you have friends who know how to build? If you calculate the cost of $2,500, $3,000 today, the cost of this wonderful investment will come to light.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0066par0404	What an investment!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0062par0405	You're expressing it as speculation.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0067par0406	We'll explain their corruption...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0068par0407	Is the Minister of Finance lying?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0062par0408	$908 million so far, plus VAT.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0069par0409	Five billion more, five billion more.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0062par0410	In this regard, the last information we received from the TOKI (TİKI) has been paid 908 million, 404,357 lira worth of friends, plus VAT so far.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0070par0411	What is the Minister of Finance saying, lying?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0069par0412	It's paid. How much will they pay? Like Ceausescu's palace...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0071par0414	311,000 square feet, with an average height of 4.5 meters, about 2 apartments high in the Ataturk Forest Farm, in that area, or rather the Presidential Palace in that area, we are proud to say, of course, that we are not burdened. He lived in a mansion during your time.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0069par0415	It has history, its history, its value comes from there.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0071par0416	The Turkish Language Agency's statement of the village is expressed as a gardeny, fancy house. And when you say "Sararay," it suits the reputation of the heads of state...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0072par0417	So, your term is a little... is Abdullah Gul not your period? Three or four months ago, Abdullah lived in the house of Gul.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0071par0418	...represented areas and areas of study. (CHP and MHP rankings) In his statement at the Turkish Language Agency...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0073par0419	Your job is difficult, it's difficult to defend the symbol of corruption and corruption. You're just writhing over him.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0071par0420	So let's say that the AK PARTI era reveals from where, from what level, what level of construction, its architectural understanding, its understanding of the public building. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0074par0424	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0075par0425	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0076par0426	Mr. President, they made a dump of the Ataturk Forest Farm. You piled up rubble, we built a palace.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0077par0428	Mr. Kaçir, please.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0078par0429	You cut down the trees there, and then you say, "We didn't cut down the trees."
tbmm-2014-11-27sit01spe0077par0430	I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0077par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 20th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue negotiations on the nationalist movement group proposal. The second speaker in favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal is Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0079par0006	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the nationalist movement group proposal, on behalf of my group. First of all, with all this corruption and all this trouble, it might be a little awkward to talk about a building. That's what my friends in power are trying to say, but this is very, very important. Because, from preparation to location selection, from the construction, from the tender process to the transfer from the prime minister to the presidency, this building has been a problem, it's a problem, and it's still a problem, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0080par0009	We're good. That's where our president lives. Relax, relax.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0081par0010	Mr. New, please.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0079par0011	I'll tell you in a minute. He's got legal problems; he's got environmental issues, he's got nature issues, and unfortunately, there's an extravagance that goes beyond waste, my dear friends.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0080par0012	There's nothing for you here.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0079par0013	There are conscience issues, my dear friends. That's why this matter needs to be discussed, investigated. For him, we're joining the parliamentary research motion from the National Movement Party. This has to be done, this investigation. I've thought about it, believe me, I've thought about it. This isn't just a building. This is also, unfortunately, a symbol of the era and of this era. Unfortunately, it's also a symbol of corruption, of irregularities, of lawlessness, and, as I just said, of waste. And my dear friends, this, this building, this palace is a monument to greatness, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0082par0015	Don't think about it like that.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0079par0016	I'm afraid so. Now, I'm looking at it from a legal standpoint. My friends just said, "It's okay from a legal standpoint." The problem is, sir, this was the first-degree area, you know, the natural site, turned into a third-degree area. After that, the natural status feature also lost its historical status feature. There are 33 court orders on this, 33 lawsuits. There are 33 court orders concerning each stage, its location, its construction, its steps, and lastly -- you just said there was no problem. Look, Ankara 5. The Supreme Court has a restraining order. In response to this decision, during the talks last night, Mr. Justice Minister also objected to our Group Vice President, Mr. Gökίe -- regarding this matter -- that decision was cancelled. Unfortunately, he had to apologize later. Look, I'm reading from last night's transcripts: the valued MPs, the fifth one that Mr. Sky was just talking about. I spoke the way the bureaucrat friends transferred me when the Supreme Court informed me of the verdict. From them, we have a court order, this is 5. When I asked about the outcome of the ruling court's decision, the district administration court decided to stop running. They informed me. I, on top of that, explained to you that there was a decision to stop the execution. When you made the decision, I asked for the decision. Of course, by the way, when they told me that you had decided to refuse the motion to stop the execution, they said that's what you said. I'm sorry. Therefore, because of the mistransferment of information, I have presented it to you as accurate information, correcting it. 5. The appeal against the YD issued by the Executive Court has been rejected by the district administration. And other than that, my dear friends, a building is built, a building this important, but why isn't it built directly for the presidency, for the Prime Minister? After that, there are problems with his era. Could a building built for the Prime Minister be suitable for the presidency? There's been an anomaly. There are problems with the times, there are problems, there are problems with every stage of this building. Of course, other than that, my dear friends, I said there's a sign. In fact, there are some expenditures outside of 1,370 million that the Finance Ministry announced in the Plan Budget Commission, many of which are from abroad. Furnitures from the Italian Giorgetti firm, Daisy Simon, were bought from the French firm, and green marble from Guatemala was imported to Turkey as well as almost a mountain. The Minister of Finance, unfortunately, didn't want to give it to you during the last talks, but we're predicting that there's been an opening of about $70 million, that kind of information coming in, that we don't know as the Ministry of Finance, said we don't know about it. Unfortunately, at this stage, in this case. My dear friends, there are legal problems, but our beliefs, our culture, there are problems with building this building, there are problems. You know Abu Zer, when Abu Zer was building a palace for the deputy in Damascus, he said to the deputy: "If you build this palace with public money, with the state's money, it is unlawful, but if you make it with your own money, it is also waste. Unfortunately, we built a building like this, so we're building it. (Eat and drink, but do not squander the goods of others.) God does not love the wasteful. On one side, my dear friends said: "This is the honor of Turkey, it is its dignity. " Friends, honor is not a matter of respect. If it's honor, if it's dignity, Soma is our honor, and Soma is our reputation. We need to think of them more first. We didn't need a building like this, we didn't need a building like this. So we should all sit down and agree to a congressional investigation into this. We need to know what's going on, and we need to leave no stain on the future. You all have to accept that. Look, there's also the aesthetic side to the building. You know Turgut Canever, the famous architect, we lost him three or five years ago. It says: "You enter a gothic church, the cathedral, it's magnificent, it's magnificent. You'll be crushed by that glory, you'll shrink as human beings. But you get into an Architect Sinan's work, which is great, but you grow up there as a human being. This is how architecture happens, how it represents you, how it represents you, how it becomes an architecture, how it represents you. You enter this architecture - the building, the palace - crushing you, crushing you, shrinking you. How can that be our reputation?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0083par0025	Did you go?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0079par0026	I did. I'm afraid you feel the same way when you go around it, folks.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0084par0027	When did you leave?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0079par0028	Otherwise, of course, we'd brag about it, but unfortunately, architecturally, aesthetically, it's like this, it's like it's crushing, it's destroying, it's shrinking. For him, it's not right with that side, it's not right with that part of the city, guys. Again, look, I'm going to read you a paragraph from Precious Master Turgut Cansever: It is impossible for a person to develop a beautiful environment, cities, neighborhoods and houses in the 20th century, where the world is polluted by generations who do not comprehend the beauty of the world God created, who do not consider themselves responsible for beautifying this world, who consider it short-term and plundering. Today, especially the environments in the grips of unconscious copying of their culture-deprived countries are polluting the country and preparing hellish pollution for future generations. There are few people in Turkey who have no part in this delusion. When we build these structures, we have to think about all these parts of it, what kind of city it is, what philosophy it is. I did it, I did it. I can't do it. We had to consider the legal side, the waste, the aesthetic side, the urban side, the scientific side, everything. It's here, it's done. Now, together, for all this expense, we have to accept this Parliamentary inquiry motion for what's been done. We need to know what's going on, that a structure this important -- the most expensive structure in Turkey -- shouldn't be stained by future generations. All of you, please -- especially to my friends in power -- vote positive for this, and you, if this is a white palace, clear it, and if it's a runaway palace...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0085par0033	Shall we tear it down or break it down?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0079par0034	Or we could use it the way it's used in the most reasonable way possible.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0086par0036	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0079par0037	That is a sin on you and on you. This is not a political problem, my friends. We'll have to do it together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0086par0040	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. The final speaker against the National Movement Party's group proposal is Bart's MP Mr. Yilmaz Tunç.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0042	Mr. President, I've been promised against the MHP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The technical statements regarding the presidential palace were made in detail by our head of the CIT Commission, Kütahya MP Mr. Kinay. There is no way that we can participate in debates about the presidential palace, criticisms of the opposition. First of all, you call this building a runaway palace, a building license, a building given by the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, with a building license and construction completed.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0088par0044	It's a fake. It's a fake.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0089par0045	I. It was given to me by Melih, I. Indeed, it is the truth!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0046	After the construction was completed, it was allowed to use construction. Now, you're talking about some court decisions, local court decisions. There is no final decision yet.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0090par0048	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0049	The State will decide the final decision.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0091par0050	How do they do it if there's no final decision in all this time?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0051	That's why your arguments right now are all in vain.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0092par0052	Will you obey the court's decision, do you know the law?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0053	It's not about the tree. There are no trees where those buildings are built. You all know, there were bushes and old buildings.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0093par0054	Sin, sin! Look, is this a bush or a bush or a bush? I worked there for ten years, ten years. Is that a bush?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0055	Now, thousands of new trees have been planted, and you know it very well.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0094par0057	Yes, he's from Germany. Are the trees local or imported? How many trucks did the trees come in?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0058	You are also well aware that public buildings have been audited by the Court and that these expenditures have been passed by the Court. The Republic of Turkey is a state of law.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0095par0059	What are you going to do, tear it down if there's a court order?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0060	There are institutions in the state of law, there are rules, everyone has to follow those rules.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0096par0061	That's right, that's right!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0062	All over the world, presidential palaces, presidential palaces, parliamentary buildings are built in glory.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0097par0063	As the Ottoman sinks, he builds a magnificent palace, and you sink the republic.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0064	From time to time, we travel abroad, we go together, you and I, along with the opposition party MPs. When we go to the council buildings there, when we go to the presidential buildings, when we go to the ministry buildings, you talk about the glory there.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0098par0065	Are you ashamed of the Chankaya Mansion in Turkey, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0066	Why don't we have it? Don't you wonder?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0099par0067	There's no such thing, there's no such thing. In Central Asia, in the Middle East, there are these, in kingdoms, in totalitarian regimes, such palaces. There is no such palace in democratic countries, you're lying!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0068	And We have witnessed much of your statement there. You said: "We are oppressed in these buildings."
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0100par0069	Who said that? Who said that?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0101par0070	Who said that? Who said that?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0071	On these trips, we remember the statements of our opposition MPs as if they were yesterday. Our presidential palace that you're trying to defame is the representative office of Turkey, the esteemed MPs. We have welcomed foreign state representatives, presidents, prime ministers, who have been coming to our country for years, by stopping traffic on the streets.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0101par0073	The Prime Minister wasn't going there.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0074	It's normal, it suits the prestige of our country. If you say so, we have nothing to say to the opposition, but we don't say that.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0102par0075	Where did the Prime Minister live until now?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0101par0076	Where does the Prime Minister live? What's wrong with traffic in the suburbs?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0077	There's a Turkey, there's a Turkey, there's a great Turkey, there's a term president of 20 developed countries.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0101par0078	Cut the crap, cut the crap!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0079	Great Turkey is worthy of prestigious state buildings.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0103par0080	Forbidden, forbidden, fugitive, fugitive!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0081	We believe that the presidential office representing the unity of the state should be worthy of the size and dignity of the Republic of Turkey, and so does our nation.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0104par0082	Do you believe that? Poll in your group, half of them don't believe what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0083	On August 10, 2014, before the presidential election, you kept the matter on the agenda, but our nation made Recep Tayyip Erdogan President in the first round.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0105par0085	Corruption is not justified by the chest; corruption is not justified by the chest.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0086	And from now on, you will not succeed in the perception management you're trying to create on this subject.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0106par0087	Did you see the corruption laundered in the trunk?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0088	Because this nation knows Recep Tayyip Erdogan very well, write as much as you want. Because if he were a court lover, he wouldn't have lived in Goatören, between the neighborhood and the apartment during his 12 years as Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0107par0090	It's tight, it's tight!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0091	He wouldn't come to a slum next door and wave spoons at the same bowl of soup with his citizen. Our nation knows Recep Tayyip Erdogan very well.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0108par0093	What's he gonna do with the bath house?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0109par0094	Those moments are all fake, fake! Now, he lives in 3,000 euros a square metre of saunas.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0095	Now, you're in a perception management of the presidential palace as if it were the property of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0109par0096	He did it to himself, he did it to himself!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0097	This is property of the state, property of the nation, property of this country.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0109par0098	Haram, Haram! It's forbidden with so many hungry people. Prohibited, forbidden!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0099	Recep Tayyip Erdogan is not our President's personal property. That's how people know.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0109par0100	13 million people live under $350, according to the figures of TÜİK. Haram! What, do you not forbid? Do you know what wasteful is?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0101	Why won't your mud hold? Because, you who criticised the Presidential Palace, did you not put $18.5 billion on this nation's back just because of the interest increase in travel events? [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Didn't you criticize the presidential palace and bill this country $2232 billion for the sinking of 21 banks?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0110par0104	We didn't.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0105	You did.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0111par0106	Haven't you made this country the most indebted country in the world?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0107	You who criticize the presidential palace will raise the dollar in one night from 600 to 1,200, at 5,7,000 interest per night...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0112par0108	Shame on you, shame on you, sin on you!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0109	...didn't you make this country's people poor overnight?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0112par0110	Woe to you! Woe to you!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0113par0111	You don't know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0112	Yes, you've been in power for three and a half years, you've been a partner in the coalition, you've been in the National Movement Party for three and a half years.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0112par0113	Don't lie to me, when you lie to me, he'll strangle you, you liar!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0114	There's headquarters, there's headquarters.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0112par0115	You're a liar!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0116	Helicopter landing on headquarters, helicopter. In your three and a half years of power, I wish you'd built such magnificent buildings for the government.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0112par0117	Don't talk about things you don't know, brother. There's not a penny of government money in there.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0118	If you had built hospitals, built schools like the AK PARTY did, you should have done universities.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0114par0119	Your nose is growing.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0120	If you had built dams, you could have built tunnels under the sea.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0115par0121	We started them, we started them.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0122	If you started building the world's largest airport.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0116par0123	Come to the runaway palace, to the runaway palace.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0124	If you'd built the world's largest bridges.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0117par0125	Bravo.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0126	You built yourself a headquarters, you built a helipad on it, people know that very well.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0118par0127	And without shame, you're trying to defend them.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0128	The headquarters of the Republican People's Party is no less than you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0119par0129	What is your headquarters?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0120par0130	Your headquarters are above the ban.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0131	When you look at it like this, oval office-style architecture attracts attention.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0121par0132	You're being ridiculous.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0133	Now, that's the difference between AK PARTY.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0121par0134	You're making statements that don't suit a congressman.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0135	AK PARTY serves people, works for people; this nation knows very well who you work for.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0121par0137	You're going to bring in a receipt for 232 billion dollars, liar!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0122par0138	Just answer for the million dollars.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0139	Mr. President, good lawmakers, the mud you throw over the presidential palace won't hold. Yes, we're watching foreign television, the BBC has made a video, and it's a policy to wear it out against our country. We're also looking at other foreign televisions.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0123par0140	You're being mocked, you're being ridiculed, you're being embarrassed!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0124par0141	Be happy. Be happy.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0142	They're not mocking, they're jealous of Turkey, Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0125par0144	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0145	Why are you jealous of Turkey?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0125par0146	It's like discovering America.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0147	Why are you so afraid of the growth of Turkey, of Turkey being the superpower, of Turkey being the leading country in 2023?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0125par0148	Your friends will laugh at that.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0126par0149	Brother, you couldn't account for the two planes that Syria had dropped!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0150	Don't be afraid, don't be afraid.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0126par0151	You still haven't explained why two pilots died.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0127par0152	You're overwhelmed by this, listen to your conscience, your conscience, talk like that.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0153	Twelve years ago, there are non-Turkey lawmakers, Turkey, which has grown four times its size since 2002.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0126par0154	He's taking down the Syrian plane, and you can't answer!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0127par0155	Don't argue, if your father did it, you wouldn't defend it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0156	There's a power that carries unimaginable activities, services to 81 provinces.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0126par0157	Why couldn't they explain why the pilot died?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0158	There's a power that builds the world's largest airport. There's a power that builds the world's largest bridges. There is a government that protects the poor, the poor, the poor, the disabled at home, the poor at home. There's a power that builds hospitals.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0128par0159	There is a power helping the PKK.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0087par0160	There's a power that brings every province to college. Today, Turkey, it's not the old Turkey you're talking about, it's the new Turkey. New Turkey's state buildings will also be prestigious.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0129par0162	People are getting poorer...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0130par0163	Fugitive palace Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0131par0164	You're talking about a Turkey where thieves are protected, corruption, the news of bribery is banned, the AKP is prevented from being tried.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0132par0165	If you come to power...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0131par0166	We're going to see your new Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0132par0167	Dear lawmakers, everything is done within the framework of the laws and regulations. Fugitive palace and all, your mud won't hold. Here's a building permit, here's a building permit.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0133par0168	Get over it, get over it. Court order...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0134par0169	Who gave you this? Who gave it to you, I. Did Melih give it to you?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0132par0170	Is there a court process that's been established? You can't say that, the State will give you the last word. Who will make the decision on the state's expenditures? The Court will give it to you. We'll all wait for this together. Your wearout policies haven't held up until now, and they won't anymore.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0134par0171	Who gave you those licenses, I. Melih?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0132par0172	Therefore, the National Movement Party says I'm against the group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0135par0174	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0136par0175	That's a good lie. That's a good one.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0137par0176	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0138par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0139par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0140par0179	Five people in one group don't stand up.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0141par0180	Not five, but ten.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0142par0181	I'm waiting for the MPs to show initiative and remain silent. Because I can't do it with a warning.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0143par0182	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0142par0183	Mr. Sky, come in, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0143par0184	Sir, the speaker also spoke to the Republican People's Party headquarters, referring to the country's 18 billion dollars in debt in travel events, and talking about how embarrassed we are when we go abroad.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0142par0185	Now, Mr. Gök, I will promise you one thing, but let's get one thing straight: The speaker has expressed satisfaction with the Republican People's Party saying it has a beautiful building this size.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0143par0186	Sir, he made a comparison. I don't think this comparison is...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0142par0187	He made a comparison, and I'll promise you that, but look, I have to make a statement. So I listened, and I feel compelled to make that statement. The speaker expressed his satisfaction, saying that the People's Party of the Republic also has such a beautiful building.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0144par0188	No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0142par0189	If you don't have that kind of satisfaction, if you want to talk about bullying, go ahead, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0144par0190	He tried to imply that the Republican People's Party building was also a fugitive. He tried to imply that it was a violation.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0142par0191	No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0144par0192	That's what I understood, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0142par0193	You got it wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0145par0196	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the AKP spokesman who just spoke, of course, when the court's decision to stop an execution was made, and yesterday the country's Minister of Justice stood up here, apologizing to everyone, and I said that the court's decision had been lifted, but I was wrong, that the court's decision had been made. Even though he had said it was obvious, it really surprised us all that he was speaking with a lawyer's identity who was trying to undermine the court's decision.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0146par0197	He's not a lawyer, he's a law school graduate.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0145par0198	The General Centre of the Republican People's Party, my dear friends, is a building made from the Republican People's Party's own budget and a donation from its party members. It's a very modest building, and with the use of today's public resources, there's no comparison between this palace and which the presidency has been uncouthly built. Even with the back of our hands, we will reject your claim. If anyone wants, we'll show the humble headquarters of the Republican People's Party one by one. You're talking about how we're embarrassed when we're out in the country, when we're out in the country -- what we're seeing is how humble the presidents in foreign countries are, how humble the palaces the prime ministers use, how their historical identity is protected, how they serve the public with a very modest housing structure. The shame we see, how humble they are, how vulgar you are. We are ashamed of it. (HP and MHP rows) There are more accounts you will give to the public about this, and you will surely give them that account. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0147par0202	We're both head-butts and jerks, and we can't reach your intellectual level!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0203	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0149par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0150par0205	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0206	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0150par0207	Mr. President, the group we've given the direct truth to...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0151par0208	Mr. President, before that, we were accused of...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0209	Come in, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0150par0210	You're accusing our group of... Mr. Speaker, in various ways accused our group of...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0212	Now, in fact, my promise to you and to you is an explanation according to the Charter. However...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0152par0213	Don't comment, sir!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0214	Because he told you the same thing, he said: "The National Movement Party has a building, and the helicopter is landing on it." That's something to be pleased about.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0153par0215	The debt was left 232 billion dollars from when the party was in power. He said, he lied.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0216	I don't understand why you would take this as a taunt. For this reason, in fact, when I should have explained to you and to Mr. Sky, I promised not to tease Mr. Sky, and I will give it to you. Mr. Aydın, after Mr. Sky's speech earlier, asked for a word. Mr. Aydın, are you going to answer Sky?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0154par0218	We'll talk to him, then he'll answer.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0155par0219	Mr. President, this is Mr. Sky...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0220	Mr. Aydın, are you asking for the speech of Mr. Levent Sky?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0155par0221	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0222	Do you think there was some sort of bullying in your group in Mr. Sky's speech?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0155par0223	That's right, Mr. President, Mr. Levent Gök...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0224	I don't know what he said.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0155par0225	He accused us of rudeness, sir, what could be more than that?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0156par0226	No, I didn't tell your group.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0227	Okay. Don't tell me anything now.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0157par0228	Mr. President, I didn't mean the band.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0229	I mean, I'm at a decision-making point, but I have to ask you to get it to the report. Here, I'll give you two minutes. And then...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0158par0231	No, sir. Mr. President, I just...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0148par0232	Please, one at a time...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0158par0233	Let me put it this way...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0159par0234	I didn't say it. He says it. Mayor, you need to listen to this.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0158par0235	I didn't accuse the group of rudeness.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0160par0236	Now I've heard the word "invisible."
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0161par0237	He said he did.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0158par0238	No, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0162par0239	The architecture of the building told me.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0163par0240	I promise to explain later, please...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0164par0241	He said, "Let him see the transcripts."
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0165par0242	What I mean is that the building is uncouth.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0163par0243	I don't think he's gonna answer that. We don't know. They're the ones who appreciate it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0165par0244	I mean, I didn't say anything about our friends.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0166par0245	Mr. President, we've been asking as the MHP Group for half an hour, so don't.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0163par0246	I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you, I told you. Don't be angry, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0167par0248	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, look, we've been in the middle of a very shallow thought for a long time. Of all the problems back home, of all the problems...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0168par0250	That's the problem. Harmless palace, forbidden, not a problem?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0167par0251	You're making very serious, dispossessed, unjust accusations about a palace that will be our honor and our pride. It's the fifth since yesterday. It's a ruling from the Supreme Court. Look, guys...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0169par0253	11, 11.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0167par0254	11. The Supreme Court ruled it out.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0170par0255	He didn't, no.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0171par0256	5.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0167par0257	5, Mr. Levent, right, 5.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0171par0258	5
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0167par0259	Wait a minute. Mr. Levent says five. Dear friends, the lawyers know very well. 5. The ruling of the Supreme Court is a decision against the 2010 Nazi zoning plan. While the trial on this conjecture zoning plan continues, by the way, the Nazi zoning plan changes in 2011, and there's no court decision against the change of this zoning plan in 2011, and you're trying to create a perception that you think is against the existing zoning plan. There's a court order against the current application plan, and it's against stopping the execution. That's a court order, 5. The ruling of the Supreme Court is opposed to the Nazi zoning plan of 2010. Thus, 2011 is being changed. So there's a zoning plan. After the change in 2011, there is no court order against the zoning plan or the coherence plan. Therefore, there is not a single decision on both building permits and building use.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0172par0261	Ahmet, you can't get away with this. As long as he spends that money, as long as he builds a square meter of the 3,000-euro salon, you can't get away with it. There's a conscience, a conscience! You can't get away!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0167par0262	So far, there's been a case of 33-35. Like I said, one out of two cases, 11. The Supreme Court's decision is being ruled out by the Court of Justice. 5. The ruling of the Supreme Court is an old decision, a decision of the 2010 Nazi plan.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0172par0263	A conscience, a conscience!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0167par0264	We've got to figure this out. It's as if you've found something in your hand that's been on the run since last night.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0173par0265	The minister apologized, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0167par0266	Guys, there's no escape structure like this. This structure represents the honor of this nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Get some work done, get your candidate elected. Let him go, let him sit down!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0174par0270	You've hurt people's conscience!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0175par0271	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0272	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Now, Mr. Halaçoglu, you asked for a word.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0175par0274	I want it for the band.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0275	Now, you want it on behalf of the group. On what grounds do you want it? There's a taunt. You said it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0175par0276	They gave a speech accusing our group and accusing us of dishonor.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0277	Now, look, I mean, about your group, there's a helicopter above your general center.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0177par0278	Mr. President, do you have to interpret everything like that?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0279	Wait a minute. Excuse me.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0177par0280	Mr. President, do you have to defend the preacher?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0281	Would you excuse me? Mr. Faruk, what did I say?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0177par0282	We're being bullied, what are you defending?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0283	What did I tell you? As a result, have I made my decision? You're so quick, so easily angry!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0178par0284	Mr. President, we're not going to talk about how the bank was sunk during our government...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0285	Yes, I know, I will, I will.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0178par0286	We want separately for the government, we want separately for our group, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0287	Okay, did you just say that?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0178par0288	Yes, I did.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0289	As the minister of the period, Mr. Faruk Bal wants a word?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0178par0290	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0291	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0179par0292	And me for the band.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0178par0293	But not on behalf of the group, on behalf of the government, on behalf of the government at the time.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0294	Now there's been some misinformation about our return, there's been some bullying. Does Mr. Faruk Bal, the minister of the era, want to speak?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0178par0295	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0296	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0178par0297	We want it for the group, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0298	That's later. Mr. Faruk, two minutes... For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0180par0301	And Mr. Seyfettin will speak for the group.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0302	You're all talking at the same time. Mr. Faruk, don't look so angry. Why are you walking here before I can make up my mind?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0304	Mr. President, you turn on the microphone, promise me something, stop talking.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0176par0305	It doesn't suit you, please.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0307	Mr. President, I condemn you. You're acting like the speaker's lawyer. You're protecting the attacker against the nationalist movement party's ruling personality. The National Movement Party, yes, has a building. That building was built as one of the most important centers in the Turkish world, not a penny of it! (Applause from MHP rows) There's not a penny of illegal money! But what you have built is full of forbidden houses. Inside, look, $3.10 for digging, and this is...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0182par0309	It was taxed by people. Don't call people's taxes 'haram.'
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0310	Well, I'm one of the people. You stole my money! You got him, you got him in here! That's stealing!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0183par0312	You've given away the contractors!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0182par0313	We didn't steal it, we built a solid building there.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0314	Shut up!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0182par0315	We built a service building there.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0316	Mr. President, please restart my time.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0182par0317	Don't call people's taxes 'haram.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0318	Please restart my time.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0319	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0320	Sir, give me a chance to talk, give me a chance to talk.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0322	I gave you the right to speak!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0323	You don't give me the right to speak, the right to speak.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0324	They treat you the same way you treat the speaker there! Please...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0326	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0327	Please...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0328	Mr. President, it's not my job to silence the MPs, it's yours.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0329	You're all people who've made progress. I'm supposed to play you from here?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0330	Mr. President, is it my duty or your duty to silence the lawmakers?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0331	Please, don't come near here, please. I gave you a say.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0332	Mr. President, is it my duty or your duty to silence the lawmakers?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0333	Everyone here has to keep their peace, their calm. I'm not the class president here.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0334	You'll listen to me, you'll listen to me.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0335	I'm listening. Come in. Rebooting.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0337	Is it my duty or your duty to silence the MPs?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0338	I'm afraid I can't get you to shut up.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0339	I want to talk.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0184par0340	Come in, come in. I turned on the microphone.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0185par0341	Mr. President, when you get up there, stop partying!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0342	Dear friends, the truth cannot be hidden by shouting and calling.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0186par0344	That's right, that's right, you're the one yelling!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0187par0345	You're uncomfortable.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0346	So...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0188par0347	They don't want to listen to the numbers, they're uncomfortable, their consciences are uncomfortable.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0348	Look, look at these numbers, if you have any evidence, if you have a conscience, if you have a God-fearing fear, if you have an orphan's right, you weigh these numbers.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0189par0349	It's all there.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0190par0350	There's plenty!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0351	Land digging fee, official track: $3.10 cubic meters...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0191par0352	Who gave you those numbers?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0181par0353	...you're giving $37.19 to a runaway palace to a cubic meter.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0191par0354	Where did you get those numbers?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0192par0355	State figures from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0193par0356	If you're wondering, you can have one, too. Court reports, 2012.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0194par0357	Hand-dried, gravel sprinkled $3.49, you're paying 66 lira 88 cents, 19 times, and these numbers go on, and I don't have time. I'd like to add up these numbers and share them with you, but you're going to go up eight times, ten times, 20 times the price. As a result, the price of this thousand-bedroom runaway palace is 1 quadrillion dollars, according to Mr. Finance Minister. Whose money is this, brother?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0193par0358	Identifiable!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0195par0359	He's the one who's been detected.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0196par0360	You've broken the treasure wide open.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0197par0361	Isn't that people's money?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0198par0362	Yeah. The palace is the people's palace.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0199par0363	Everyone in the building.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0197par0364	We're on it, we're on it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0200par0365	You've dragged the government off the face of the earth for years! You can't stomach it!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0197par0366	The day will come when the fuse will be called to account by your nose. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, the speaker who just spoke...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0200par0369	Tell me 22 banks, 22 banks, you were the Minister!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0197par0370	Mr. President, please shut him up.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0201par0371	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0197par0372	Speaking earlier, the speaker lied one, two, to the government at the time when we served as the National Movement Party -- because there was no time left -- because there was no time left.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0202par0373	Such a liar, such a slanderer!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0197par0374	Falsehood and slander are two of the three signs of hypocrisy.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0203par0376	You're the one who sunk the banks, the banks.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0204par0377	Thou art the liar, the slanderer.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0197par0378	I want those who accuse the Nationalist Movement Party of hypocrisy to be charged with this crime in the afterlife.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0205par0380	Mr. President, on behalf of our group...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0206par0381	Wait a minute... Mr. Halaçoglu, while running the Assembly, I'm witnessing some of the members of your group's descriptions of myself, overhearing. I'm trying to be as equal here as I can.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0207par0383	That's what we want.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0206par0384	Either they're not listening to us, or they're trying to tell us the scars of a world they dream of. I've spoken to you, and I'll give you my word. And yet why do your friends say things about my rights that aren't true? Please, talk to your friends.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0208par0385	We talk to our friends all the time, Mr. President, but without you considering our reasons...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0206par0386	Who did I promise to, to another party's spokesman? Mr. Halaçoglu, please, please...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0208par0387	You're not questioning us like you just did when you promised other groups.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0206par0388	I treat you all equally. Whose spokesman did I promise now, which party's spokesman? Your party's spokesman, right? I'm listening to you now. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0208par0390	But we wanted two things, of course.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0206par0391	Now that we're there, it's one thing at a time.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0208par0392	Okay, okay. No, we've been saying it all along, sir. Mr. Seyfettin is speaking on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0206par0394	Now, come on in. It's his turn, Mr. Halaçoglu. Everything you want, it's not always done, it's done. I'm listening. I'm listening, look, I'm listening to your request. What is it? Your group...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0209par0397	He insulted our group's motion to talk about the bushes and to say that our group's motion had nothing to do with the honor of the state.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0210par0398	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0206par0399	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0211par0401	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the AKP spokeswoman, just said there's something to be said. Now, he's a lawyer, he's got to have something to do with forestry. I mean, what kind of statement do we take from someone who calls it "stealing" here? He says that with a lawyer's ID.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0212par0403	The trees are over there.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0213par0404	Those trees are stopping.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0211par0405	So we're going to discuss what is right here in the 80-year-old cedar, the 70-year-old acacia, which is called the acacia.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0214par0407	We're planting more trees.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0211par0408	Now, look, I'll tell you something: this place has become a symbol of pomp and luxury. What need did the Chankaya Mansion provide? No, we're meeting him on the road. Where is the Prime Minister now, Mr. Speaker? The PM's still in place. In the house of Çankaya, you met the cavalry, let alone the way. After that, I'll tell you one thing: a penny hasn't been earned since the National Movement Party was in power.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0215par0411	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0211par0412	There has never been a process where their ministers lay in front of Zarrab. No one has anything to say about our president. He is the most honest leader of Turkey, not of the state's car, but of his own car on his way to party work. But in your time, Riza Sarrafs, millions, millions in boxes, let alone the allegations about the Prime Minister's son, while the sailors are in the middle, it is not up to anyone to speak to the National Movement Party!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0215par0413	No way!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0211par0414	Our President is the most honest leader in the world, one of the most honest leaders in the world. First of all, those decisions that have been made by your leader, those non-obsertive courts, those rights of the subject, those rights of the orphan, you will answer for them.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0216par0415	These are your allegations. They're the allegations, the allegations!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0217par0416	You're sinking, you're sinking! People know everything.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0211par0417	Not with a bath, not with a bath, not with a sauna, not with a reputation, not with a SPA. It's a place of luxury. If there were, Ceausescu and Romania would be the world's leading country with the 1,175-bedroom palace of Ceausescu.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0217par0419	People know everything, relax.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0218par0420	Mr. Yilmaz, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0211par0421	As for those who devour the forbidden, they will surely be questioned.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0217par0423	People know it's bad, they know it's good, so just relax. People know everything.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0218par0424	Mr. Sky, I'm listening. I also want to thank you for your calm.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0219par0426	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement regarding the court's decision that Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0218par0427	Please, I promise you your place, for making a statement. I also want an apology from Mr. Faruk Bal.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0220par0429	What are you waiting for, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0218par0430	I'd like an apology.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0220par0431	No, I expect an apology from you, too. You didn't allow me to speak as Speaker, and I'm looking for an apology.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0218par0432	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0221par0435	Mr. President, the AKP Group Deputy Director Ahmet Aydın, who has just been quoted on the stand, has made an assessment of the court's decision. Ankara 5. According to the court's ruling, which is still in effect -- the appeal to stopping the march has been rejected from the district administration tribunal -- it has been halted by the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's 1/10,000-scale transport scheme and 1/100-scale transport, road, intersection and implementation project as opposed to the planning hierarchy. This area is related to the palace, which has already been decided for the Prime Minister, but is now being used by the President. In that case, the petition against the case filed on behalf of the Prime Minister of Time stated that there was no construction here. I mean, even then, the court was given a plea of deception, but the court has now halted the zoning plans for the presidential palace on the grounds that it is a first-degree site. Once again, I felt the need to explain the situation to our esteemed MPs.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0218par0436	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0222par0437	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0218par0438	Here you are, Mr. Aydın. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0222par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. Ankara 5. The executive court's decision to halt the execution has to do with the 2010 plan for zoning 1/10,000 nazim, which covers a large portion of the farm area; this is one, we agree on that. Yeah, there's a decision about that. However, the part of this area that has been halted is related to building construction, and the status of the site of the building has been changed due to the new arrangement in 2011, 1/10. There is no decision to call off or stop any cancellations or executions regarding the part of the 2,000-euro plan that has been changed. The decision, which halted the original plan, also stopped the change. Even though it is respected by the legal opinion, which has been suggested, which we certainly disagreed with, stopping the execution of the nastique plan does not nullify the plans for direct implementation and construction licenses. Again, there are no judicial decisions that have been changed, which are consistent with this plan of nastiness, which has not stopped any cancellations and executions, and that have been the basis of the building license, which has stopped or cancelled the implementation plans. As a matter of fact, Ankara 5. According to the executive court's decision, there has been no cancellations or halting any of the lawsuits that have been filed on the grounds that the construction license must be revoked. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0223par0444	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0224par0445	Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0225par0446	Mr. President, I'm going to make a statement on behalf of the National Party for Action.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0224par0447	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0226par0448	No, Mr. Yilmaz, I promise Mr. Faruk Bal.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0224par0449	I want to make a statement. No, I gave the motion 11. It's about the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0226par0450	Here you go, Mr. Faruk Bal.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0227par0452	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, it is now stated that there are 36 cases involving the escaped palace. Some of them are being handled by political influence on the judiciary, but there's one that hasn't been dealt with, which is 5. It's a ruling from the Supreme Court. AKP Group Deputy Chairman Ahmet Bey says: "5." After the executive court's decision, the development plan changed in 2011.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0228par0454	Not while he's going on, while he's going on the case, not after that.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0227par0455	Therefore, the legal term for this is: The case remains, there is no verdict. This is a policy that AKP has been fundamentally implementing, in Ankara Municipality, İstanbul Municipality, and the cities of the green areas to convert to Ranta, the right of their property to build, a line, a corner-changing plan is being changed while the trial is going on, and they have no subject left to this case by pressing the courts. They provide a rejection of the case. It's a trick against the law. In Istanbul, Ankara, hundreds of our citizens were heavily affected and dragged to bankruptcy. That's why this illegal palace was built here.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0229par0456	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0230par0457	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0229par0461	I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Thursday (27/11/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. [[Ankara]] İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter and his friends gave the 2014-2015 education-year TEOG (TeOG from Basic Education to Central Education) test and the application of student placement to secondary education institutions based on this, no more than 20/11/2014, to investigate the private school support of so-called medrese-style schools, imam-hatip schools and 250,000 students. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Thursday 27/11/2014 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal is İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0231par0474	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have been promised the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate Parliamentary Studies on the Ministry of National Education. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the structural change initiated by the Ministry of National Education has unfortunately turned into structural and permanent chaos over time. The main reason why this has turned into chaos is because the Ministry of National Education has come to a very serious issue, such as education, not from a scientific point of view, but only from a political point of view. That's why scandals have become chases at the Ministry. The latest scandal has been revealed by the posting exams for upper secondary schools, which are referred to as the "TEOG" (the most recent scandal). See, valuable lawmakers, students and their families have been asked to select six schools -- not to mention the school name -- four of them, such as the Anadolu high school, the science high school, the imam-gap high school, the vocational high school, etc., and even though students have chosen four different kinds of schools, especially the imam-hatip high schools they have not chosen. You know what that means? This means that a student's future is forced to be shaped by the Ministry, in a forceful manner, by the Ministry to build its entire life on its own terms. It's against freedom of education. Now, how did that happen? Because the Ministry of National Education has opened a continuous imam-hatip high school with the transition to mandatory education, the number of imam-gap upper secondary schools has increased by 104 per cent, they have been educated with empty quotas since 2011, and now, with the TEOG exam, the student has been forced into this school.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0232par0479	How many?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0231par0480	I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0233par0481	Come on, say it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0231par0482	Whose kids? The children of the family, even the children of the illegitimate families, have suffered from it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0233par0483	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0231par0484	As a result of my application with the Information Act, the number of students who were forced into imam-hatip high school... do you know how many? How many?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0234par0485	About 50.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0231par0486	What's more, 50! 42,000 students, 42,000.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0234par0487	Don't throw it!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0231par0488	Do you know what that is? That's the number of the Ministry of National Education.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0234par0489	Give it to me, give it to me, take it off.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0231par0490	I'll get it from the room.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0235par0491	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0234par0492	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0231par0493	How do you say, "No." Ask your minister, take your answer.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0235par0494	Mr. Speaker, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0234par0495	I asked the Minister, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0235par0496	Congressmans, please, do not interfere with the speaker.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0236par0497	I don't say anything wrong here, especially not about numbers. This means, MPs, understanding that the 24th article of the Constitution, the freedom of religion and conscience, is clearly violated. See, the 24th article of the Constitution states that religion's education and education depends on the wishes of individuals and on the wishes of the legal representatives of minors. Forced students into religious Imam-Hatip upper secondary schools was a violation of the 24th Amendment.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0237par0499	That's right!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0236par0500	You know what this is? This is, as the Prime Minister of the era said: "This is a vindictive youth, the plaintiff of religion and hatred." This is the AKP's project to raise its own Aryan race through TEOG, which is made a tool, which is very clear. That's not all, there are directors of the National Ministry of Education all over Turkey, in its districts, right? None of them see it, there are pirate schools opening up in Turkey one after another. In the heart of Istanbul, in Çengelköy, on Göztepe Street, I'll give you his address -- with the sign "Medrese" opening schools. Under the stairs, under which national education has not been seen for some reason, such underground kindergartens have been opened, which somehow escaped the eyes of the district's national education directors, kindergartens. The Ministry of National Education does not fight pirated schools in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0238par0502	Teacher, let's see.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0236par0503	I'll show you. Under the stairs, pirated schools where little children go and madras where children of advanced age continue. I can give you their address. Now, all of this has been identified as one address at a time. Now, on another subject: TEOG exams were taken, children were forced into schools. Look, there's a lot of students being placed in schools 50 miles, 70 kilometers away. Now, it's your job to investigate these issues, open the door to the investigation in the first place. If you accept everything that has been done perfectly, those children will face the same tribulation as your children in the future. And yet another scandal, the scandal of the American High School of Basekudar. It's a very important, serious school, Base American. What's done? National Education has issued a regulation, and he said: "Private schools will not receive TEOG points. How will they receive students? With special school scores. The school completed its own quota, and from the back came a text from the Chief Education Officer of the District of Sküküdar, writing. You'll get that student with TEOG points. Now, who are we going to complain to? To the minister. We told the minister, what did he do? Nothing, he didn't do anything. These corruptions have always been backed by the AKP and AKP executives in this nepotistic mentality. Look, I'm giving you a concrete example of the nepotism system and how your quotas ended up in the trap. There's a lot of schools, one of which is very typical, Shanliurfa GAP Anadolu High School. The latest student with the TEOG exam scored 381.48. What would you say the student who came through the transfer score, what would that be?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0239par0508	350, 150, 170...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0236par0509	I'll tell you: 48,71; 48...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0239par0510	What do you mean, there's a point like that?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0240par0511	The morality, the humanity, the faith?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0236par0512	Look, guys, 322 points lower, 48.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0239par0513	And in the city of the prophets.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0236par0514	What else? Diyarbakir Necip Fazil Anadolu High School scored 317 points, do you know what the student's score is? 55.4.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0241par0515	You're not giving the right information, that's not true.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0236par0516	What happened, what happened, did the students evaporate, where did they go? How did he win them over?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0241par0517	That's not true, that's not true.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0242par0518	You tell the truth, it's not true. You say it's not true. He got the numbers from national education.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0236par0519	I can give you an example of Ankara. Tütsu High School, 353 last received students, 167 coming through transfer. This is a nepotism system, which is actually completely bankrupt. The timing of the records is malfunctioning. The parents signed the contract, and they registered the records early, and then the quotas were empty, and the parents couldn't get their money back. This is a systematic error. Anatolian high schools were declared quotas, and people registered according to this declared quota. How much do you think the quota has increased, make a guess, how much did the Ministry increase the quota of the Anatolian high schools?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0242par0521	Five goes up, ten goes up.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0236par0522	51 percent up, folks, 51 percent up. That's why this chaos is happening. National education can't be managed. The TEOG system is down, it needs to be investigated. Look, where does the Minister point to the students who don't want to? Open high school. Open high school is an exceptional school. The number of students entering open high schools has increased by 335 per cent in a year. 73 girls of every 100 students register at these high schools in the 9th grade. It's probably not left with this either. Dear friends, students only go to private schools for $800 million in national education. A resource like $800 million has been wasted, just like the FATIH Project has become a dead project, and its resources have been squandered, and scandals have been remembered. Therefore, it is necessary for both power and opposition to conduct this research. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0243par0527	Thank you, Mr. Serker. The first speaker against the Republican People's Party group proposal is Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0244par0531	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you all. We're going to talk about an education. First of all, Professor Dr. Gadri Yıldırım, head of the Living Language Institute Department at Mardin Artuklu University, was taken into custody in a passing corruption operation four days and one word, one word, see, released without asking a word in the interrogation. I said that in the National Ministry of Education budget. We curse it, protest it. It is symbolically the first time that a chapter on Kurdish language education has been opened, where a training is being made, and we will not give up on it -- in particular -- whether it is parallel now, whether it is a provocateur manager, whether it is ulterioristic or whatever it is. I'm telling you, legally and politically, we're asking the Parliament and the Ministry and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to follow up on this, and we're asking both of them. Dear friends, the subject of education is a very troubling subject when it comes to it. I mean, education in 77 million countries, as a minister once said, without students, of course it would be very manageable, but there are millions of students. Now, when there are millions of students, it's a very serious project, a science event, a scientific event, that they're trained from kindergarten to elementary school to a certain point. Education isn't just a puzzle board that anyone can change in their own way. Look, look at America, look at Germany, look at France, the student who started elementary school, the environment, the education, the ability to major, and recently finds out what school he's going to go to. Now, we're looking at this, and we're looking at Turkey, and we're in chaos in every test system, we're in disgrace. After the coup of September 12th, after the Kenan universe, we came to this day. I'm telling you, it started with the SEC, it started with the coup d'état of September 12th, and that's the understanding of the central testing system. Actually, there were two points of understanding. One is to commercialize education -- like health -- privatize education. And some of the ruling authorities, at times, have also used political power to develop, ideologically speaking, some schools -- for example, the imam-gay school. Well, we're looking at, of course, recently, starting from the 2005-2006 school year, there was a translation program for normal high schools -- you know -- in Anatolian high schools. That was after our generation. 2013-2014, it's just been completed. After that, the number of Anatolian high schools is said to have increased by 57 per cent, but then the Anatolian Imam-Halip high school is increasing by 73 per cent. In Turkey, 936 Anadolu imam-hatip upper secondary school, 1,355 imam-hatip secondary schools open, 298 teachers' upper secondary schools close. Here's TEOG, chaos about 1.3 million students... What I'm trying to say is, of course, we need imams, friends, so, 99 percent... But there are imams in Turkey, right? So not every citizen gets an imam, every citizen gets a lawyer, every citizen doesn't get a doctor. I mean, really, if this is the right policy here, then the people who run this country should have tried it on their kids first, their kids should've read the imam-hakids and been imams. But if they go and study in Europe, in the United States, in the UK... well, quite frankly, the former President, the current President, the Prime Minister, why did all their children study abroad, and why didn't they study in these schools? Well, then, there shouldn't be any pressure. So here, someone might want to make their child a sailor, someone might want to make their child an imam, someone might want to make him a doctor. We want to draw attention to a few mistakes that we, as the People's Democratic Party, have seen very clearly and clearly that need to be investigated. So, this pre-TEOG e-school project was launched -- students in schools, families in living standards, how many children are there, how many rooms do they live in, how many rooms do they live in? We're asking, is this the work of education? It was done to teachers, forced on parents, collected data. Come on, if there's a national education, what's the use of TÜİK? Either shut down TÜİK. Shut down national education. One of them should do a job, not be wasteful. However, they put the task of the TÜİK (TİK) on the teachers in the national education. They came up with this information, and they leaked it, guys. Personal data, look, personal rights, constitutional rights. Look, they distributed people's data, so two students in the same class started learning each other's data from their father's flash drive, who earned how much, who lost how much, who got what from the flash drive, who got it from the computer. Now, what we're getting from here is the total monthly income that goes into the house is the work of national education, people? Now, this is really, really bad. After that, this electronic system was seized. You know, it's been in the press, and it's a ministry that makes teachers do the job. On the TEOG exams, we had an earlier discussion of wrong questions, wrong questions. You know, there's been a cancellation. It was the executive court's decision, the bag ran to the law, but let's hurry up with the judicial system so there won't be any loss of rights. We've discussed it in this Parliament. That's what happens when you do it in a hurry. If you rush to judgment, there will be injustice in judgment; that is what happened. Now, there's a weight issue on the distribution of vocational high schools to imam-gatherers. I don't agree with my teacher, they actually killed their vocational high school. If vocational high schools were valued in this country, there wouldn't be butchers going to every tax office, no electricians, no radio, no computers. Since none of this is happening, this country is not being raised, so it's either straight high schools or imams. In fact, vocational schools could be an opportunity for this country, technical schools. They killed them. It's not enough, but when we look at these last routing numbers, we see that it's an ideological configuration. Now, why do we see it? Now, hundreds of miles away, let's say, if you go and send the child of a citizen from Silivri, to Pendik, Kartal, how will it go? He'll be gone in a month, it'll take him a month. How can she go to school? (Reading) means reading. (Reading) Now, we've seen a Jewish student, the rabbi's nephew, who you put in an imam-haki school. Oh, shame, shame, shame! You say Lausanne, they've got schools, they've got education, they've got religion, they've got ethics, they've got points. You're being unfair again when you're ranking your scores. There's a problem here, too. We're looking right at it. The number of students registered automatically says 134,000. We all have 52 grand. The number of schools... the quota deficit is 52,000. Again, we're looking at the numbers right after, in the first row, in the second row, the subject of preferences and the transfer to private schools. Now, the training unions here have made it very clear that it was wrong. Guys, is there a system outside the central system? Is there a system without cheating, where questions aren't stolen? Let's stop making our people and children take tests every day. Let's set up a proper system. Can't the House make a decision about this, clarify the future of our millions of children? Sure. Let the House do its duty. So we're calling on Congress, come on, we've got proposals like this, we've got to combine them, and we've got to set up a comprehensive research commission on education, and we're doing a study on how to save our children's future, and we're going to save Turkey's future. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0245par0546	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The second speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal is Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0246par0550	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the proposal for the establishment of a research commission on the issues of transition from basic education to secondary education. On this occasion, I salute you all. Education has been the main topic of discussion since the AKP government took over. The AKP viewed education as a means of providing political and economic gains and set all its applications on top of that framework. Therefore, the AKP has put every arrangement on pedagogically problematic, and yet politically and economically, it has put it on a full-fledged routing system. But education is the process of building a nation's future. Teachers -- I mean, those who are involved in this education -- are architects who actually build the futures of the nations. However, pedagogy, psychology, and sociology have never had a place for education in AKP's vocabulary, and therefore, the location of profitability, rant and tender has been found in large quantities. The Ministry of National Education is a department with a disability in measurement, selection, evaluation, placement and examination. Every test, the Ministry is screwing it up, offering examples of incompetence and incompetence. The transition exams to secondary school were presented during the AKP rule as constant changes in name and method. There's never been a ruling republican history that plays with education so much. Now, I'm briefly summing this up, what the AKP did from the day it arrived, especially in these mid-school entrance exams: in the first term of the AKP. These exams were called the LGS. As in previous years, the test envisioned that students would take a single test at the end of three years of secondary school. In 2007, during the Minister Huseyin Steel period, the only test with the OKS was lifted, and instead came the Level-determination Exam (SBS) in the 6th and 8th grade. Six, seven, eight, three years had passed since the three-stage Level Determination Exam, which brought the Test of Determination, instead of the three-step examinations by the Minister of the period, Nimet Chobuçic. During the Nabi Hunter era, he went to SBS, where he was replaced by the Basic Education Middle School Passing Exam (TEOG). Last year, during the Nabi Hunter era, the first TEOG exam was taken. The exam also brought up scandals in placement in its entire sense. Do you want to be placed in schools miles away from the students' homes, or do you think a student with 136 points should be placed in a school that requires 356 points, and whatever you look for happened after the TEOG exam. Only 8 classes were prepared for the school where 650 students were placed and 32 classes were supposed to be opened, while 8 new teachers were assigned to more than 100. Degenerate, laubali, nonsensical, sloppy approach only reveals what I'm saying. Go to the parents' schools, identify the schools that are empty, and we will place your child there. The class, the order, the school without a teacher, as I have just told you, countless students have been placed. I'd like to state my conclusion here, now. The problems with TEOG's 1st exam are evident. The problems with TEOG's second application are also at hand. Therefore, the establishment of the research commission on TEOG is a matter of support by all who are wise, have common sense and have not rented their conscience; we support it. Dear lawmakers, education is not a challenge. No political mentality has the right to ignore and disrupt institutions, structures and traditions. Governments do not have the right to ignore structures formed in history, in education, culture, politics or social areas. Rebuilding, constantly changing, or transforming every institution or structure for political purposes is not the work of great states, it is the work of tribal heads. It's their long tradition, their grandmothers and their history that makes the nations great. You can't ignore the traditions, history, and grandmothers of this nation. Education is a strategic and long-term process. Not according to the needs of ministers or governments, but according to the needs of society. The changing and changing educational system is causing chaos and chaos. During the AKP, children became guinea pigs in the constantly changing test systems of young people. This also shows that AKP has no principles, no preparation or norms for education. The puzzle, the experiment, the error, the change; that's the way it's done. No one has the right to gamble with the future of Turkey's children, the AKP has no right. At this stage, the biggest problem of Turkish national education is AKP's partisan, unfair, unfair policies. That shouldn't be allowed anymore. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has experienced doubts about many issues involving citizens of Turkey of almost all ages from the recent university exam to the safety exam, from the SBS test to the ALES exam. Some of the exams were admitted to error, and the candidates were sent an apology letter, some were investigated, and some were cancelled. I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you of a test that's interesting and thought-provoking. I'd like to talk about an exam by the Ministry of National Education for executives. Now I'd like to share a very clear data with all of you: Turkish Unionization rate in Turkey is 22 percent, education is 12 per cent, education is 4 per cent. The number of members is 26 per cent. 9 per cent of those currently managing in the public are Turkish Education-SEN. So it's 9 per cent against 22 per cent. If you're 4%, you're 9%. EDUCATION-BIRD-SEN, a 26 per cent union teacher, has 81 per cent of the share in the administration. Mathematically, I'm telling you, the fact that the supporting union, which has 26 per cent of the teachers, has 81 per cent of the school administrators, shows that 55 per cent of the AK PARTI quota is being used. We face 55 per cent of treason, 55 per cent of rights. The numbers make it very clear. There's nowhere to run, nowhere to go. I mean, they come out, they talk, they recite. What are you talking about, brother? Your Prime Minister Davutoglu has a month's rent of 52,720 liras. Get out, explain this. I want to know if there are any other servants of God who live in a house for 52,720 liras in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0247par0558	Don't move your hands!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0246par0559	Dear lawmakers, such a bargain and such injustice have never been seen in the history of the Republic. This attitude has no explanation, no logic, no morality, no meaning. It's a job for tent heads, not the state of law, to wipe out those who are thought to be against national education. The government must answer for this. The Ministry must investigate immediately. As a whole, the minister must apologize to those who are supposed to take the exam. There's only one explanation for what happened, which is that partisanism in national education has reached its peak.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0247par0560	Don't move your hands!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0246par0561	You did the shame here, that's what I'm talking about. The year is 2014, Mr. Nabi is Minister of Hunters. With a law passed, the duties of all school principals are terminated and instead tested, 92 per cent of those who take over 90 points to become principal in exams -- the results of the examinations -- are here -- are members of the AKP pro-EDUCM-BIR-SEN union. I have the list, the results are here. I protest against those who make such injustice a test, those who declare it a consequence, as the Grand Prophet did, by taking the test results under my feet, and chewing on it!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0248par0565	Hodja, calm down, don't do it, Hodja.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0246par0566	I'll leave this here; come and get it, study it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0249par0568	Mr. Hodja, do you think it's appropriate?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0246par0569	You're taking out 16,000 managers in one day. Are you a fascist or a Maoist?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0250par0570	Come on, Hodja.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0249par0571	There's no need to be angry, everyone's doing what's right for them; my teacher's doing what's right for him.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0251par0572	Does it look good on the academy?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0252par0573	Would you please remove the book?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0253par0574	Mr. President, these behaviors don't suit a teacher, a lecturer, a citizen, a congressman.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0254par0575	You've destroyed people's homes! You've broken up the nests, the nests!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0252par0576	Mr. Avni Erdemir is the last speaker of the Republican People's Party group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0255par0579	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the Republican People's Party Group's motion for research on transition from basic education to secondary education. I salute you all. Dear friends, we are a country with a young population, a country with more students than most countries. On average, we place and register over 1,300,000 middle-school students with central deployment each year. Is there any problem at all? I wish I did. There was OCD yesterday, there was SBS. Critics for OKS and SBS deployment have also been made in this Parliament. Come over here for once, and let's see what's in the glass. TEOG is a system that takes school and teacher to the center of education, predates school success, counts the teacher as the main element of the system, so let's see this. Yeah, come on, let's just say what's wrong with this system, concretely.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0256par0581	The teacher just told you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0255par0582	We await your realistic scientific assessment beyond political polemix. Come on, say: yesterday we were very critical, but OKS, SBS, was better than this system. You can't say that because TEOG is a system that strengthens a relationship between students and teachers and schools that is broken or even broken. And why these criticisms? Yes, these criticisms are either politically involved or because they don't know the TEOG system or because they don't know the system. THE main quality of TEOG is to determine student success by spreading it into a wide range of time, not based on a momentary performance. The goal is to strengthen the student, teacher and school relationship, strengthen the role of the school and teacher in the process, ensure co-execution of the curriculum across the country, extend the exam period, improve the vocational performance of teaching, reduce the need for extra-school education institutions, compensate for the negatives from one test, evaluate the student's social, cultural, artistic and athletic activities in the middle and long term. Dear friends, we need to remember that TEOG is a transparent, open system, a system that is uncompromising. You can find everything in this system, beauty, but you'll never find chaos, and you'll never find forced placement in this system, you'll never see it. You don't know the system, so you have to put it in place. Yes, dear friends, when we look at the application of TEOG, we see that in the 8th grade for 6 basic lessons, one of the periodical exams conducted by the teacher was done by the central system. What lessons are these? Turkish, mathematics, science and technology, culture of religion and morality, the history of the revolution, the foreign language. Yes, our students are being placed in a higher education with valuable friends at YEP points, their grades in the 6th, 7th, 8th grade, and the examination of the teacher from the 6th grade with the centralized system. Dear friends, there's never an app for base points in this placement. All students who finish the eighth grade can choose to place. Preferences can be made either from the category A or from the type B by school preference. Dear friends, students who score points on group A preferences, wherever their address is, they're automatically installed in schools by the e-school system. I repeat, dear friends can make 15 choices in category A according to students' scores, 15 choices in Turkish schools all over Turkey can choose separately and place them according to system scores. Students who can't get into group A preferences are placed to one of the four schools they prefer from group B, with preference priorities taken into consideration, their residences, addresses taken into consideration, so there's no uncompromised placement, precious friends; there's a point, there's an address, there's an address, there's an empty quota, there's a system based on that, and as a result of the deployment, transfer facilities are known within September.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0257par0588	Is that why the son of a citizen who lives in Tuzla was registered to Silivri? I mean, that man's residence is Tuzla, the school record leads to Silivri, sir!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0255par0589	Dear friends, remember, the point I'm going to point out is that high school is now within the scope of mandatory training. Thus, the Ministry of National Education automatically links everyone who finishes the 8th grade to a school. Why? So he wouldn't be a fugitive. Dear friends, take a look at the results: 1,300,000 students graduated from the 8th grade. Yes, 1 million,300,000 students chose 136, and 134,000 students did not. Who are they? Students who wanted to go to private school, who studied in minority school and wanted to go to minority high schools didn't choose, but the system also connects these students so that they don't become fugitives. Dear friends, 1 million,77,000 students -- I've just expressed -- settle for one of the 15 choices he made in group A -- based on his points. Look, he wants 1,77,000 students from 1,300,000, which he prefers -- wherever he is in Turkey -- he can move to school, dear friends. Most of these, yes, only 240 thousand of the 1,300,000 students, according to school species, have just expressed themselves in category B. Most of them are students who don't choose to go to private schools or minority schools. In short, dear friends, for whatever reason, the system places those who don't choose to go to minority high school, those who don't choose to go to private school, those who don't make coding mistakes, those who don't want to go to minority high school because they finished minority middle school. Some say: "A student who has graduated from a minority school goes to imam-haki. " These students are associated with imam-haki high school, which they did not choose. This student's guardian goes to school, whatever private school, whatever minority school he's going to before he goes to Imam-Hakip high school, goes straight to that school and registers his student there. There's no such thing as forced entry to imam-hatred. And, dear friends, I'm having a hard time understanding what this imam-gay allergy is. Yes, recently, media broadcasts have shown imam-gap schools as if they were forced, mandatory schools that no one wanted to go to, against their will. That's never true either, dear friends. There is a total quota of 216,216k in the Turkish Imam-Halip High School. The number of students who prefer imam-hatip high schools is 359,000 on the list of 15 schools, which is the preferred list. Yeah, how do we register by force? I'm speaking to you, dear friends. I'd like to read from the quota of 216 thousand, Imam-journalists. The number of preferees is 359,000. The number of students who ranked first in the 15th place of the Imam-hating high schools, dear friends, is 93 thousand. In the 1st place, 54 thousand can only be settled. Dear friends, in short, I want you to remember that Imam-hating high schools are not forced admissions. Dear friends, Imam-hating high schools are not a place for racism, they've just been expressed, dear friends. Remember: The Imam-hating high schools are the spirit of the people, the school of the people, the nation is the protector, the nation is the preferred, the people are the preferred. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I also want to correct a misdemeanor that has just been said, over 42,000 students have been forced to register as imams. No, 42,000 of the students who don't choose group B are being placed on imam. Why don't you see this, dear friends, when 71,000 students are being placed in a vocational high school and they don't prefer it? I simply want to say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've never built a room of persuasion to send students to imam-gap high schools, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0258par0601	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. I will vote for the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0259par0603	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit02spe0258par0604	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0258par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the proposal... Those who don't agree... There's a disagreement between the clerks; I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision has enough, the group proposal has not been accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now, we're going to vote for members of the People's Democratic Party Group, which are available in some commissions. Mersin MP Ertuğrul Kürkcı for membership found idle in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel for membership available in the Environment Commission. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkcı for membership available in the European Union Commission for Integration. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Mardin MP Erol Dora for the free membership of the Justice Commission. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the third place, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and Isparta MP Recep Special and 52 MPs; Judges and Prosecutors' Law and Adjudications of Laws and Laws under the Law of Laws and Laws; Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan; 59 of the 1512 Notary Law; 59 of the Notary Law. The Law Proposal for the Resolving of Laws Against Diseases of Noters in Articles, İstanbul MP Aydın Ajan Ayadın; Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Judges and Prosecutors 2802; Justice and Development Party Chairs Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın, Kahrimarash MP Mahir Ünal, İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Line and Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı; 33 MPs to be held under the Law and Laws of Justices and Laws and Laws; We shall hold a proposal to be held by the Chair of Justices and Laws and Laws. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Under Article 91 of the Civil Code, Article 20 of the first chapter was adopted in the last joint session of the proposal, which was considered the basic law. Now, we're going to discuss Article 21. In Article 21 there are three motions. The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 21 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ahmet Toptaş Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk Gürkut Acar Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 21st of Law Proposal 655. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0260par0066	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0258par0067	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0261par0068	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0258par0069	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0262par0071	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the 21st article of the proposal is one of the most important. This article organises the election of memberships to the 196 · Global Voices in order to provide the majority in the Court. After the election is made, the presidential board will be re-created with the newly elected members. The newly formed presidential board will redesign a business department again, depending on the business situation in these apartments, along with the new agencies, which will start back and forth between the apartments. We have reason to believe that certain files will go to specific locations, and we will later express them, but the presidential board, which will appear under the influence of political will, is, of course, against the rule of judgement, as to which agency to look at the case. On the other hand, after these apartments have been established, the presidential board will decide which members will serve in these apartments, and which presidents will serve in them, and so will a Statement under the influence of political will. What does the court do? He supervises the legality of the administration's work and procedures. Thus, the Danishtay, which is set up to control political will, government, rule, law enforcement in this democratic system, is, unfortunately, a decision-making institution under the influence of political will. Where did this come from, and why did this happen? Fighting the parallel. That's the bottom line. Let's sit on a curve, let's talk straight. Dear friends, if you're going to fight the parallel, do it within the law. According to law, the rule of character and legality of crimes is that whoever committed the crime, either take the punishment or apply it to legal means of punishment, but instead, based on a mass view of it, it does not mean fighting the entire body of law, the Supreme Court, the State, the HSYK, by politicizing the HSYK. Even though you call it the statistical struggle, it's not a struggle for independence; it's a direct way to eliminate the evidence that was uncovered during the 17-25 December operations and render them ineffective by creating a psychological perception. Millions of dollars, millions of euros can't be eliminated in cases, suitcases, boxes, clothes bags that were discovered during December 17th-25th operations. Attempting to lift it like this is incompatible with democratic values. However, you also want to take care of other matters. Throughout your rule, you have suspended the provisions of the Constitution of the 138th Amendment, including the law, the execution, and all others. You are not satisfied with this suspended sentence, but you have also passed a law in this parliament to eliminate the courts' decisions on corruption. In order to destroy the court's decision on the Oymapınar Dam, which was given as a bonus at the Sejdişehir Aluminum House, you passed a law from this parliament. You have issued a law from this parliament that will not apply the court decisions that determine corruption in the privatisation of 14 per cent of the shares of SECA and TUPRASH, in the Port of Kuşadas, in the Port of Cesme, in the Port of Cesme. Therefore, you have taken one step to discrediting the House, as well as discrediting the law. My dear friends, come and give it up. Come and give it up, because it's a law proposal that eliminates constitutional and universal values. There is no point in destroying those blessed and holy values that have been achieved through great struggles throughout mankind's history, such as independence of the judiciary, neutrality of the judiciary, and the assurance of justice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On the Day when every soul will answer, and no soul will be left unaccounted for. Come, have a pleasant sedan in the sky.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0263par0081	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading other proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 21 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Signatories of the other proposal: Gürkut Acar (Antalia) and friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0264par0089	He doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0263par0090	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0265par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0266par0092	Mr. President of Reason...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0263par0093	I'm reading the reason: We demand that this provision, organised by the temporary clause, be removed from the draft text, due to the fact that we are opposed to the other provisions in this bill and that we want it to be lifted. Mr. Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0267par0099	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the Law Proposal 655. I would like to point out that we agree with the amendments to the Law on Judges and Prosecutors. It has been a long time since there was a need for improvements that would make it easier for judges and prosecutors to serve, to improve their economic conditions. However, the government attempted to undermine their will in the election by bringing this need up on the eve of the HSYK elections, as if offering judges and prosecutors money. I'd also like to point out that I don't think that's true. The job of a judge is a very difficult job, my friends. Judgement requires savings, confidence in itself, conscience. In Turkey, it is difficult to rule, especially when the AKP is in power. Citizen takes the power of the weak citizen from the judiciary. The judge is the power of a weak citizen, the place to take refuge. In particular, in legal cases with administration, in their legal problems, all their power over governance is independent judgment. However, it is not difficult to understand how difficult it is to judge a country where even the president can declare treason, even judges who make decisions in a way that he does not like. You're making a improvement that we can call yes, but it's not just judges and prosecutors who serve in the courthouse. If you think that they are all members of the court, if you go to improve them under more difficult circumstances, you will only be victimizing the judges and prosecutors' salaries, and you will not satisfy the judges and prosecutors. Because a system where people who work with him are victims, a system where they're victimized, judges and prosecutors don't accept it, they don't. Dear friends, as we live in every era, the AKP has been constantly implementing the technique of making laws when it needs to make laws, not according to the needs of society. Where did this law come from? So now, what does he want to do by raising the number of members in the Supreme Court to 516, almost twice as many, and more than twice as many members in the Court? Now, the reason for this proposal is repeated, but it says: "What Turkey needs is to ensure the construction that will return the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals to its court. For this reason, it raises the number of members of the Supreme Court from 250 to 387, then from 387 to 516, and again, almost doubles the number of court members. Dear friends, I have another bill, a draft of Mr. Prime Minister, the current President Mr. Erdogan, dated 8/11/2007. Again, on the grounds of this bill, the Supreme Court wants to reduce the number of Supreme Court members from 250 to 150, as well as reduce the number of apartments, on the grounds that the Court must be a court of law and a court of law in the implementation of the jurisprudence. So, for the same reason, you're thinking about reducing the number of members of the Supreme Court, you're thinking about reducing the number of apartments, which is the same reason you're multiplying the number of members of the Supreme Court and the District Attorney and the number of apartments to 2. With what wisdom, with what logic, with what conscience will you explain this? There's no explanation for that, fellas. The explanation for this is that the AKP will create a judicial system in accordance with its own demands; it will gather on one side the judges who have pledged their own corruption, their own injustices, their own flaws, and will put them in charge of the decision-making mechanism and try to save themselves. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, Mr. President says that whatever law you apply under the rule of a cruel sultan, the citizen is under persecution.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0268par0108	Your time is up, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0267par0109	If Sultan is cruel, no matter what law you enforce, the citizen is already under persecution, and this citizen will break it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0268par0112	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The 22nd article has three motions, and the first two motions I'm going to read are the same thing, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Ertugrul Kürkçı Hasip Kaplan The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan İkturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Gürkut Acar Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 22nd of the current Law Proposal, 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0269par0137	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0268par0138	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0270par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0268par0140	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0271par0143	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with this clause of the proposal, we move to the Supreme Court, and we face an offer on the creation of eight new apartments in the Supreme Court. My dear friends, in other articles of this proposal, the number of members of the Supreme Court will be raised to 517. This is a world record, with no other 517 members in the world. Why is this needed? It is needed on the grounds that the additional workload in the court will be taken care of. There was an offer from the current President, the Prime Minister of the past, to be reduced by the establishment of a bill sent to this Parliament in 2007, and therefore by the establishment of the Judiciary's employment courts, and thus by the increase of the Supreme Court members, that 250 members will be reduced to 150. What has changed since 2007? Nothing's changed. Only the Justice and Development Party, which resists the establishment of law courts, made its own legal reform in 2010 later on. This links law reform to the Constitutional Amendment and is approved by referendum. As the results have been reached, they have been separated from their allies as they walk along the roads, wet with the rain. Why did it open? We don't know that. After their break, the 17-25 December operation faced a corruption investigation that reached the 4 ministers, their children, their relatives, their bureaucrats, and then the Prime Minister of that period. What is expected of the AKP is that if there is justice within it, in a democratic understanding, it is independent, neutral, within the scope of independence and neutrality, allowing those who have been accused to be judged fairly, paying attention to their standards of innocence, but it did not. Immediately, he began a war of sovereignty against the group he described as the congregation. And here's the law that we're talking about today, it's one of the lines of position in the struggle for sovereignty. To gain control of the Supreme Court, there are more than 250 members in 2007. The AKP says this time breaks a world record by increasing the number of members of the Supreme Court to 517. What happens with this broken world record? The shape of the judge will be changed by schematics. There's a board in the Supreme Court called the First Presidential Board. The AKP will take over the majority on that board. Under AKP's political image, that council will decide on how to distribute business to the judicial and criminal agencies in the Supreme Court, so the files will go between the apartments. Those who touch the Zulfura will go to the apartments where the majority of them are supposed to be allies. Members of these agencies will be replaced, examination judges will be replaced, so the Supreme Court, which is expected to decide on behalf of the Turkish nation, will establish justice according to what is supposed to come from the high hills of the AKP. My dear friends, this is contrary to the Constitution; it is contrary to human rights; it is contrary to the universal values of democracy; it violates the principle of the judge's assurance that we believe to be sitting in a prophet's skin; this is the form of your evil intent to judge Turkey as it goes towards one party, and beyond that one man's rule. I wish for my sanity to prevail. In the future, you will feel the need to be judged; there are judges of this country who you can trust, believe, and rest in peace. Do not be deprived of a judicial system that you can call it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0272par0149	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and friends The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends. Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0273par0158	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0272par0159	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0274par0160	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0272par0161	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0275par0163	Congressmans, while I'm discussing this motion, I'm going to address the lawmakers of the EC PARTY. You know, in this case, it's not about limiting lawyers' right to holy defense; it's about eliminating them, not doing their duty, not eliminating their file. This is contrary to international contracts, violation of the ECHR decisions, violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, violation of the Civil Convention, violation of the Constitution of 90, contrary to 20 Constitutional Articles, contrary to the Constitution. Now, I'd like to remind you from here to the esteemed lawmakers of the AK PARTY, the lawmakers, the lawmakers: Look at this robe of yours. When you get a defense license, when the internship's over, you take that robe, you swear before you get a license. I will remind you of the oath the lawyers took when they took that license: I swear on my honor and conscience that I will act in honor of law, morality, the honor of the profession, and the rules of the profession. Again: I swear on my honor and conscience that I will act in honor of the law, morality, and the code of the profession. You can be in the House, you can be in the special authority court, you can be on the street, you can be wherever you are, you're a lawyer, a lawyer, a lawyer, a defender, you have to do what you have to do as someone who's taken such an oath. If you're not doing this properly and he's coming to the House with your motions, your proposals, your signatures, this kind of law proposal, in a profession, in the profession of a lawyer, there's nothing more dangerous in the world than that, friends, I'm telling you. And I'm telling you again, if this clause passes, I'm going to issue a list of all lawmakers from the AK PARTY, and I'm going to report it to their bar. I've never complained of a lawyer in my life for 30 years, but if they raise their hands to limit their duty of law, to limit their sacred duty, to those barrooms, to do what they need to do about them, I'm going to send your names because they've restricted them, and I'm going to be a follower of you at the Istanbul Bar, the Constabulary Bar, the Changırı Bar, the Izmir Bar, all of them.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0276par0168	There's a scholarship too, Bursa.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0275par0169	All of them. Look, I'll come back after I follow you, I'll explain it here in Congress. Have fear of God. I mean, what's it like, what's it like? Yeah, you know Moliere, we never had masters, but they never had slaves, lawyers, lawyers. Don't move, gentlemen! Politics, position, position, promotion, transfer, not the tender office; politics is made to serve the country, to serve the nation. First of all, you're gonna stand up for yourself. If you're a lawyer, if you're a congressman here, if you can't defend your rights, if you can't defend your profession, if you can't do what you're sworn to do, you shouldn't go out into society and into the baron. When you come out, your name should be hung on the walls. These lawyers made that law. It's a question of accountability. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I speak frankly: I will advertise you, I will publish you; I will put up posters; I will put up posters; I will print your pictures; these are the oaths that the lawyers have made, and they have brought this law to the House, and they have done it. I'll say to the barmen: "O Bar Association, this is what these lawyers have done."
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0277par0174	What did he do?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0275par0175	Appreciation is yours, conscience is yours. You haven't lost it yet. There's still time. Look, I'll explain it to you in a couple of motions. You have time, think hard, think amongst yourselves. Either get out of here, run or be careful, I'll carry on the result. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Respect for now.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0278par0179	I'll support Mr. Hasip.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0279par0180	We support it, too.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0280par0181	The other speaker on the motions is Mr. Omar Süha Aldan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0281par0183	Thank you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the 22nd and 28th amendments of this proposal are related to the regulation of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court had an explanation a few days ago. Actually, we're kind of surprised, too, to see if we could do a puzzle speech. Because the bill sent by the government to parliament on May 12, 2014 was passed by law number 6545. There was a sentence like this: We remove the concept of punishment and legal courts in the Supreme Court. We're not going to make a legal arrangement of this, in the process the Supreme Court was going to distribute the mission within itself, that was the goal. They also said we're changing the Presidential Council. The first operation, unfortunately, ended in defeat. Now, this is operation phase two. A total of 129 new members will be elected to the Supreme Court and 23 fines will be formed, 23 legal offices will be formed, which is the opposite of June 2014. We're really surprised as opposition MPs that we don't want to fall into the puzzle position, just like we did in our previous conversation, like power. Really, we said then, it's a very important thing to major in punishment and law. It's an important concept. It's not the right approach to dislodge criminal and legal agencies, redesigning them, just because we're going to do an operation there. For years, we said you'd send people who specialize in punishment to the legal office to disrupt the Supreme Court's structure. But here, yes, this is an operation, and the number of members of the Supreme Court will rise to 516. But the point, my dear friends, is that if you're trying to invade a place, if your whole target is focused on occupying it, you can't understand the culture of the place you're occupying, that's the problem. Judgement has its own culture, its own traditions within the judiciary. But when all the understanding, the sign, the goal sign, was to take possession of the sign, you skipped that culture. That's the problem we're having today. That's why the judgment is out of the question, and we're going to face even more dire consequences in the process. This, I think, is a painting that needs to be focused on very, very much. Let's not forget that now the new Supreme Court's criminal offices, law offices, will make some decisions, which can cause different people to react in the social community, and change will continue in the process. And there's a painting where there are 516 members, 46 apartments, just so that the objective in the Supreme Court can take place. That means at least 11 members will fall into each apartment. This has nothing to do with total work or business. On the one hand, we're going to set up law courts, and we've recorded time for that, and when the court of law is going to take place immediately, just four months, five months from now, how well does raising the number of members of the Supreme Court to 516 put the Supreme Court on trial? Here's the last thing I want to say: don't play with judgment, don't play with judgment, don't play with judgment. That's a very important promise. That judgment... in the 2011 election, at the sweet time of the coalition, I said we were creating your own Frankenstein, and now you're trying to kill that Frankenstein, he won't die. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0282par0187	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions in Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the exchange of Section 23 of the current Law Proposal 655 in the following manner. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Oya Eronat "The first sentence of Article 14 of Article 23-2797 of the Law has been lifted from the scope of the first sentence, which "has been determined as a legal or criminal office" in the same joke. Congressmans, the motions I'm going to make you read now are of the same nature, I'm going to make you read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı The secret is Tarayya Leader Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Jesus Gök Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 23rd amendment of Law Proposal No. 655. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0283par0220	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0282par0221	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0284par0222	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0282par0223	Mr. Alim Ik will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0285par0226	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in order to remove the contract from the proposal text of Article 23 of the current bag of law, number 655. I hereby salute the High Council. The reason for our motion is that this arrangement, the newly brought arrangement, constitutes a violation of the Constitution, because, in its previous case, the matter of the relevant law was envisioned by the Supreme General Assembly of the Supreme Court as a legal or criminal office of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court, but it is now requested to be removed. Instead, under the influence of the ruling party, there is an arrangement to say yes to any decision. With this arrangement, members of the apartments will be redesigned, and then they will be re-arranged as requested by the new arrangement. In this way, as we have seen in many other articles before, if the proposal becomes legal, it seems that Turkey will now continue to lose its constitutional state of law, and it will be inevitable to face many problems in practice. They've just expressed valuable speakers, thanks to you, Turkey is setting a world record, thanks to the number of members made by this new regulation in the Supreme Court, because, of course, in a country run by the world's leader, the world's record is very important to you. The world leader, who was shot down by Syria in 2012, and why the pilots who were killed here were still shot down today, and why some of the systems that were deliberately tried to kill those pilots, unfortunately our world leader has never been able to explain to us why they were sent there by someone. You will find it difficult to explain many of the problems that will arise from these arrangements. Dear lawmakers, this proposal is a government bill that has been signed and brought here by several public institutions and organisations, only a few MPs, who have been handed over without the opinion of the agency. So, the relevant barmen, we didn't express any opinion about it. They say so.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0286par0232	They did. He did, he did.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0285par0233	Look, there's articles from the barrooms. I've got a press release from the Kopeeli Bar and some of the articles he sent to you. You've got other bars.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0286par0234	He's here.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0285par0235	The Chairman of the Supreme Court has made a statement, you're making arrangements in the Supreme Court, the President doesn't know.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0286par0236	How could he not know?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0287par0237	He doesn't know about the president's organization.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0285par0238	The D.A. doesn't know about this or the president doesn't.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0286par0239	Why don't you ask the members of the Justice Commission? Ask them, ask them, or ask the Minister.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0285par0240	Dear lawmakers, it is impossible to accept what has been done, and none of these arrangements will be enough to cover up the irregularities and corruption committed by the Justice and Development Party governments. Whatever you do, you will also be tried by illegal palaces, and anyone mentioned in corruption and corruption operations will be tried for millions of dollars, millions of euros. No matter how many press restrictions you bring, no matter what decision you ask the prosecutor to make, one day this judgment will surely work, and those who do so will surely be questioned. No matter who lays a hand on people's property, I don't claim to be in this House, but if someone is brokering some of the people who work in this House, please don't be the middleman of this nation's property. Let's not get these illegal arrangements out of here. I await your support of our motion, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0288par0243	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0289par0252	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0288par0253	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0290par0254	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0288par0255	Mr. Erol Dora will speak on one of the motions, Mardin MP, please.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0291par0256	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group over Article 23 of the People's Party Act on the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors No. 655, and on the amendments to Article 23 of the Law and Legislature. I salute the General Assembly. Article 23 of the proposal is another example of the government's policy to step forward and take two steps back -- which is observed throughout the law's proposal. In accordance with the procedure noted in previous articles, the determination of communication with Law 6526 as a forward step with Law 6526 in February 2014, following December 17th-25 corruption and bribery operations, was expected to be carried out by the severe criminal courts, and more importantly, unanimous. The decision to determine communication with the new arrangement is intended to be given by court-martials or court-martials instead of severe criminal courts. Dear lawmakers, another step back from this clause is to make it legal and natural for everyone who is not in the same political opinion and opposes the government to be listened to by adding crimes against the security of the state and the addition of crimes against constitutional order and the functioning of this order. In this context, and in the media, it is wise to remember that the peace courts named after the Supreme Court can make decisions on listening and technical surveillance throughout Turkey in the process of investigating organised crime. The military court, the state security courts, the new address of the special authority court tradition, apparently, will now be peaceful criminal courts, as a means of suppressing, crushing, and digesting the system's historical missions throughout the Republic's history. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it is not appropriate that there is no doubt that the provision of the detection of communication included in Article 135/6 of the Law on Criminal Law on Proposal is not included. According to this, the detection of the suspect and the defendant's communication through telecommunications will now be the judge in the investigation phase and the court's decision in the prosecution phase. However, what elements and what criteria will the judge or the court act on when deciding to rule this measure? It should not be forgotten that the detection of communication -- of course -- is a milder intervention than the listening and recording of communication, but this measure is an intervention in privacy and freedom of communication. Dear lawmakers, if there is a limitation of basic rights and freedoms protected by the Constitution, then the basic rights and freedoms imposed by this measure must be constrained in accordance with the Constitution, even if the content of communication is not learned. Therefore, the CMK must be explicitly added to the decision on what degree of doubt is predicted as the 135/6 arrangement for communication. Otherwise, it is clear that the CMK Article 135/6 arrangement is an intervention in the privacy of private life and freedom of communication in an unconstitutional way due to the danger of leading to arbitrary decisions. With these thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0292par0263	Thank you. The other speaker is Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0293par0267	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with love and respect. I have been promised to speak on the 23rd article of the proposal of the law. When I start the job, when we expect that there will be a change of law due to the minister and the undersecretary in the HSYK, the universal rule of law, the independence of the law, the rule of law, the rule of law, and the rule of law will improve, at which point, there will be no worse than this. This law proposal, which is called the new judicial package, is the worst point of democracy. I believe that the offer that narrows our freedoms is not moral because of its purpose to prepare, beyond the fact that it is contrary to the principles of the state of law. The proposal is intended to suppress freedom of speech, freedom of speech, political work and organisation. There is no correlation with the principles of the legal state of law to search the premises, to make it easier for suspects to be arrested, to rest, and to seize their possessions. In no democratic law state, two judicial packages, which are exactly the opposite of each other seven months apart, are not prepared. What reason of seven months ago changed today, which is why we're facing a new amendment? Laws in the legal state need to be general, objective and stable. There are constitutional and universal principles in the form of law-enforcement, law-enforcement, and law-enforcement, but the opposite of the law that was passed in our country seven months ago is a personal law that is wanted, which is why we are no longer a state of law. Principles such as the rule of law, the separation of powers, the independence of justice are the concepts that have always been established in centuries so that the rulings can act in accordance with the law. In our case, these concepts have been completely drained. All the final judicial packages are packages designed according to what the government thinks about opening or opening investigations, aimed at creating a judgment in harmony with the execution, aimed at interfering with HSYK, the judiciary, the Supreme Court, the State. While all judiciary is supposed to be the judiciary of universal law, the most democratic methods are being applied to make it the judiciary of power and the amendments are being brought to our attention. The constraint of the right to defend, the seizure of all property of the suspect or the defendant, the lack of concrete evidence, the giving of superpowers to the justices of the peace, the complete constraint of fundamental rights and freedoms, is to return to the Middle Ages. In our so-called democracy-run country, it is not possible to accept the gathering of legislation, executive and judiciary in one hand. Men's separation is the most important tool to protect and protect citizens against power. My dear friends have told me before that this judgment may one day be needed to all. For him, we need to protect those universal rules, laws of law, thinking that we may all need one day when we're making a change in judgment. We have to act accordingly. We're making changes without thinking about who's going to be in the hands of a position that's been given this much authority, who's going to protect and who's going to be the victim again. We don't agree that we should bend from a state of law ruled by democracy, neutral and universal legal values to a state ruled by the law of the jungle overnight. We think it's better to get back from this mistake in the first place. One day you'll be in trouble if you persist in the wrong. We urge all of you to respect justice and the rule of law and to abandon the practices that will destroy the independence of the judiciary in order to stop this process, which eliminates the division of forces, which threatens the future of our republic. With changes to the Supreme Court and the State's organization structure, it is sought to achieve an unethical goal, not to establish the rule of law, but to ensure rule of law. What the AKP said yesterday and what it wants to say today is constantly contradicting. Where the world's democratic law states rule, the political will doesn't make such arbitrary moves on the judiciary, I say, one day it doesn't make decisions and ruin the next day. I salute you all with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0294par0281	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the exchange of Section 23 of the current Law Proposal 655 in the following manner. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends "The first sentence of Article 14 of Article 23-2797 of the Law has been lifted from the scope of the first sentence, which "has been determined as a legal or criminal office" in the same joke. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0295par0289	It's in the discretion of the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0294par0290	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0296par0291	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0297par0292	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0294par0293	I'm reading the reason: It is mandatory to determine the number of legal and criminal agencies in the Supreme Court as a result of the rule of law by which the Supreme General Assembly has been appointed as a legal or penal office. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions in the 24th article. Now, the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 24 of the current law proposal 655 be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Leader Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Mahmut Tanal Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 24th Amendment proposal of the current 655 rows. We propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0298par0322	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0294par0323	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0299par0324	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0294par0325	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0300par0327	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the essence of this law proposal is to distribute the balance and control tools within the judiciary, as well as to disrupt them. With this clause, the Supreme Court's attorney's right to state's opinion, so that prosecutors working under the republic's prosecutor's name can be protected from external influences, to protect the government's political authority against the political savings of HSYK. Now, on this occasion, I'd like to give you an example of what a serious situation we're facing. Mr. Rights Villager, I hope he's here. Mr. Hakkı is the former Attorney General of Erzurum. In 1997, the PKK was infested with prisons, where the state force could not enter. He was indeed a great hero there, and he made a great effort to establish the order of the state, the order of the state in prisons, and he succeeded. We're going to look at what such a successful prosecutor is doing now, and we're going to find out together that this clause is unconstitutional so that the state prosecutors don't fall. Journalists have said backstage that two days before the withdrawal of the ballots, including the 17-25 December operations established in parliament, Hakkı Bey was to be elected as Commissioner of the Commission -- in the press. It's a coincidence that Mr. Hakkı became a member of the Commission in the first draft, and he was elected President at the first meeting. So far, so good. The problem is: Without meeting, he returned files on December 17th to 25th corruption operations to the prosecutor's office on the same day. The reason is for these files to be returned by adding to the array compasses. It turns out that the sequence compass is in the file, but the files that went through came in half as much as uranium. So, 34 files went there, the folder went there, the file came in -- if I don't remember correctly -- came in as 11 folders. Let's just settle for that, and let's see what's going on. So there's nothing to deny, all of us, all of us, have seen it. Here, all hours, millions of dollars, euros have been seen in suitcases, there is nothing to hide, there is nothing to hide. He's issued a restraining order on the work and procedures seen in the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. He's making a confidentiality decision. Dear friends, first of all, have mercy! This nation has the right to be informed of corruption, a universal right. Two: This application to press freedom and free press is censorship, censorship is an unacceptable human value. Thus, a decision weighed in beet cantars was revealed when the values should be weighed by the scale of jewelry scales in front of the law, by measuring, by measuring, by measuring, by the principle of intangible innocence of these values. My dear friends, this decision is also the decision to put a mortgage on the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is also the intervention of the judiciary in an investigation discussed in the Commission of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a result of the activism of the judiciary. If the judgment was to be made, why was this commission needed? You know, things like that... He's not the kind of person who would take credit for them if he was in his own right, but under such pressure, under such influence, he has to do such false things. The matter we're dealing with is a provision to relieve prosecutors of such pressures, influence. Condemning them for a legal sentence, as collateral, to get the opinion of the attorney general of the Republic...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0301par0334	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0300par0335	We all know that in the future, these Kabul practices will happen to all Republican prosecutors. So this proposal is an important opportunity for us to give up the wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0301par0337	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 24th amendment of the current law proposal, 655 rows, be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0302par0345	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0301par0346	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0303par0347	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0301par0348	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0304par0350	Yes, dear friends, something interesting happened today, so I zapped the TV, and suddenly the President's on the air, but the first thing I hear is screaming, I was looking for justice in the Palace of the Traders and Artists, and he cried out for justice. I'm surprised. Then he said, "Is there no crime of treason?" I'm surprised. What's he saying to who? Then, he came to the Galataport tender, and said, "Is there no one to punish the judges?" As a lawyer, I was surprised to hear it, let alone politics. If there's a crime, there's a punishment, my friends, no one's immune to it. Of course, people are looking for justice. I mean, I understand... Of course, we all know that the 34 weeping mothers in Roboski are looking for justice and that she should come to the Assembly. The crime there is treason, the crime of bombing his own citizen with his own planes. Why, then, are the ones who shot Korkmaz, and Sarısuluk, and their cases in captivity at the time of the traveling? Why do those judges send their cases to Kayseri, here and there, in Eskişehir, where, because there is no security in the Republic of Turkey? So, what are they doing there? Someone's looking for justice -- mothers, brothers, and people with a conscience -- but someone's trying to shut it down. And are there any guarantees that one day those closing judges will not be charged with treason? You've turned it into hallow cotton. You did a referendum, you said a revolution, you didn't make a choice, you didn't make a judicial reform. Every day there's a redesign in each package; in one case, we'll reduce the workload. One of them is the Supreme Court, and one of them is the litigation courts. And now that we've removed the Supreme Court, it's down 70 percent. You're throwing out a ton of Supreme Court members, building a circle in the Court. So I'm sorry, did someone who seeks justice forget that he was Prime Minister in this country for 12 years? Is it me or are we the ones who've eliminated your right to defend? Are we the ones who bring reasonable doubt? Weren't we the ones who were attacked by 100 people when you brought in the special authorities? You didn't attack us with 100 people when you filed a motion for special jurisdictional courts? Well, aren't you the one who handed out those competent courts later because it was parallel, December 17th? If he's parallel, you've changed the position of thousands of police officers in the police force, what about their justice? So, with a law in national education, you've relieved all national education directors here, what about their justice? The staff of all health directors has changed, but what about their justice? But where will justice be for the children who lost their lives with gas flares, TOMA, and over a thousand women who were killed by violence, and the citizens who were subjected to disproportionate violence on the streets every day? Honey, if you're in power, you're 12 years in this country, and you're looking for justice, you're gonna have to bring in the fan of Diojen, and show you the way to justice, and there's no other way, folks. From here, we remind you that the President, the Prime Minister, the minister, the politicians, those in power have been in power for 12 years, let them stop complaining like an opposition MP, if you have an objection, do so, but we say that the objections you make will come to you. That's what I wanted to express from here.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0305par0354	İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0306par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our fellow citizens who are watching us on television, I salute you with respect and respect. This is a judgment package we're talking about. What's in this package of judgments, what's not, at least it's good for the public to know about it. The 17th, 25th December operation -- the 4th Minister who was involved in corruption -- was given strong evidence to open an investigation during the time of the 4th Minister -- but after the verdict on the investigations had been issued, the strong suspicion was turned into suspicion. Of course, there are ratings on suspicion in criminal law. In modern criminal law systems, which are supposed to be here, the evidence goes to a suspect, but the arrangement is now being brought from suspect to suspect. So first, the suspect will be taken into custody, then the evidence will be taken, which is against the principles of modern criminal law. I mean, if there was a trial on December 17th, December 25th, those laws wouldn't have changed. So the result is that there are legal regulations that are unique to the needs of power. Cases and confidentiality are being brought in, so all of our citizens should know that. For example, if he's tired coming out of a closed space, if he's sweaty on the way up the stairs, if there's a meeting and a demonstration march there, he'll be quite comfortable in the sense of reasonable doubt that he'll be taken into custody for 24 hours. What does that mean? It means that basic rights and freedoms are getting narrower and narrower. Yeah, what do you mean by that? The country is not well managed in this regard. In an environment without freedom, industry doesn't develop, trade doesn't develop, democracy doesn't. Our goal here is... there's no political stability where there's no justice. In order for political stability to happen, justice has to be first. So if we're just looking for stability, there has to be absolute justice. Well, while this arrangement was being made, Turkey was not discussed with the Bar Association, it was not discussed with universities. Especially if the laws imposed on our European Union due to the integration process are in accordance with European law or not, should be consulted by the European Union Commission, which should be sent to him. Whether it violates human rights or not, it should be sent to the Human Rights Commission. This proposal was not sent to the European Union Commission, nor was it sent to the Human Rights Commission. There are major flaws in that regard. Of course, it's an illegitimate decision to ban the court the day before the testimony of four ministers regarding December 17th-25th was taken. Why am I saying it's an illegitimate decision? If a decision is against international agreements, if it is against the Constitution, it may be a court decision, it may not be legal. In order for it to be legal, it has to be strictly by universal law. What do we say about this decision? All provisions for the parliamentary investigation are carried out in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. If there are no provisions in Turkey's Parliamentary Court of Justice, the provisions of the Penal Code will be carried out. Well, the republic's attorney general's office on this case has decided not to follow up, has withdrawn from the case, the case is public, everyone has it. The main reason why a public case is a confidentiality decision, a decision not to be reported, is because it is said in our laws that the evidence should not be blacked out. Two, no kidnappings. The evidence is gathered here, there's nothing to miss, and this decision from this point of view is political, illegitimate. Here is a decision aimed at destroying the content of basic rights and freedoms of knowledge. In this respect, I really expect the Justice Department to object to this case, at least if they're looking for justice and freedom, just as the Minister of Justice has objected to the calls in Turkey in the past. Because this is a turnusol paper, and these regulations are contrary to the Constitution, international contracts. We're not looking for a judge of political power or a judge of organizations. We're looking for an independent, neutral, law-enforcement judge. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0307par0365	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 25: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 25th Amendment of the current Law Proposal, 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause "17" be changed to "seven" because it is unconstitutional. Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Now, the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 25 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Ertugrul Kürkçı Hasip Kaplan The signatures of the other motion are: Ali ihsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Jesus Gök Ömer Suha Aldan Gürkut Acar Does the Commission participate in the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0308par0390	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0307par0391	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0309par0392	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0307par0393	Mr. Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion, Şırnak MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0310par0395	Mr. President, our motion is based on the grounds of violation of the Constitution. .
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0307par0396	But the text of the motion that you gave me, the word "ten seven" has been changed.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0310par0397	This is a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0307par0398	We've discussed that the charter is not part of Article 84, which is part of the Law. We came to the conclusion that there was no unconstitutional motion. So...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0310par0399	They can't appreciate it, sir, we do.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0307par0400	But we have the same authority, Faruk Bey.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0311par0401	Mr. President, it's okay.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0307par0402	Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP, please.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0311par0403	Well, friends, I'd like to remind you that the solution process, the peace process, only peace happens in a place where there is justice. So if there's no justice, you can make as much peace as you want, that peace won't last. I mean, in a legal state, that's got to be guaranteed. Do you realize what Congress is doing today, yesterday, the day before, and the days before? Look at the issues we are engaged in: bringing reasonable doubt in the judiciary, interrupting the counsel in the judiciary, bringing in the laws of oppression in the judiciary, and taking the stand in the judiciary. I mean, it's really amazing. I mean, there's already a staffing. There's a security package right behind him. In this security package, a policeman -- no longer needs a judge, a prosecutor, a court -- will call you, will search you, will search your car, will search your house. One night, zero, I don't know, he'll come and go at any time, he'll do what he wants. Then you'll have a process where you won't need a court order, a judge, a law. Now, you cannot uphold justice with these laws of oppression. It won't solve anything, it won't cure you. Look, why can't we talk about Turkey's real agenda today? There are 158,000 prisoners in prisons, 22,000 of which are only prisoners. The rest of the prisoners have a lot of requests for execution law, human conditions, the situation they're living in, and some of them, for the execution, for the time being, for their illness. Has a study of this ever come to the House? No. Look, we're going to an election soon. Every time those who spoke of the will of the nation came to this stand, we came out of the chest. Of course, you came out of the chest, brother, you came out of the barn of the dingo. We didn't say anything to anyone or anything else. But let's talk about how to get out of the trunk. Still, removing it from the chest by means of the Kenan Universe's election system with the 10 per cent threshold does not mean that the national will has been achieved, it does not mean fair judgment, it does not mean fair representation. Fair representation doesn't work that way with a 10% threshold. Seven percent election, with a treasure dam... Look, you're going to split $534 million between yourselves in this election. These are unjust things, they have to change. If you really want to return to democratic politics in the process of resolving, if you want weapons to be abandoned, clear the way for politics. Come on, let's get this election dam down. Let's bring down the election dam so people can come in, do politics, become congressmen, look for political solutions here. Why are you resisting at 10 percent? What is the point of resisting the laws of Canaan and hanging? Look, we're gonna do this all the time. This solution is the only way to open the door to the discussion of ideas. All political parties are responsible for this. The main opposition has a law proposal, we have a law proposal. We're enough; the AK PARTY, the main opposition, the HDP and the bride -- the constitutional amendment -- is a temporary clause, so let's lift it up, lower the electoral dam to a reasonable level, and open the way for the people's will in the elections. Let the people do what they want, make their choice, come into the chest, let their will be free, let the people's will be brought to this stand. This is where the leader ceases to be a sultan, and he runs an internal law. Let's talk about Turkey's real agenda. Friends, by making us all reasonable suspects, there is no peace, democracy, peace in Turkey; believe me, there is no peace. For thirty-four years, there has been no meaning, no moral dimension, to take refuge in the elections, the coup law. Come, let's change this. This is the people's demand, the people's demand. That's what we expect from all of you, so let's get back to the agenda.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0312par0413	They don't listen, they don't listen.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0313par0414	The other speaker on the proposals is Refik Eryılmaz, Hatay MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0314par0417	Mr. President, valued MPs, every week we face the AKP's new judicial package, the law proposals. From these proposals of the law, it is clear that their purpose is not independence of the judiciary, justice, freedom. Can it be expected that a mindset, which says "Democracy is not a goal but a tool," will bring independent judgment to this country and bring democracy and freedom? Would this parliament be offered law in order to cover up a particular kind of corruption, to remove corruption from the judiciary? Yes, I'm afraid that's what the AKP is doing. In a country without independence of judgment, there is no talking about justice, equality, freedoms, rights and freedoms. Today we are experiencing a process in which the judiciary is tried to be under siege, rather than the independence of the judiciary, where the judiciary is tried to be controlled by political power. I clearly understand from the government's practices so far, from the laws he has brought to this House, from the pressures and criticism of the judiciary, that we don't need judicial independence, we want a judgment that pledges to us and serves us. They set out and are trying to carry it out. Think of a country today in response to a decision made by the Constitutional Court as Prime Minister. I don't respect the Constitutional Court, he says. Now, can you expect independent judgment to be brought into this country? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to explain to you another matter while the Minister of Justice is here. We have a Hatayli citizen who's going to work in Saudi Arabia. He left when he was 25, went to earn his living. Without all social security, without health insurance, he went to work in Saudi Arabia with his own means, and for a crime he committed, our friend entered prison in 2006. He was also sentenced to death in 2008. His parents tried to reach out to the President, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, all the authorities you could think of, to keep this child from being executed, but unfortunately the government was so reckless that it couldn't stop our young man from getting his head cut off. Last week, this 30-year-old worker brother was beheaded and sentenced to death. Now I ask you: couldn't you stop this Saudi Arabia administration, the one we called the bro, the Muslim brother, and the one we're going to take democracy with us in Syria, the one we call the dude, the one we call the dude, and the one we call the Muslim brother, the one we're going to take with us in Syria, the one we're going to cut off our brother's head? Turkey has destroyed its reputation. Look, a passing British citizen has committed a crime, he will be sentenced to death, and they have returned him to England. Well, we're not saying he shouldn't pay for it, but what is the point of having his head cut off in the 21st century? And now the downside is, the family's miserable, they call us every day, they can't bring the funeral. I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State: why don't you help bring in this young man's head... you can't take care of your own citizen? Why don't you give Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia, the proper note? Would Saudi Arabia have executed this sentence if this citizen was an American citizen, Israel, England, a German citizen? Look into it, there's no way he could have done something like this. But because 13 representatives of the Muslim Brotherhood were granted citizenship... bridges were thrown with Saudi Arabia. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're in a relationship right now, and I'm afraid this young man is a victim of that. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0315par0429	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Now I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 25th Amendment of the current Law Proposal, 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause "17" be changed to "seven" because it is unconstitutional. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0316par0436	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0315par0437	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0317par0438	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0315par0439	Mr. Alim Ik will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0318par0442	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 25 of Law Proposal 655. I salute you all again. So it's possible to watch from these faces how hard it is to accept a truth, dear friends. The same amendment was rejected because it came under the motion of the Nationalist Movement Party in Article 8; the ruling party itself changed the ten to seven, but now, only because it came from the opposition party. Dear MPs, I'm asking you: does the first ten people of the 17 people of Turkey have eaten Turkey? He'll come. Does 17 mean 10 7 is equal to 70? He'll come. Seventeen joints are written. Respect Turkish and the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. See, on many pages of this Constitution -- let me open it up -- for example, the 19th article on freedom and safety of individuals has a matter of decision-making within 48 hours at the latest, and it does not say eight hundred and eight. I mean, how hard is it to accept that? In what other country can such a fanatic, such a closed understanding be seen only because it comes from the opposition party? That's wrong, you'll get nowhere with that understanding, come on, fix it. We're trying to get the decision to get out of here by mistake, even though the law is underfoot, even though the trial is under siege. For God's sake, I'm asking those of you who speak Turkish, who speak Turkish, who think in Turkish: Is it ever offered separately written? That's what this motion is about. Why don't we take it? Because we connected it to automatics: Opposition always speaks incorrectly, it knows the truth only in Turkey, and only the government knows the government's two bureaucrats, but it puts the two bureaucrats in front of it, and it allows you to admit that wrong, dear friends. Don't do this. I mean, you can't help it. This work, it seems, has been instructed by someone, that this place will pass, so you will not have it pierced. It is imposed upon you according to his instruction. We will fight our battles, and we will tell you in this world and in the next, whoever definitely does wrong, and we will make it easier for you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to talk a little bit about these 17 obsessions. This 17 has really, really affected you. For example, in a process that began from December 17th to December 25th, you raised the State Department to 17, which is very good. You're now changing 17 to 17 years, which is 17 months ago, which is 17 months before that date, now you're changing the Article 29 of the Law on the Supreme Court on June 27, 2013, in which you issued the new arrangement. Article 29 of the Supreme Court shall determine the qualifications and selection of the Supreme Court members. You say here earlier, 17 months ago, in order to be elected a member of the Court, you must have worked for twenty years as a judge and prosecutor. Now, you're bringing it down to 17 years. Bring it down to fifteen and you'll be more comfortable. Why 17? This obsession has made you seriously uncomfortable, so please don't hit the 17th of December Sheb-i Arus. Oh, my God, don't change that place. This December 17th didn't work for you, and there's no way it's going to work for you anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share one more matter with you. The end of this month is limited to the date when our citizens will apply to the tax offices due to the configuration. Today, citizens are complaining that the expirations have not been lifted in their tax offices. Come, deal with the real problems of this country, the effort to save people won't do you any good, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0319par0450	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Well, then, Master, why did you criticize here? You don't agree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0320par0453	I criticized the government, not my friends. I said, "Don't be a driver." I am thanking you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0319par0454	You've put us on the wrong condition.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0320par0455	No, no, I criticized the state of the government and the Commission.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0319par0456	In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in the 26th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 26th Law Proposal in the current 655th row. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "By receiving the opinion of the First Council of Judges" to follow the word "between" in Article 36 of Act 2797. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 26 of the current law proposal, which is 655 rows, be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan SebahatTuncel Ertugrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Leader Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0321par0479	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0319par0480	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0322par0481	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0319par0482	I'm having him read his motive: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. This provision must be removed from the draft text in order to prevent irreparable damage to the facility of justice, with such changes to the position. It is clear that the HSYK's entry into government control and the request for staffing and purpose for the electing of study judges by the HSYK have been based on its purpose. There's no way to make up for the damage done to the law with the changes of the law based on tenure.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0323par0485	Good morning Gökhan...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0319par0486	Mr. Gökhan Morning will speak on the motion, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0324par0488	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise to make an assessment on the 26th article of Proposition 655 rows under discussion. The article in question changes the 36th article of Law 2797. What is this change? One hundred and forty-six years of Supreme Courts, which we described as a supreme court, would have been the first president's board of examiners who would work for him. Now, the government says that I'm taking the authority from the Supreme Court of Appeals to choose its own student judge, and from now on the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors will use it. Now, my dear friends, we shouldn't think of this as a simple transfer of authority, a transfer of authority, because the pressure and interference of HSYK on the Supreme Court is actually an intervention in the independence, the neutrality of the judiciary, and the separation of powers. What am I trying to say? The Supreme Court's Chairman says that the Supreme Court has not been asked about the institutional opinion for the current arrangement, nor have the views we have previously expressed on this matter been taken into consideration. This arrangement does not comply with our institutional requirements. It goes on to say, Mr. Supreme Court Chairman, that this unregistered arrangement is contrary to judicial culture, judicial independence, and the scope of appeals. Look, Minister of Justice, do you know how the Minister of Justice, sitting at this time, responds to these views of the Supreme Court? In fact, he says, "Do your job." The Minister of Justice says to the Supreme Court, "Do your job." How can he say that? The authority to make a law is in the special area of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I make the law, you understand it and you follow it. You can't express political opinion, you can't seek intent from me. [[The AK PARTY says it's true.]] He's right, of course. A European Union doesn't know, you all know; we don't know, and neither does the European Union. The European Union's progress report says that continuing changes in the justice system without consulting the shareholders weakens the Turkish legal system. I'm asking you now, do you or do you not accept the Supreme Court as a partner in the amendment to the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0325par0496	We do.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0324par0497	If the Supreme Court were a partner, not a partner, what would you say about it?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0325par0498	We asked. Who says we didn't ask?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0324par0499	You don't ask, you don't ask about his corporate opinion, you don't ask about his previous views...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0325par0500	We asked, we asked.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0324par0501	Sir, you'll understand if you read it. You're not taking any of his earlier views into consideration. Besides, my dear friends, look, in the presidency, the prosecutor and the judge can be appointed, appointed as prime minister, appointed by the Public Control Agency, assigned to the Human Rights Institution of Turkey, even appointed by the Ministry of Justice. I ask: Are these institutions seeking the approval of the HSYK to appoint judges or prosecutors? Can HSYK use a warrant to replace them? He can't use it. The P.A. can choose him as a judge and a prosecutor. You say to the judge: "No, brother, you can't choose. This is your understanding of judgment. This is your sense of judgment. This is an upside that doesn't even require consultation. Gene goes on and on, the Minister of Justice says, "Why can't HSYK pick a student judge, but why can't HSYK choose a student judge?" So in law, that means that the few who do most of them do come on. There's such a general rule. And the HSYK you refer to is an independent, neutral organization? Didn't you choose 2 of the four chosen by the President, 1 of the president's attorney's brother? Didn't you choose the other, the president of the Women's Arms of the AKP, the councilman? Now, do you expect us to think that for this HSYK, an unbiased organization will disqualify the Supreme Court? This is obviously an intervention in the judiciary, and it is unacceptable, and it is a distorted arrangement that clearly reflects the AKP mentality.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0326par0509	I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 26th Law Proposal in the current 655th row. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "By receiving the opinion of the First Council of Judges" to follow the word "between" in Article 36 of Act 2797. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0327par0515	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0326par0516	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0328par0517	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0326par0518	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0329par0520	Mr. President, if you want to know about this, this is exactly what this is about. Hitler's regime, Stalin's regime, Mussolini's regime, Franco's regime all came with a majority understanding. When he came by election, he established despots and dictators to stay in power. These governments have led the entire world to great disaster and condemned it to World War II. There's been a development in the world since then. Instead of the majority, the pluralistic system and the plural forces also formed the balance and control tools that they call "check" and "balance." That's what keeps the world in a democratic system, and that's what Turkey feels the need for such democratic balance and control mechanisms. Now, each organ has its own balance and control, as well as the mechanisms of balance and control between legislation, executive and judicial bodies. And one of them is about this bill that we're talking about in court. The court's examiners, prosecutors at the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office, are appointed to the opinion of the people they served with. This would be a balance of outside political interference, and outside political interference could be audited against it. Now, my dear friends, I'm a man from the inside of a trial, a man who knows how to get a student judge. Therefore, the Supreme Court is very successful at reviewing the files that come to the Supreme Court offices, and the head of that agency will note the people who can be used in the Supreme Court if needed, and will submit its request to the First Presidential Council to make an assessment between them if necessary. The First Presidential Council also assesses this and assigns as objectively as possible to the examiners. Now, you're going to turn around here, let's connect this to HSYK. There's a truth to this: you're going to get the opinion of the First Presidential Board when you're appointing a judge. Well, why don't you get the First Presidential Board's opinion here? Let the opinion of the First Presidential Council be taken, so that this balance and control tool within the judiciary may act, be kept alive, not cast a political shadow on the Supreme Court, which has decided on behalf of the Turkish nation for life and safety of all of us against outside political interference. That's what we want to express, that's what's right. I'm convinced this will be rejected, but I'd like to talk to you about the consequences of the rejection. My dear friends, one day everyone needs judgment. When the day comes, everyone will be judged safely, and I will prove to the court that the slander against me is not true. He must be trusted, or if he is wronged, I will take away his right from the court. He must have the thought. You, on the other hand, put the AKP hat on the head of the judiciary, which will decide for the nation, which will decide for the Turkish nation, and you're trying to create a judgment for the AKP. This will lead the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation, where all our efforts, all our efforts, are right to this goal, to very serious gains, which we hope will live forever in the future, to very serious problems. You will remain under it, and you will remain in it, and you will remain in the Hereafter.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit03spe0330par0527	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in section one have been completed. Now we'll begin the second chapter interviews. The second chapter covers Articles 27 to 52. But I'm gonna take a 30-minute break before we start talking.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0330par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 20th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal No. 655. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers Articles 27 to 52. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the second chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0331par0010	There's no one here.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0330par0011	We'll listen to you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0331par0012	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the second part of the Law Proposal on the amendment of Judgement and Prosecutors Act 655, and on the second part of the Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. In the second part of the proposal of the law, the penal code is transformed into a form of reasonable doubt by changing the strong doubt based on concrete evidence. Thus, after the December 17th corruption investigation, the change is restored to its pre-existing state. It is also the legal basis for the government's ability to make easy search decisions by the newly formed HSYK, which is further guaranteed. The AK PARTI government also wants to open its way to the constitutional order of Article 128, which regulates Article 128 (the Article 128) which regulates the Article of Rights and Law on Criminal Accounts, and to the subcontract number 17 of Articles on Criminal Orders Against the Operation of this Order, and to open the way for the implementation of this order to be held in accordance with Article 309 to 316 of the Constitutional Order of TCK. Precious lawmakers are also charged with crimes against the constitutional order and the functioning of this order -- such as TCK 309 and Article 316 -- by adding an additional subcommittee to state security by altering the 14th subcommittee (8) of CMC's article (8) in the auditing of this law proposal. Similarly, the implementation of the surveillance measure with technical tools includes the same crimes, and the same idea appears to be intended. Thus, any crime against state order and reflex opens the way for these protection measures to be implemented. Given that law has recently been carried out in parsitic and fundamental human rights, it is clear that the government would like to carry out practices that could have devastating economic consequences for the opposition in the investigations, which have not been drawn in the text of the law and are open to arbitrary interpretations, such as crimes against the government. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers will be applied to almost anyone who has expressed dissatisfaction with the current administration in accordance with a vague statement such as the confiscation of the state and the dissolution of the integrity of the state, and therefore the demands of fundamental rights and freedoms will be impossible. The arbitrary implementation of this arrangement in order to victimize some people would mean violating property rights in any case. In this case, the arrangement is open to pleasure, its borders are not fully drawn, it is not possible to explain the public benefit. Dear lawmakers, with Article 45 of the law proposal, access to the case is restricted again in the process of investigating. In accordance with the standards of the European Court of Human Rights, we have lifted all restrictions on the equivalence of weapons, in accordance with the principle of the European Court of Human Rights, as a justification for the removal of the restrictions imposed on the CMK following the 17th and 25 December corruption operations of Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ. On December 17, 25th, the substance removed to obtain documents on investigations after corruption and bribery operations is returned to a constraint clause that prohibits access to investigative files after the violation of conjunctive laws, the appointment of appropriate judges and the structure of government-willed HSYK. Basically, this change is the public abuse of the authority of the law. This initiative is incompatible with the technique of making law in a democratic legal state. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, according to the European Court of Human Rights, one of the most important requirements of the principle of equality of weapons is the right to access the investigation file. Despite the prosecution's ability to provide opinions and assessments based on the evidence elements in the case, the defence must also have access to the contents of the file to effectively refute these views and evaluations. We also feel that whether the defendant's examination of the contents of the case can be restricted by a judge's decision, the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights will violate the European Court of Human Rights rights' right to a fair trial, which is guaranteed by its courts. Dear lawmakers, in all civilized countries, the political will can't play this arbitrary and vulgarly over judgment. There can be no judicial reform that would soon break the previous law with another law. Such changes cannot be called reform. Even if it were, it would be called a scandal in the name of the law. If political power can play with such judgment in a country, then no one in that country has legal security. With this proposal of law, the government's greatest goal is to ensure that judicial decisions are given in accordance with the political majority's expectations by putting the judiciary in the direction of executive. Dear lawmakers, we also need to address a clause that has been revoked by the proposal of the law. It is not acceptable to remove the item that regulates the judicial year's celebration on May 10, 2014, as an excuse for the debates at the State Council. The lack of legal basis for a judicial year's opening ceremony is a intimidating attempt on the legal community. A change in the law as a result of some of the events or personal frictions in the practice is nothing more than a joy. Thus, the High Assembly is simplified and discredited by the reflection of such personal disputes on the amendments of the law. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are returning to the change in the last February, when they change the strong doubt condition based on concrete evidence under Penal Code No. 5271. This naturally creates the sense that the decision to make the search decision difficult after the 17th and 25 December corruption and bribery investigation is over. Thus, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been made a tool for the so-called laundering of marginal interest groups, people involved in dirty jobs such as corruption and bribery. Dear lawmakers, when the ruling party proposed to Parliament in February 2014 and is considered under the law proposal we are now discussing, it is politically un principled that the government is in a position to defend two clearly conflicting regulations. On the other hand, we did wrong. The type of approach is a sign of insensitivity. Unfortunately, the ruling wing has repeatedly made it a procedure to disrupt the balance between freedoms and the provision of public safety for marginal interest groups. Independent judiciary is the essential condition, indicator and assurance of being an independent state and of the legal state. In short, independent judiciary is the heart of the state of law. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, all international documents, comparative law enforcement, examples of the civilized and improved world, the acquistive of the European Union, the European Council and the relevant boards working on this, the recommendations of our people's expectations and needs from the judiciary, the government can close its eyes, block its ears, and sacrifice the country's legal system to the interests of a group. The executive body, the government, has already fallen into decay, aims to end the separation principle. However, it is not acceptable for a political understanding to mediate a common public law and judicial system in order to overcome its own crisis. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0332par0029	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Zonguldak MP Ali İhsan İkturk will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0333par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of Justice and Prosecutors Act 655, and on behalf of the Proposal of the Law on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws. First of all, I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, including new members of our Supreme Courts, such as the Supreme Court, have changed the structure of the Supreme Courts and its current boards significantly, changing the regulations that directly concern our basic rights and freedoms, such as search, seizure, detection of communications, monitoring through technical tools; reducing the right to access to the content of the defence's rights, even cutting off its right to the file content of its rights; meeting a traditionally identified ceremony with the dignity of the judiciary, as the opening of the judicial year, in a ceremony that took place on May 10th, on the basis of a ceremony of hatred and humanity; even cutting off its proposal from the Grand Assembly of Turkey on a day. Unfortunately, we are deeply sorry to see that both the allegations and the goals of this judicial reform package offer, as has been made by the Justice and Development Party in talks in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and in the Justice Commission since two days, are indeed far away, with other reasons and reasons. Unfortunately, it does not include the purpose of the Justice and Development Party's law proposal to achieve the general goals, which, unfortunately, contain special arrangements for the individual, which are conjunctural, monthly, or even weekly, or even daily changes. When we look at the content of the bill, we see daily, monthly, weekly, annual tides, puzzles, as many of our lawmakers say. We bear very clear testimony that some of the regulations in the judicial reform packages brought to this General Assembly agenda by the case of democratisation have been returned today for other reasons and reasons. Now, if we may briefly refresh our memory on these issues, we have friends from the 23rd term here, Mr. Secretary, here are some of the members of the Justice and Development Party, which was part of the Commission at the time. We all remember very well that in 2008, when the 23rd term of this Parliament actually increased the workload of the Supreme Court, most of the Supreme Court's case files were falling from their timeline, while Supreme Court Chief Hasan Akariker put on the Justice Commission's agenda a proposal to reduce the number of members and apartments of the Supreme Court by drafting a bill of Justice and Development Party and Justice. With this proposal, the number of legal agencies of the Supreme Court, 21, was expected to be reduced from 11 to 7, and the number of members of the Supreme Court was limited to 150. Today, I remember a very strong debate during the talks of the Justice and Development Party, which limited the number of members of the Supreme Court to 150, reduced the number of apartments to 20, reduced the number of apartments from 32 to 20. I think our friends do, too. Despite our fierce opposition that day, the Justice Minister and Justice Commission members of the Justice and Development Party strongly argued that this was a reform package, although it was made very clear from opposition parties that this was not true, and they ignored what was said that day. Mr. Secretary, was the workload of that day much less work at the Supreme Court in 2008 than it is today? On that day, the files in the Supreme Court were falling from their timeline, and the workload had become too much to handle with the current members. Not only that, but you prevented members of the Supreme Court from attending HSYK meetings at the time to complete the number of members reduced by ejaculations, reduced by ejaculations. At the time, the chairman of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors filed a criminal complaint on behalf of representatives of the Justice and Development Party, especially his undersecretary. So not only did you reduce the number of prisons and legal agencies at the time, but you gave the motion to reduce the number of members, but you went into an effort to block the Supreme Court's membership elections, due to current legislation and ejaculations. Mr. Secretary, what happened after that? After that, we went through a referendum process with the argument of democratization and the fact that it didn't work out, but yes, we did. After the referendum on September 12, 2010, you actually broke the country's high judgment and not just the judicial body. Not only have you broken the back of the judicial bodies of this country, but, yes, we are becoming democratic between the screams. You have not only opened the way for this country's -- the HSYK, this country's State Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court -- but in fact, you have opened the way for the destruction of the entire body of this state. And who did you do that with? In fact, with that structure that you have declared the greatest enemy today, you have unfortunately spent this process together with the Constitutional Process, and you have taken 160 members from the new HSYK to the Supreme Court after which you have established 160 members in the Supreme Court and in the sense and comfort of taking power in the HSYK, you have made 160 new members to the Supreme Court. In this process, you have closed your eyes to all the irregularities that have occurred in the Supreme Courts, in the Special Courts. At that time, you carried a parallel structure that you saw as the enemy today, hand in hand, arm in arm, knee in knee, holy alliance with the patriots of this country, the intellectuals of this country, the respected scientists of this country, university teachers, students, rotting in Silivri dungeons, rotting in the military prisons of Mamak. During that time, all the fundamental principles of the law, its coefficients, the purity of innocence, the interpretation of the principle in favor of the defendant was reversed; major violations of the law have occurred in public in matters such as search, seizure, communication detection, and listening. But you didn't speak up at the time; on the contrary, we are the prosecutors of the Ergenekon case, the Oda TV case of the Ergenekon trial, the Oda TV case, which is the President of that period, in order to silence all the opposition forces against you, and you did so using the judiciary as a sword to silence all the opposition forces against the AKP. So, what happened to this holy alliance? You put the soldiers of this country in prisons, you put the scientists in prison who would play a very important role in the future of this country, and we want free college, free education. You put the college students in prison, and you built them in arm and arm with that structure that you're complaining about today. You broke Turkey's back in great understanding, great tolerance, great solidarity. You broke the back of institutions in Turkey. So, what happened? Well, after that... that's when we got here. Until this honeymoon period, this holy alliance, lasted until December 17th. On December 17th, when the money boxes, the dollars and euros in the shoeboxes were poured out in the eyes of our people, and in that sacred alliance, when that parallel structure came to your door, you started shouting, "The judge is surrounded, the government is struck, we are struck." Good morning, Mr. Secretary, good morning!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0334par0041	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. Mr Faruk Bal will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0335par0045	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, in fact, need to be properly addressed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to say the seats of the lawmakers are empty, for the ruling party, of course. Dear friends, Turkey has very serious problems. These serious problems can be classified financially, politically and socially. I'd like to touch a few of them. While the rich are getting richer in Turkey, the poor are getting poorer, the efficiency and technological breakthroughs in the economy are as low as possible; production is increasing, not at the expected level, but, naturally, social problems. Sadly, we face such problems because they are not affordable, even though there are unregistered teachers, agricultural engineers, water products engineers, food engineers, veterinary physicians, trade groups that can stimulate the economy. The rich are getting rich, and they're taking Turkey's credit. In 2002 the number of dollar billionaires in Turkey rose to 4 in Turkey, while in 2014 the number of dollar billionaires rose to 34. There's not a lot of talk, not a lot of talk, not a lot of goods. There's a point where the bride gets to the bride in the looting order, where we get to 17th, 25th December. After the December 17, 25th corruption operations began, the AKP (AKP)'s shape changed schematics, naturally, since there was a majority of them here, Turkey's Grand National Assembly changed its agenda. After 17 December 25 December corruption operations, two basic problems were discussed in front of Turkey. One of them is fighting the parallel, and the other is the solution process. The fight against the parallel, of course, in previous talks, but I did express that they had walked together, wet together in the pouring rain, on one hand in 2010, this election was worth ten elections. The political authority, which said, "It's worth 10 elections." On the other hand, he said, "It's an important choice, even the dead must get up from the grave and vote." He said, "But when it came to pass, the evidence of it came to pass, that it was unlawful, and that it was unlawful, and that it was an orphan's right, and that it was fed at the table of the unlawful." The evidence came from photographs, images, phone records, that no one could deny, that everyone would rip their hair out when they saw it. I mean, in the crates, in the boxes, in the suitcases, in the numbers that make you flip your lips, millions of dollars, hours, etcetera, etcetera... Now, the AKP knows that the end of this goes to its government, 4 politicians, at least the Minister, but on the basis of the criminal responsibility of their government, and in other areas, especially in the 25 December operation, Mr. Prime Minister, a corruption operation that leads to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of that period. In order to make this corruption operation ineffective from 17 December to 25 December, this Parliament has been busy, all state organs have been busy, all media media organs have been busy; the goal is to get rid of the lunatics. In the early days, the Judiciary Police Act was altered in a way that would make hairs grow, and what evidence is there in those files, which leads to who, who can be suspicious, and these have been learned by the way that this change has been made. After him, files were taken from police officers who were investigating, files were taken from prosecutors; judges, prosecutors and police officers were driven around. It wasn't enough that, in order to prevent this evidence from being evidence, the Penal Code, the Criminal Code, the Internet Law, and the legislation related to its laws were quickly changed, and with these changes, one of them was able to transport the other because of conflict, so that it became an audience who watched the Ping-Pong match as the law passes through the House. Of course, you can appreciate how much the eyes that watch the ping-pong game move around. My dear friends, here is the law that we discussed today -- like that ping-pong ball -- which is in June 2014, about four months before that, again, in February 2014. In these 17 December 25 December investigations, the AKP has made arrangements to extend its right to freedom while changing the Penal Code, the Internet Law and relevant legislation to access the evidence. But he has also made another arrangement that in order to prevent any measures taken in the Law of Punishment to prevent him from being exposed to his followers or to those who have touched the Zulfuya, he has taken some reasonable doubt and turned it into strong doubt based on concrete evidence. This, of course, was partially acceptable because of the wrong sense of reasonable doubt in terms of basic rights. We wished it to be legal, not legal, but to protect ourselves from the evidence of crime, which we now understand today is due to the fact that this law has been brought here. Now, this bill makes it difficult for lawyers to access the evidence because of the confidentiality decision. Why? Because he's already made changes to protect himself in the investigations that the parallel structure has done against him before, and now he wants to narrow down his defence fields while he struggles against the parallel structure, while he struggles against it. So the lawyers of the parallel structure can't get to the evidence, the confidentiality decision... so that decisions like search, detainment, arrest can be made easily, not based on strong suspicion of crime, but based on reasonable doubt. My dear friends, this is how personal the judgment is, how political and how democratic it is. The end of this is a sign that AKP (AKP) who rode the democracy train got off the democracy train today; he landed, and then he took the dictatorship train. The AKP, which politicized HSYK, the Supreme Court, the State, wearing AKP hats on it, is able to produce political decisions from here. So, we wish that he would use his skill to come up with proper solutions to Turkey's real problems. And one thing I want to express in this context is that the AKP is fighting for independence in this process against the parallel. Yes, there is a parallel here in Turkey. Turkey's ruling rights, the terrorist organization collects taxes, recruits troops, opens schools, opens martyrdom, conducts security checks and implements all of the main elements of state power in some provinces and districts of Southeast Anatolia, declaring autonomy in five places. That's the parallel state. He's sitting with this when he should be fighting this state, he's negotiating with the terrorist organization, and then he's yelling after him, and Western countries want to legitimize the PKK terror organization. Isn't it the AKP that's legitimizing it? Isn't it the AKP who negotiated with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) by sitting at the table? What's he negotiating? The bargain is clear, obvious, obvious, and that's the negotiation of national domination. That national domination is the value of a nation with the War of Salvation. This nation's value is to negotiate with a terrorist organization under gun threat... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is a violation of the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey's state and all its improved values.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0336par0057	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of him, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündün will speak on behalf of him. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0337par0061	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you all. Dear friends, in fact, with this offer, the ruling party is trying to make an appropriate judgment, a structure. Before power became power, I would fight against prohibitions, poverty, corruption. Unfortunately, at the point we're coming, he's up to his neck in corruption, and he's become an illegal government. The last thing you know, the chairman of the Parliamentary Commission for Parliamentary Investigations on suspicious ministers, someone from the ruling party, asked for a restraining order, and the court of justice also issued it. When we looked at the government's banned report card, it brought a ban on fraud in 2011. Also in 2008, 17 soldiers were banned from the investigation into the attack on Actütun. Again, a ban was imposed on ISIS to capture 49 of our citizens, the consulate officer, on June 16th. There's been a ban on the bug case in the prime minister's office. The Foreign Ministry has been banned from the country's Foreign Minister and other officials in connection with the plot to attack our own land, Solomon Shah Temple. Sir, there has been a ban on trucks carrying weapons from Adana to Hatay to Syria, to the bloody terrorists. In Reyhanlı, the ban was imposed on 52 of our citizens to be slaughtered by ISIS terrorists again. In 2012, an investigation into the plane that crashed in Syria was banned. Sir, there is a ban on 35 of our citizens who were killed by airplanes again in Uludere. The ban on the martyrdom of our soldiers was imposed on him. The ban on the Bingol attack has been imposed and the latest ban on December 17th has been imposed. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of, my friends? What do you forbid? You can't forbid it. We'll explain it from here, we'll explain it from the House, from this stand; let's see, we're breaking your ban. Coroner's office gave me a report, and I have the report here, and I'm explaining. You're not allowed to do that. I'm drilling your right. Sir, what does this forensic report say? Coroner's forensics. And I'm not surprised if there's a law on forensics coming up soon. I'm warning you already. Sir, on December 17th, a report from the Forensic Medical Association on whether the audio recordings of December 25th are compatible with the figures, that there is no error in any way that would disrupt the meaning integrity, that there is no adding or subtraction. I've pierced your right. So what now? Dear friends, you can't do it like this. So if you go with that logic, you're going down. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's the prosecutor's non-obstructive decision to throw away. Look, I'm telling you right now, she's gonna be okay with this tomorrow. What does the prosecutor say? Even in the prosecutor's decision of non-obsession, the prosecutor says, "Sir, in order for a bribery charge to take place, the agreement must be made, provided that benefit is provided before the work is done, or at the latest. What did you do, my brother, for contempt, for abuse of office? It's okay. So in this decision, the prosecutor already says, "Here, sir, I don't accept bribes because there's no particular job in return for these benefits, but it may be a deterrent, it may be an irregular gift given to 3628, but I don't accept it as a bribe." That's why I've decided not to follow you. From the beginning to the end... as of today, I've objected to this land of non-obsession. I don't have time, I'll tell you. That's what I mean. According to the statement of Suleiman Aslan, the money caught in the house of Süleyman Aslan, it is not lost, Prosecutor, but all this. The money in the shoe boxes is fixed, he says. But, sir, what is it? Osmancık is to be held in imam-hatip high school and a university in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One of your MP's lawyers went and said: "These are the funds for the university in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Return it to me. The prosecutor has also decided to return it. I'm saying you know who that congressman is, I don't give his name. So I say we don't recognize your prohibitions, and we'll continue to breach your prohibitions. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0338par0071	Thank you, Mr. Original. On behalf of him, the last speaker, Mr. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0339par0074	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. For about 45 days, this bill has been evaluated, analyzed in the legal community, so to speak, everyone has spilled the stones on its skirt. It's been mentioned here, especially in terms of the special law, that there's a special law, that someone's being protected. I'd like to answer that briefly. Private law for one... as we recall from law school, the law is a general regulatory process, objective, objective, so it covers everyone. Suna Kan, Idil Biret, these are highly gifted children. They're music virtuoso now. In 1948, the name was passed under the law for the transfer of gifted children abroad. Those who want to take care of it, Law No. 5245, 1948. After this law in the Republican People's Party era, perhaps as content, perhaps as a figure, special interpretations of the law are the Suna Kan, passed in our history of law, the Idil Beert Law, the special law.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0340par0078	Mr. Ramadan, it never happened!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0341par0079	This doesn't fit, find something more appropriate.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0342par0080	It's not corruption. You can't compare it to him.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0343par0081	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0342par0082	What does that have to do with December 17,25?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0344par0083	What a metaphor!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0343par0084	Mr. President, the law on reasonable doubt, Law 6526, you know, is a law on Anti-Terror Law. There was a reasonable doubt before that law. However, the requirement for reasonable doubt has been violated, not only by reporting, not based on facts, but by violating the basic rights and freedoms of individuals. As a result, Law 6526 had strong doubts based on concrete evidence. In fact, the lawmaker's blessing here was the concreteness of facts and signs in concrete evidence. But in practice, it became what it needed to prove, and I can give you an example of the same criteria for arrest, by looking for more than a search, arrest, or even conviction, even though the search was the least of the protection measures. Therefore, when such a situation occurred, the search warrants became insurmountable.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0345par0085	Didn't they obey the law?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0343par0086	As a result, Feridun Yenisey, my professor at Istanbul Law School, has an explanation for this law, saying that the amendment with Law No. 6526 will have significant consequences in terms of the intensity of the degree of force of doubt needed to be implemented. Because, since a person's rights are of interest to private life and are not the last resort, the rule has raised the lawmaker's bar, even though reasonable doubt can be made, and has asked that there be almost as strong doubt as needed to be made for an arrest warrant, which is based on concrete evidence.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0346par0087	Who made that offer, Ramadan, who?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0343par0088	Thus, the search decision has been made unresolved. Basically, the point of looking is to get evidence. If there is evidence, the search is unnecessary.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0347par0089	You brought him in, you did. You gave it to me yourself. They put it in your hand, you sign it, you don't know it!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0348par0090	Didn't you give it to him?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0349par0091	You gave it to them so they wouldn't arrest you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0350par0092	Shall we hear it, friends? Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0351par0093	Friends, I considered this with courage in the Commission, and I said that the release of Law 6526 triggered the events of December 17th and 25th, and it's true. [Applause from MHP and CHP rows!]
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0352par0094	That's right... well done!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0353par0095	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0351par0096	The October 6th, 8th, Kobani events also triggered the offer.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0353par0097	Are you confessing or taking it out for Kobani? You're going to release the terrorists?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0351par0098	That's true, but I'd like to say in particular: Omar Suha Aldan and Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk also criticised 6526. We stood for reasonable doubt in the name of the principle, and today, on behalf of the principle, the Republican People's Party, no matter what the other MPs say, we stand for reasonable doubt, and we will not criticize this offer.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0354par0099	We're not criticizing him!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0355par0100	We're criticizing you!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0356par0101	We're presenting your contradiction.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0357par0102	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the practice of reasonable doubt in both the European Court of Human Rights and the law is clear, and the application of the Supreme Court is clear. As a result of the problem caused by the enforcers, if there is a problem, the legislator is obliged to solve it. On the other hand, about the defense's access to the case, as lawyers, we ask the defense to access the case at all times. However, in Article 157, the investigation of punishment is classified, limiting the right to defend itself.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0358par0104	He's coming to his defenses now.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0357par0105	As a result, he's been charged with catalogue crimes...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0359par0106	Yeah, you let him go on December 17th. The ministers' lawyers went and took everything.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0357par0107	I'm saying my Law Proposal number 641 was here, which was a blessing...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0359par0108	You're done, and now...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0360par0109	Is there a lawyer who's been charged with 285?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0357par0110	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0360par0112	Is there a lawyer who's been charged with violating confidentiality?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0361par0113	Thank you, Mr. Can. Now we're going to do the QA. We're 15 minutes out. Let's ask questions for seven and a half minutes, and in the remaining seven and a half minutes, Mr. Secretary will answer questions. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0362par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how many prisons have you done since 2002? What was the bed capacity in prisons when you came to power, and what is it today? How many prisoners and prisoners were there in 2002, and what is that number now? We're world leaders. The economy has flown. We've solved every problem. You're saying, what is the reason for the increase in crime and crime in your time of power? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0363par0123	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0364par0124	No, no, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0363par0125	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0365par0126	No Tanal, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0363par0127	Oh, how did Mr. Tanal not come! Mr. Eryilmaz... he's not here either? Mr. Dibek... Thank you, Mr. Dibek, you're the only one here.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0366par0131	Yes, I'm here, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm here to ask you, my fellow bureaucrats, if I may find them, but perhaps they're ready -- if our friends give you the numbers regarding the German and French Supreme Court and the State Department, you'll present them to us. Yes, I mean, the German Supreme Court and the Court of Justice in Germany, and the Supreme Court and the Court in France -- let's just say -- is there a missing member? Those two countries are close to Turkey as a scale, and those two are enough. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0367par0134	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0368par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, while Prime Minister Etyen Mahçupyan answers the questions of Smurf Payzin, CNN Turk, on November 25, 2014, most of the people believe there is corruption in Turkey, and half of the AKP voter. There's a lot of work to be done. The AKP voter thinks there are people involved in corruption within the party, and he is unhappy with them, and he wants them to be replaced. Instead, the society agreed to carry corruption for a while to avoid the threat of a coup. He made his statement. How do you judge these words with this restraining order issued by the Anti-Corruption Commission? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0369par0139	Thank you. Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, please.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0370par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, even the Prime Minister's Counsellor says this is the corruption of the 17-25 December century, that there is corruption on December 17th-25th, but there is a coup. Corruptions were not taken very seriously because the citizen stood by the Prime Minister against the coup. Now it's clear that there are corruption as well as two times two equals four. But especially after this December 17th-25th, we see that the work is closed with the judges assigned to you by the changes you made in the HSYK. At this point, as Minister of Justice of this country, I'd like to ask you if your conscience is clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0371par0146	Thank you. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0372par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is the TK a parallel state structure? Is it the ACK people who organized the events of October 6th or 7th? Is the release of the ACK people a result of law enforcement, or is the release of the TKL people a law? Did Ocalan, the mass murderer in Imralı, write the KCK's main contract? If Ocalan wrote it, who leaked it out of the Imran? Was an investigation of the ACK people under their contract due to their activities? If the TKD people were tried under the contract written by Ocalan, has there been any investigation into the chief terrorist, Ocalan, who wrote the contract? If not, do you intend to start an investigation into the terrorist leader, Ocalan, who is referring to Turkey's integrity? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0373par0151	You broke last night's record, Hajji. Today, he's asking a new record question. In a minute... well done. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0374par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, after December 17th and 25th, you conducted counter-ops against police officers involved in these operations under the name of the operation of perception. So, what I'm asking is how many police officers have been involved in these arrests since December 17th and 25th? How many of these have been arrested? Do you think the judges who released the police officers referred to the court under the prosecution's arrest warrant are members of the parallel structure? After this law is passed, will you be taking care of these judges? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0375par0156	Dear Light.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0376par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it has been decided that the transcripts of the public record and the transcripts of the talk between the suspects, as previously alleged by the Forensic Medical Association, due to December 17th-25 corruption and bribery operations, were original. After this decision, have any transactions been made by your Ministry regarding prosecutors who decided not to follow up on these files? If it was done, how was it processed? If it wasn't done, are you planning on doing a procedure on it? Question number two: What are the reasons why the criteria for strong doubt based on concrete evidence have been transformed into reasonable doubt so that a search warrant can be made? Why was this change needed? What is your purpose? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0377par0161	Thank you. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0378par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked Mr. Secretary last night, and I didn't get a clear answer. In Turkey, perhaps one of the best things the AKP government has done is to renovate the courthouse buildings, but for some reason in my constituency of the Bolu, any renovations related to this courthouse have not reached a concrete point. I asked him last night, I asked him at the Commission before, Mr. Secretary. Some courthouses in the districts have been shut down, and they've been connected to the headquarters. Indeed, our colleagues, judges, prosecutors, lawyers were unable to do anything because of the physical conditions of the building. When are we going to set up the foundation of the courthouse in Bolu? I want a clear answer to that question.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0377par0165	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0379par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, don't you know that two days ago, at the meeting, HDP Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş, his statements left Abdullah Ocalan in a difficult position, and that we did not meet with the government, which even Ocalan had not requested, although it was known that MİSCE had made such talks, you left Öcalan in trouble? Who do you speak for, and why do you want to discredit Ocalan? He said such things. Now, do you agree with the demeaning of Abdullah Ocalan, who was sentenced to aggravated life as Minister of Justice? You think it's too respectable? What kind of work do you have to get out of a difficult situation? Do you agree with the views of Bulent Arinc?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0377par0168	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0170	Mr. President, Mr. Erdoğan has asked how many prisons have been closed since 2002? Ninety-four prisons have been opened, including 2002, but in the meantime, 247 prisons have been closed, I can tell you that. There are now 156,232 prisoners and prisoners in prison. Of course, there's been an increase in the number of prisoners in prisons. It's obvious, it's obvious. There are different reasons for that, too. Not only has the crime rate increased, but the new Penal Code increased the amount of punishment, one. Second, the execution of sentences was 40 percent, and now two thirds of the sentence is being executed. Of course, execution times have been greatly increased, and people are staying inside longer. That's another factor. Of course, new forms of crime have emerged. Because of these, there's been an increase in convictions. On the other hand, the decision-making of the files is due to the issues that have caused the increase. There are many other reasons for that. And there's also a more active structure in dealing with crime and crime. The increasing possibilities, the technological advances in gathering evidence, are also a factor, but there are many other reasons. I'd like to express that in particular. Right now, our prisons have an over-capacity rate, which we're aware of. And we're still working to get these rates to a better point. It's almost done, there's more, there's more, there's more, there's more in the project phase. We desire that the fullness there be at a reasonable level and that everyone should be punished in a more comfortable environment. For that, we continue to work as the Ministry. That's one. On the other hand, Mr. Dibek asked a question. When I get his answer, I'll share it with you, our friends are following. The question asked by Mr. Acar. Of course, he asked questions about the explanation of a chief of staff, but it's better if you get his answer from there. Because as Minister, I'm not in a position to express, explain, support, or anything like that, but other friends of ours have had similar questions about December 17th, December 25th. Everyone makes a different assessment of what happened on December 17th, December 25th. Some say it's a corruption operation, some say it's a coup attempt, some say it's a planned, organized operation to bring down or discredit the government in some other way.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0381par0174	What does your conscience say, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0175	Everyone's looking at it from a different point of view.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0381par0176	I asked about your conscience.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0177	But when will the truth be revealed at this point? Of course, it will come out after the trial, and the issue of political competition on this issue will be damaged if such matters are done. Look, the headlines are being made. People spend 30 years, 40 years, 50 years, 70 years trying to earn a reputation. As Congressman, as minister, we are all valued as human beings. But one day a newspaper makes a headline, and all the judges of Turkey can't erase the headline if they come together and decide. To that end, people need to protect, protect, protect, protect their reputation, their dignity; this Parliament needs to look out for more.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0382par0179	Everyone has to look out for themselves first, first for himself.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0180	The secrecy of the investigation is crucial. The most important reason is the right to remain unstained. When people are being investigated, if there's a reputation -- maybe there'll be a lack of surveillance, maybe the file won't go forward -- they won't be smeared there, but there's a causality of innocence.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0383par0181	Why didn't you think of that in the sledgehammer case, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0182	Now, look, we're both violating the right to not be tainted, and the purity of innocence is being violated, and we all say: "No one is allowed to be guilty until the sentence is constant." On the other hand, we've judged people, we've identified the claim, we've cut the bill, we've executed the punishment.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0383par0183	How did it happen in the sledgehammer, in Ergenekon?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0384par0184	That's what you're doing.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0185	Behold, I have spoken the like of it in the sledgehammer, and in Ergenekon, and the proceedings are witnesses. Society divided into two, half guilty, half innocent. I'm one of the people who's said that they're both wrong over and over again. And at that time, it was wrong to split in two, and now it's wrong. We're all supposed to be after the truth.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0385par0186	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0187	If there are allegations that any group in any country has attempted to do a job using people close to them in the judiciary against the country's government, we should all consider it. The judiciary will be independent, neutral; it will be essential to the state of law, but that does not mean that independence, neutrality, is not bound by anything.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0386par0188	Mr. Secretary, it was you who called the prosecutors.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0387par0189	There will be, there will be, not independent, there will be.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0190	The Constitution expresss commitment with respect to law, law, and the appropriate conscience, and rejects any other commitments. If the judges and prosecutors apply these commitments within the law of a country, which is the Constitution, the law, the law, and their compliant consciences, the state of law will be strong there, and if we hesitate here, we will all have more complaints. For that reason, there may be opinions to undermine the government over these events, but if the judiciary reveals something that does not recognise the Constitution and the law of some civil servants who serve within the country, then we must all stand together against it. Look, the investigations have begun.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0388par0191	You're changing prosecutors, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0192	Investigations have begun. The people who started the investigations, the Republican prosecutors, everyone...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0389par0194	Why did you change the previous ones? Aren't they prosecutors?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0195	Mr. President, let me just say this.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0390par0196	Here, finish your sentence.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0197	Everyone valued the prosecutors' indictments and preparations, but in the course of the investigation, other prosecutors made decisions about them, a non-obstruction decision. Now, the prosecutors who started the investigation are right, honest, legal, and the prosecutors who ended the investigation are the opposite, such a perception.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0391par0198	What's it gonna be?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0380par0199	He's the prosecutor, he's the prosecutor, he's the prosecutor, why his opinion is so precious, the other one's opinion is so valuable, why his decision is so, and the other one's is all about political posture. The Investigation Commission's confidentiality decision... the investigation commissions, you all know very well... are the commissions that lead a criminal investigation on behalf of Congress, like the prosecutor. The prosecution is doing its duty, implementing the Penal Code in the investigation process. The investigation is confidential. If he felt the need for such secrecy, he could demand such a decision, and the judge could make such a decision. We need to see if this request, this decision is legal or not. It's legal. I don't think it's appropriate for any of us to put people's dignity and dignity under the table, even if it's political. I thank you again.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0392par0202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0393par0205	It suits you, according to your law.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0392par0206	Mr. Original, you can come in here and talk to Mr. Secretary. You don't have to yell from there. There are three motions in Article 27. All three motions are the same. I'm reading it, I'm going to process it together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 27 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sırrıyya Önder Sebahat Iğdır İstanbul The signatures of the other motion are: Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemalettin Yilmaz Münir Kutluata Kütahya Afyonkarahisar Sakarya The signatures of the other motion are: Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Ömer Süha Aldan Uçük Zonguldak Muğla Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0394par0224	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0392par0225	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0395par0226	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0392par0227	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. On the other motion, Mr. Münir Kutluata will speak, Congressman of Sakarya.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0396par0231	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the amendment proposal for Article 27 of Law Proposal No. 655. I salute the High Council. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is obliged to improve the legal state of the Republic of Turkey with its laws as a legislature, making the justice system more stable. That's one of the reasons why it's the Supreme Assembly. However, this great parliament is unable to perform its duty due to the numerical superiority of the AKP's power. While drafting legislation and proposals are being issued, the law's first-degree goal is to free AKP power from legal responsibility, it seems. That's why we can't make developer regulations in our laws, our laws and laws are being made a mockery of, our legislation is not being developed, it's being destroyed. In many cases, the laws are often introduced in the form of the law, preventing consultations on the residency commissions over the fact that the substances that have nothing to do with each other are within the same law. Since it's not handled in a wholety, the specific objectives for putting most substances into the law are overlooked. On the other hand, even the most ordinary regulations are being adopted into basic law, preventing separate discussion of materials. In many cases, the specific purposes of the law's surrender to the address are veiled with some acceptable substances. Adeta, at least part of every legal arrangement is a metaphor for losing track of members of the government and public officials involved in the crime. Now we're dealing with a similar practice. The main goal is to dilute high judicial bodies, such as the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office, to prevent administrative and judicial questioning of the actions of power. The 27th article, which I have promised, says: "The 59th article of Law 2797 has been lifted from effect." The 59th article, which has been removed, is related to the opening of the judicial year, which is opened every legal year in Ankara. It says, "This is what has been removed from force." The forensic year is the opening day and the opening ceremony is the day, in a sense, to celebrate the independence of the Turkish judiciary. Opening ceremonies are not only held in Ankara, but in the provinces through bars, ceremonies highlight the independence of the judiciary, the importance of justice. The opening day and ceremonies are a platform for the problems of the justice community, where the importance of the state of law and the separation of forces is highlighted by representatives of the judiciary who strive to stay out of politics. Why does the Justice and Development Party abolish this opening day ceremony in the 13th year of its arrival in power? What happened in Turkey over the past 12 years, and the prime ministers, justice ministers, even presidents of this country were unable to attend meetings hosted by representatives of the independent judiciary? Well, now that it's come to this, what's the cancellation of the juvie opening ceremony gonna solve? Will it eliminate the fact that the righteous Turkish judiciary is bringing the AKP to its command? Is he going to hide the corruption swamp in which power is sinking? Will it save us from paying for the divisive policies of power and the practices that drove the country into a brother fight? The answer to all of them is no. So, what's the use? It'll only keep the power from being thrown in your face by the higher judgment of what it does. Then you need to advise power: Get your wits about you and get out of the swamp of corruption and separatism that you've fallen into. Since you can't even stand the expression of what you've done in a state of high judgment, I say it's in your best interest to review your situation in an independent judiciary where your account will be questioned, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0397par0238	Thank you. Mr. Gökhan Morning will speak on the other motion, Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0398par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we've just been told a few words about the dignity and dignity of the people here. I agree, it's very important to protect one's dignity and dignity, but the first task is for one's own. No matter what political party it belongs to, a politician has to give it to anyone who asks for every penny of his earnings and property. No one can be rich in politics, no one can hide behind various institutions when they are rich in politics. Now, he's talking about the causality of innocence, Mr. Secretary. Of course, innocence is a general principle that we all know. I've been a lawyer for 20 years. In all the law books, if we want to talk about independent judgment, neutral judgment, we need to establish mechanisms that will block the pressure of the administration on legislation and the judiciary. If you're for independent judgment, impartial judgment, the first thing you need to do is resign from the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors along with your undersecretary. If you resign, then we can submit ourselves to the judiciary, hand over politicians who claim corruption, and wait for the outcome, but let's wait for the purity of that judgment while you make it that way. No one thinks what they're going to say. I'm going to say this once again: if there's seven writers in one person's bedroom, I don't know, on the next floor, the safe deposit box or the safety deposit box, if he can't account for the watch he's wearing, if he's pocketing the money with the chocolate boxes, no one can tell me about his innocence, brother. You have to see them like this and understand them like this. Now, a ceremony took place on the 146th anniversary, and at this ceremony, the Prime Minister of the period said he would not go to the next Supreme Court ceremony because he did not like the speech of the President of the Turkish Bar Association. The Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Prime Minister may not come to that ceremony. This is our tradition since 1943. So, of course, the president of the Bars would come to this ceremony. You know what he said? Let's go and discuss the matter with the Council of Presidents. If only he hadn't said that, if only he could have looked out for the separation of law, conduct, and judgment with respect for himself first. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, as far as the press is concerned, we know about the talks at the President's Board. 14 members of the 27 members say, "Let's make things right between us and politics, and let's have the broad possibilities of the Constitutional Court." Look, if these words are true, if these words have been spoken in the Supreme Court of Judges, let no one tell us about the independence of the High Judicial Court in Turkey. You're making an offer today, and you're saying that I'm going to eliminate this restoration that's been going on since 1943, so the judicial year ceremonies will no longer be legal. What if I lived in a normal, normal country? It's the tradition that counts, and even if it doesn't, it's the legal year's ceremony that goes on. No, we know what your goal is. The President of today's Republic has only one goal that he cannot bear to be criticized in his face, he cannot bear to be criticized, he cannot bear the critical mind, and he does not strike the truth against his face. Look, Turkey is going to the General Assembly of the Chambers and Stock Exchanges when it's Prime Minister, and every time it says, "I have an urgent speech, I have an emergency meeting, I'm going to speak, I'm going to leave. What's the state tradition?" You listen to everyone, then the Prime Minister comes out and talks. Does a Prime Minister walk away with the same excuse every time? Now, that attitude has been reflected in these negotiations, and now you're offering us a bill. A friend also says: "There is no special law for a person. " I regret to say that it has become a habit of the age of living, so please get rid of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0399par0253	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. The motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 28; two of these proposals are the same, I read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 28 of Law Proposal 655 be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Jesus Gök Tanju Özcan Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 28th Amendment proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0400par0278	Sir, the Constitution doesn't light a red light, I disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0399par0279	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0401par0280	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0399par0281	Mr. Münir Kutluata will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0402par0284	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the grounds of Article 28 of Law Proposal No. 655, which is currently in session. I salute you again. In this law proposal, there are articles that regulate the subject of notarism, regulations on the monthly incomes of judges and prosecutors, and finally, there are regulations that serve the main purpose of power. We can divide the law proposal into two main sections: cloaking materials and the main purpose. If it were brought in separately, the arrangement for notaries would have been passed, as well as the arrangement for improving the income of our judges and prosecutors, with necessary improvements. The main goal would be to put on serious debates and perhaps avoid destruction. That's not how it happened, the healing that needed to be done was used to cover up the damage that shouldn't have been done. We, the MPHP, as the National Movement Party, agree with the notary arrangement, support the salary arrangement of judges and prosecutors. By the way, we condemn this as material for the HSYK elections. At the same time, we ask for the benefit of all aiding forensic personnel from the courts to the prisons to address an apparent injustice. We have grave objections to the irrigating of the State and the Supreme Court and the failure to fulfill its original functions. We see that these regulations are a continuation of efforts by a government that has not been cleared of corruption, who has not been brought to justice, to disband judges and prosecutors, to suppress courts. This effort appears to have reached high judgment and continued repeatedly after the state of the mind of the judiciary, the HSYK. When the prosecutor decided to stop the execution of the GalataPort tender, Mr. President said on November 24th that the law was something else, the law was something else. That's exactly what we're saying. If the law is legal, they will cease to be separate, and a fair law will be established with the law. Give up these legal regulations that pave the way for all kinds of illegalities, and do not make the country illegal by destroying our laws. Mr. President, why did Galataport take the court's decision to accuse his judges of treason? This is where we see your answer. Now, with this law, the State Department is being made unable to stop the secular affairs of power. This is the third stop on Galataport. If you even consider this issue alone, you'll realize why the legal system is being systematically corrupted. The first stop took place in 2005 and the second one in 2009. During the first decision to stop, Finance Minister Unakitan had given Galataport (Galataport) to businessman Sami Ofer (the businessman) in a way that spreads in forty-nine years, and he had received major reviews on the way he gave it to the businessman -- the way the meetings were made in hotel rooms, at midnight from the ministries. At the time, the Prime Minister said he had met him during the day and had not met him, and had met him at night and on a television show. Dear MPs, look, Deputy Prime Minister Abdulatif Sener, I am the one who stopped that tender in 2009 when those who stopped the Galataport tender were accused of treason, and I, Galataport, were the biggest score, robbery and zoning rate project in the history of the republic. As you may recall, after that date, after this court carried out its decision, the Justice and Development Party was unable to hold on. Now, even if you put the matter of Galataport side by side with the prosecution's efforts to defunction these laws, the state of power is revealed. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0403par0295	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 28 of Law Proposal 655 be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0404par0310	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0403par0311	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0405par0312	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0403par0313	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. On the other motion, Mr. Tanju Özcan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0406par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I will not be asking for December 17th or December 25th investigations that have often been asked while this law is being discussed here. I won't mention the illegal palace in my speech, but while Mr. Secretary is here, I'd like to ask: Is there really justice in Turkey? That's what I'm asking as a congressman. Mr. Secretary, do you know why I'm asking this? You know, there's a February 7th process in Turkey, where every case has been served under the table by now, or it's become public knowledge, but nothing has come up about this case that almost led to the arrest of the Undersecretary of the MIT. In fact, it's such a classified file, friends, I don't know if you know, as a deputy of the Republic of Turkey, I'm saying from the parliament bench: I've filed a joint complaint against this case, I've filed a criminal complaint against the Undersecretary of the MIT, concerning the Oslo process, I've claimed it's a crime; and I've already signed my name, and I've filed a criminal complaint. Then it turned out that this investigation file was merged with other files. In Ankara, we had a special prosecutor named Chief Public Prosecutor Hussain. One day I spoke to him. Yes, you are the subject of this case. He said. However, over three years have passed, over three years have passed, and about the case in which a member of the Republic of Turkey is a member of parliament, what is your complaint, brother? Why did you press charges against the Undersecretary of MIT? Let's hear your complaints. You didn't say anything, Mr. Secretary. In fact, I asked for the image of this file, and I wanted to see it as a receptacle, and I said at least give me this. They didn't even say no. In fact, I recently read about it in the press, and it's been decided that there's no room for prosecution. Yeah, well, that decision wasn't delivered to me either. Now, would that happen?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0407par0321	Tell me, Mr. Tanju, if there's been a trial. Has there really been a trial?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0406par0322	Look, as MP of the Republic of Turkey, I'm telling you from the stand, I haven't been asked to testify about a case I'm a co-host of, what are you saying? It hasn't been said. In fact, you've been informed that there's no room for prosecution. You haven't even been called that. Look, Mr. Secretary, we have an appointment with you tomorrow, and I'm asking you, please give me at least a copy of the ruling that there is no room for prosecution on this case, and I'll see if I have an objection or not.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0407par0324	You want justice too, Mr. Tanju?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0406par0325	About the December 17th investigation, at least it was written about Ali Özgündüz: "Because the client has no right to object, there is no place for him to submit to the decision. " I wonder if anything like this has been written about me, at least. Friends, look, I claim there is no justice in Turkey, and I say this by speaking of a concrete event. Some of our friends are laughing, but I want to make it clear there's nothing to laugh about. One day tomorrow, I hope you won't have to remember my words about the events you're about to experience. As our fathers said, one day there will be a turnaround, and one day there will be a reckoning. Let's hope you don't have to remember this. And while Mr. Secretary is here, I'd like to ask another question, and I'd like to think that there's been a recent attempt in Turkey to create a perception management with a series of television shows. I'll tell you their names: the Valley of the Wolves, which is now on the air, is now on the air. Your government has been creating a perception management through this series for a long time. A series called "Reaction" began on Star TV.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0408par0328	We're not watching, how can you watch?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0406par0329	I'm very curious, and I sincerely ask, is the National Intelligence Agency writing the script of these shows? Is your government printing it? Do you provide financial support for these shows through the Ministry of Culture? I'd really like to hear from you if there's such a mission or not. This is the first time in the world. The government is running a process, and to get public support for this process, it's trying to create a perception management through series, through multi-watched sequences, and I want you to be careful about that. When you watch these shows two episodes in a row, you'll know what I mean. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0409par0333	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 29: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 29th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. In addition to the clause B, we propose and propose that we change the "30-five" sign to "30-five." Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal No. 655 currently in session is 29. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. "MEDDE 29-2802 8 of the Law of Judges and Prosecutors. The second paragraph of Article C has been changed, as follows. "For administrative candidates, whether to graduate from law school or to finish a foreign law school and to take a test and get a certificate of success from the classes that are missing according to law schools programmes in Turkey." Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 29 of Law Proposal 655 be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0410par0360	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0409par0361	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0411par0362	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0409par0363	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal No. 655 currently in session is 29. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. "MEDDE 29-2802 8 of the Law of Judges and Prosecutors. The second paragraph of Article C has been changed, as follows. "For administrative candidates, whether to graduate from law school or to finish a foreign law school and to take the test and obtain a certificate of success from the failing classes in Turkey according to law schools programmes." Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0412par0374	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0409par0375	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0413par0376	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0409par0377	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz will speak. Mr. Akagun Yilmaz, Uğur MP.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0414par0380	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman, I'd like to give you a warning from here before we discuss our motion. In Article 6 of this law, which we are currently discussing, you know, there's been an adjustment to the notary's electronic operations. There's news in the papers today, the MERNIS system is down, 130 million recordings are in danger. So our population system is collapsing. Now, we've warned here that notary documents made in the electronic environment must be prepared in the physical environment as well. I'm asking the Minister -- he's not listening to us -- and I'm saying, please, let's do the right thing to do in that article -- again, through technical negotiations -- in order to make the documents available in an electronic environment in physical environment, and I'm warning you on the news of this newspaper.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0415par0382	They're getting ready in the physical environment.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0416par0383	It's gonna happen anyway.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0414par0384	Now, in particular, as for today's motion, in our motion for amendments to Article 29 of Law Proposal 655, we propose that especially those who are excluded from law school graduates who have been taken into administrative jurisdiction, such as political, economics, business, even people who have been taken from public education schools, are acting as judges in administrative justice. This doesn't really fit in with the duty of a judge. That's not supposed to happen. In the past, maybe law school students weren't enough, law school graduates might not have applied enough, but now there are thousands of law school graduates. As such, it's not right for people who have no legal judgement and who have no legal knowledge of the law to serve in the administrative judiciary, such as other businesses, economics and so on as university graduates. That's why we're asking for the acceptance of our motion. Beyond that, it is actually another element of AKP's participation in the judiciary. Those who wanted to go from lawyer to judge were five years away until now, but those who served three years with the amendment could pass. This, as we all know, will require 8,000 judges and prosecutors in the next two years. In this case, we consider it an epiphany of AKP's understanding of creating staff here because those who practice for three years will be employed and will be interviewed more. So we don't think it's the right approach for lawyers to take five years without actually practicing law. So we removed it from the material text. We're repeating our demand that law graduates should only be law-school graduates in administrative court. Many law school students have also sent petitions to all of us, saying, "Please, don't block us." I'd like to give you another piece of information. After that, there's a substance violation. We particularly think that the interview board should be changed under Article 9 (a) of the Judges and Prosecutors' Law. I'm talking about him because we don't have a chance to talk about substance abuse. The whole event -- politicisation of the judiciary, loss of independence and neutrality -- is actually passed by the interview board, where young prosecutors and judges have been taken, or those who have passed as lawyers. Especially since the interview board doesn't act on independent, objective criteria, it's mostly because they don't look at their ability to save, hardware and judgment, and they're looking at their political choices, so the fish smells all over again. The young prosecutors and judges who were first taken, as you all know, can also appear parallel to the structure in front of us. Therefore, we suggest that the interview board should be replaced, 2 from the Justice Department; 2, from the Justice Academy; 3, from the Bar Association; 1 from notarys; 1 from 15 years from academics. We also think that this examination at the interview board should definitely be video-visited and that the judicial path should be clear. This is a very important thing. Look, no matter what power comes, the powers of the past have made the same mistake, and you're making the same mistake. Those young judges and prosecutors, who you made a mistake to make, according to their political preferences, are operating in a different organisation -- not law -- which you put in front of us today as an unwanted parallel structure.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0389	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0414par0390	We think there should be judges and prosecutors who can decide with legal formation, regardless of where they're connected. That's what we're going to do next. I specifically ask that our friends in the AKP Group be sensitive about this. I think they should listen carefully to our substance abuse on this matter.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0392	Thank you, Mr. Akagun Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0414par0393	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0395	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 29th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. In addition to the clause B, we propose and propose that we change the "30-five" sign to "30-five." Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu (Osmaniye) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0418par0401	My dear President, the constitutions are not only the fundamental norms that bind them, but the most private text in the language groups they belong to. However, in terms of our current Constitution, the second wife may not be correct, but the motion, as per its content, is correct as the rules of language writing, but because there is not enough to participate, I am low on appreciation.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0402	Thank you. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0419par0404	Mr. President, I agree with the motion. With your permission, I'd like to clarify something Mr. Akagun Yilmaz said about notaries.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0406	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0419par0407	Notaries keep all the documents they've filed physically. The documents of information that comes into the electronic environment are notarized. There's nothing wrong here, especially to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0408	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0420par0409	Mr. President, I'm going to have the Commissioner's statement read our alibi.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0410	Thank you. Mr. Commissioner, if you'd be so kind as to say so often. This conversation of yours is why we're reading motive. When multiple digits are expressed in writing, they are written together. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Now, there's a proposal for a new substance violation and a substance violation. In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, the meeting of the Commission as a new clause will be open on the motions which the commission has mostly participated in, and the number of motions laid out in this article can be submitted. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins in the motion with only 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if the Commission simply disagrees, I will remove the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal No. 655 currently in session is 29. We propose and provide that the following clause be added according to this clause. "Article 30 - 2802 of Article 9/A of the Law of Judges and Prosecutors The joke's been cancelled, 10. The following sentence is added to the joke and is 6. The joke has been changed as follows. "The Council of Ministers will also appoint three members from the Bar Association, who will also appoint a member of the Association of Notarys for each test, two members from among their members for each examination, who will be appointed by the Justice Academy board for each test. It consists of nine members, including a member of the university's Law School Criminal or Legal Department, who has worked for at least 15 years in the profession. The interview can be recorded on video and can be applied for a judicial basis for the result of the interview. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Jesus Sky Mr. President, is your commission only allowed to participate in the motion most of the time?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0421par0428	Dear President, on behalf of participating politics, I would like all members of my Commission to be present. In fact, your call is a call to friends, but I lack the opportunity to express positive will in the face of the majority, which is not part of the 45th and 87th Articles of the Civil Code. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0431	Thank you. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. There are three motions in Article 30: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 30th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. In accordance with Article 2802, we propose and propose the addition of the declaration from January 1, 2014, following the declaration of "ere compensation" in the new joke added to Article 106 of Law 2802. Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemalettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal 655 is 30. Article 106 of Article 2802 to be changed to 30,000. We offer and propose that the last joke of the article be changed as follows. ▪ Judgement allowance is taken into account in paying pensions and pensions, and pensioners are also entitled to that right. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 30th amendment of the current Law Proposal 655 rows be changed in the following manner. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel ▪ The Law of 30 - 2802 is 106. Article 4. The statement "to the judges and prosecutors to the high board inspectors and interior inspectors of the ministry" following the statement "The Justice/Investigators'), 5. "Except for foreign language compensation" and item 5. The following joke has been added to come after the joke, the current 6. The phrase "tax" in the joke has been changed into "tax and deduction." "Judge 1. President, Chief Prosecutor, Supreme Court Attorney, Prosecutor's Office, Supreme Court 1. Vice Presidents, Deputy Chief Public Prosecutors, Supreme Court Attorneys, Supreme Court and Prosecutors, Undersecretary of Justice, Supreme Court and Prosecutors, 1. Class Judge and Prosecutors, 1. An additional monthly compensation will be paid to the staff who work under the Central and Country Agency Commission and other judges and prosecutors and other prosecutors who have been assigned to the classroom, as well as to the coefficient of 15,000 indicators on office monthly. The additional monthly allowance from judges and prosecutors who are subject to this law to those who serve in the Constitutional Court, and the grant paid to those who serve in the Court of Incompatibility, one of the additional compensations and the higher ones are paid in this joke. " Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0422par0458	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0459	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0423par0460	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0461	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to improve the monthly salaries of judicial employees working within the Justice Department, Central and Country National Justice Commissions, along with judges and prosecutors, in terms of a qualified, effective judicial service and working peace. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal 655 is 30. The amendment of the 15,000 terms in Article 2802 to 30,000 is 106. We offer and propose that the last joke of the article be changed as follows. ▪ Judgement allowance is taken into account in paying pensions and pensions, and pensioners are also entitled to that right. Omar Suha Aldan (Mugla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0424par0471	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0472	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0425par0473	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0474	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0426par0475	Omar Suha Aldan.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0417par0476	Mr. Omar Süha Aldan, the muğla MP, is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0427par0479	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, we're going to look at the matter that has a motor, so to speak, and we'll see. The 30th article is an arrangement for a salary increase. Of course, there's a bit of a point in going back in time when you say salary increase, and I'd like to honor one person here. In 1992, his name was mentioned in the Seyfife of the CMUK, and for the first time, there were significant changes in Turkey's Penal Code to regulate the rights of the accused. Until then, Mr. Seyfi Oktay, our Minister of Justice, made a great effort to increase the salaries of our judges, prosecutors, and one of the interesting things was that at the time of Ozal, a contract officer had been put into practice at the time of the Motherland Party. In a small district, the judge, the prosecutor, was ranked number 200. The postal distributor who worked at the PTT (PTT) in that district received more money from the judge, and then the slogan among us was seen as superior to the one who distributes the post, the one who distributes justice in this country. When it came time to raise the salary -- Seyfi Oktay, all the judges, has activated the prosecutors, and we've bombarded them with heavy fax bombings, he went by his hand, had the president sign in private, and for the first time, the judge made a significant improvement on the prosecutor's salary. Because of their contribution to this country in terms of human rights and at least providing the legal community with the wages they deserve, Mr. Seyfi Oktay, I salute you once again and express my thanks. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Of course, from time to time, friends focused on this arrangement without matter. Really, an additional 15,000-dollar settlement doesn't reflect on pensioners. This is an important handicap. In fact, I told fellow Justice and Development Party members during the commission's work that if you want to get rid of someone, if you want to get rid of this salary increase, they'll already retire; they won't need that kind of variation, they'll retire, they'll retire. In this sense, it's a very negative picture. According to this salary increase, pensioners will face a loss of two-thirds, so the salary difference between pensioner and employee will increase even more. There is a great expectation in that sense. At the same time, during our talks on the Commission, the court's poor workers often demanded an increase in their salaries. I know it's a duty to express their demands here. On the other hand, there are two others who are troubled again. Maybe you don't see much. Treasure lawyers, especially public defenders, are in real trouble. Freelance lawyers are in a lot of shape in Turkey. So it's not what it looks like from the outside. In one town, a couple of high-profile lawyers may make a lot of money, but most lawyers are working with other lawyers today for $300, $400, and they're in a difficult situation when they're forced to make a living as a public defender, at least as a public defender. The owners of the estate... once we were jealous of the owners of the estate, because they were paid higher than the prosecutors, but today they're in serious trouble. On top of all that, this increase in salary is a joy to the judicial community. Even if we find this effort incomplete, we still support it. But the fact that the distribution of income in Turkey is an important problem, the labour shortage is an important problem. As such, the judge wishes to review the salaries of all public officials, instead of palliative solutions to certain sectors such as prosecutors, I respectfully salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0428par0487	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 30th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. In accordance with Article 2802, we propose and propose the addition of the declaration from January 1, 2014, following the declaration of "ere compensation" in the new joke added to Article 106 of Law 2802. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0429par0494	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0428par0495	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0430par0496	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0428par0497	Mr Mehmet Erdogan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0431par0500	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the amendment motion we submitted on Article 30 of Law Proposal No. 655. I hereby salute your high council. Article 30 arranges a salary hike for our judges and prosecutors. May this raise be a blessing to the magistrate and our prosecutors. However, of course, the most important lack of this arrangement is the fact that it does not reflect retirement. Thus, since the gap between the working judge and the retired judge will increase, all our judges are now forced to work until the age of 65. This will then be a major obstacle to becoming a prosecutor for our young graduates from law schools who have found 115. Of course, it makes sense for the AKP to raise judges and prosecutors. Once the AKP's power is over, AKP people will have a lot to do with the judiciary. That's why power invests in the judiciary. This may seem true in plain logic, but remember, friends, judges make decisions with their consciences, not their wallets. Of course, with these changes, you're trying to bring the judiciary to its axis, but the judgment you're trying to make to yourself today, when power changes tomorrow, it will be able to get into the hands of others and ask you more accounts. Of course, with this arrangement, you give only judges and prosecutors a raise, but the judgment is one. Although justice is only on your party's sign. If we want the judgment to work properly, we need to solve the problems of all judicial employees. Hence, this salary arrangement further undermines pay justice among judicial workers. If we're going to be fair, there should be a salary arrangement from your clerk to your bailiff to the executive director to the editor, to the criminal execution officers, to all of them. Since 2002, a significant number of public employees have been paid back in real terms. For example, last week we spoke on the occasion of Teacher's Day. Most of our teachers are in debt, unable to make a living, and are moonlighting. Again, the salaries of property managers until AKP power were always ahead of judges and prosecutors' salaries. They were always paid more than judges and prosecutors and many other trade groups until your return. However, with the arrangement we are now discussing, the salary of a first-class property manager will be approximately the equivalent of a 9th degree judge, a prosecutor's salary, which has just begun his post. This injustice, along with this arrangement that will lead to serious injustice among the rulers of the estate, and the members of the judiciary who served together in the country, must be resolved as well as the problems of the rulers of the estate. Since 14,000 judges and prosecutors can be raised by this proposal, the salaries of the managers of the property, whose number is around 1,700, can also be equated with judges, prosecutors' salaries, and thus a significant problem can be solved. Again, promises made to the police by your power have been forgotten. You -- by your former Prime Minister -- have repeatedly promised to give additional 3600 indicators to the police, but today you have forgotten your promise to the police, and you're thinking of confronting them with a new security package and other victims. Again, public defenders, friends, really, among public employees, are the least paid employees according to what they do. Of course, when we look at this bill that we're discussing as a whole, we have a vision of 2023, which the AKP is talking about a lot. Now, every six months in the judiciary, we discussed a new regulation that contradicts the previous arrangement under the name "reform" in this Parliament, in the last 24th Legislature. This is nothing more than a journey to dreamland, where those who can't see a six-month distance from the judiciary can talk about their vision of 2023, which will lead Turkey to new visions. I salute your grand delegation with the wish of our motion.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit04spe0432par0512	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0432par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal No. 655. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Congressmans, we've just learned from our past Parliament Speakers and that the wife of our Karabuk MP, Mehmet Ali Şahin had passed away. We ask God's mercy to the deceased and offer our condolences to the president and to his family.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0433par0008	Mr. President, would you excuse us for a moment?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0432par0009	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0433par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. We've just been informed that Mehmet Ali Şahin Bey's wife has passed away. We ask God's mercy on your deceased wife, and her place will be in heaven. Mehmet Ali Şahin Beye and his entire family, we ask for patience, we share their pain. I wanted to point that out. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0434par0016	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0435par0019	Mr. President, after this sad news we have just received, we offer our condolences to Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahin Bey, his family, his relatives, and to the AKP community and the political institution that has been his political friend. We really think it's an untimely loss. Unfortunately, we regret to see such losses one after another in our House. We, the Republican People's Party family, offer our sincere condolences to all of you, especially Mehmet Ali Şahin.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0436par0022	Thank you. Dear Line...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0437par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. We have learned that the wife of our Karabuk MP and our President of Political and Legal Affairs, our esteemed Minister Mehmet Ali Sahin. My condolences to Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahine, his family, his children. God rest his soul. On behalf of my group, we share the pain of our Minister. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0438par0029	Once again, our condolences to the President, we ask his beloved wives to have God's mercy on them. Yes, there are three motions in Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal No. 655 is currently in session. The terms in the article shall be "conditions" and offer to be changed. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Ömer Suha Aldan Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the Law under Article 31 of the Law Proposal 655 shall be changed in the form of the truth. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 31st of Law Proposal No. 655. In accordance with Article 2802, we propose and propose the addition of the sentence "judges and prosecutors who have retired from this right can also benefit" to the end of Article 112/A added to Law 2802. Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemalettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0439par0053	He disagrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0438par0054	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0440par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0438par0056	Mr. Faruk Bal is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0441par0058	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with this clause, there is an arrangement to provide material weapons to judges and prosecutors. We accept this arrangement by saying yes, as we do, but we find it incomplete. The judge and prosecutors are at grave risk. Because of the case they're facing, a number of people, organizations, terrorist organizations are under threat. Thus, their protection is a state's duty, which is a separate issue, but we find it a positive substance that allows them to acquire weapons so that they can be protected personally. What we're suggesting here is that the judge and the prosecutor are in a very good position to be protected while they're on duty, but there's no protection if they're not assigned protection after retirement. At that time, we made a motion to obtain a weapon to protect the individual, which I submit to the discretion of the High Assembly, which, if accepted, would be a good cause. On this occasion, we have just heard from the bidders, Mr. Ramadan, speak very clearly. Anyway, I congratulated him on his speech in the Commission on reasonable doubt, and I appreciated it, and legally he made a tidy speech. He said today that corruption operations on December 17th and 25th triggered the idea of changing reasonable doubt into strong doubt based on concrete evidence. I congratulate him on his honest behavior. Now, what we're going to criticize here is that after the 25th of December, in certain areas, if the government is being removed from reasonable doubt and strongly doubt based on concrete evidence to prevent search against the people that the government wants to protect, then the concrete doubt must remain in effect, based on concrete evidence, in the same risks against the parallel structure, and in the risks that could threaten fundamental rights and freedoms. The assessments made in literature and academic circles are also correct; the transition from reasonable doubt to strong doubt based on concrete evidence has created great problems, at least creating a gap in the collection of laws. You have to wait for this gap to fill. How's that gonna fill up? A strong case of doubt based on concrete evidence: 1) When applying the search, the measure of this will be determined by the judiciary. 2) While the dwelling immunity is being thrown aside and the search for a dwelling will again be determined by the judiciary, again by the arrest, and again by the conviction, it will be judged. This determination is just like the dose of medicine given by a doctor in a disease. How's he doing? Here, the doctor gives you 10 milligrams of painkillers, for example, to relieve a minor pain medication, but 50 milligrams for a serious injury, a more serious injury, a dose of painkillers that can go up to morphine, which can completely numb the body. Now, in the case of strong doubt based on concrete evidence, it will be assessed separately for search in the dwelling, and it will be assessed separately for other security measures. This is due to the creation of legal proceedings, not by law. What happens then? Here, as Mr. Cemil Cicek puts it, no matter what you write, we do as we please. And that's where the problem comes from. Therefore, I express my faith that this will once again be defecated, and I salute the high council.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0068	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the Law under Article 31 of the Law Proposal 655 shall be changed in the form of the truth. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0443par0075	He disagrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0076	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0444par0077	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0078	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement aims to repair the current narrative disorder. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal No. 655 is currently in session. The terms of the clause will be "conditions" and we offer to change it. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0445par0087	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0088	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0446par0089	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0090	I'm reading the reason: It is correct to allow judges and prosecutors to acquire arms under appropriate circumstances during the time of the attacks. However, it is not appropriate for lawyers who have been attacked more than judges and prosecutors to be prevented from gaining arms under the same conditions to accept our persistent suggestions on this matter. It's been proposed to make matter more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is considered "official identity" in Article 32 of the current law proposal 655 rows. We propose and propose that his declaration be changed into "official identification." Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal number 655 is 32. In accordance with Article 2802, Article 112/B is considered "official identity by founders." Its declaration is "official identity in the work and transactions of the founders." We offer and offer to change it into form. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0447par0110	Sir, similar motions. I'll leave it to discretion.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0111	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0448par0112	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0113	Who will speak on the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0449par0114	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0115	I'm reading the reason: The proposal aims to address the interpretation differences that could be created in the application of matter. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Members of parliament, due to this motion adopted, we must remove the other motion due to the order of the violation of the procedure. Now, I submit the clause to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are agreed to the motion adopted. There are four motions in Article 33. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to replace the declaration of "abolition, cutting from the month, condemning and cutting from the month" in the first joke of the Interim Article 19 which is envisioned to be added to Article No. 2802 under Article 33 of the Law under Section 655, and to be added to the third clause, "Abstruction of Article 65, Article 66," which is included in the third joke. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Adnan Yılmaz Halil Özcan Seyit Ayyüpoğlu Fatih Köçı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 33rd Amendment of Law Proposal No. 655. In accordance with Article 2802, it is added to Act 19. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. 1/11/2014, the disciplinary measures issued against the judicial judges and prosecutors of the Republic and their administrative judges and prosecutors are reviewed, regardless of whether they have been confirmed or not, due to acts committed from 14/2/2005 to 1/11/2014. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors shall review his application within 60 days of the day of the execution of this Law, which has been sentenced to disciplinary action. At the end of the examination, the General Assembly can decide whether to reject the application, as well as a lower disciplinary sentence that follows the removal of the previous decision or action. Decisions made at the request for a review are final. At the end of reviewing disciplinary sentences, decisions do not grant them any financial rights for the years that have been passed on to them. Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemalettin Yılmaz Emin Çınar Kütahya Afyonkarahisar Kastamon Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The General Assembly is currently in session, and the framework of Law Proposal No. 655 is 33. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ömer Süha Aldan Turgut Dibek Uçüklareli İlhan Cihaner Musa Pine Gürkut Acar Article 33: 2802 has been added to the following temporary clause. "The disciplinary sentences imposed on you by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, established by law number 6087 concerning judicial judges and prosecutors, have been examined by the General Assembly of Judges and Prosecutors until 12:10,2014, as of 60 days following the application of this law, as of the day it entered into force. At the end of the examination, the General Assembly can decide whether to reject the application, as well as a lower disciplinary sentence that follows the removal of the previous decision or action. Against these decisions made by the General Assembly, he can request a review from the General Assembly within ten days of the date of the notification, which has been ordered to sentence him or him. Decisions made at the request for a review are final. Disciplinary sentences are nullified and removed from the files of those who have been pardoned. As of the date when the law entered into effect, performance evaluation and development forms that were previously organised against judges and prosecutors of the judiciary and administrative judges and prosecutors will be nullified and removed from their files." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 33 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sırrıyya Önder Sebahat Iğdır İstanbul Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0450par0154	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0155	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0451par0156	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0157	I'm having him read his alibi. The proposal, which we have proposed to remove from the draft text, raises the judgment that the punishment for disciplinary action received by the judicial body would be more likely to appeal to the presence of the judge. Therefore, the matter must be removed from the bill in order to prevent the dangers that will lead to arbitrary regulations in the justice mechanism. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal No. 655 at the General Assembly is 33. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Moses Pine (Izmir) and his friends Article 33: 2802 has been added to the following temporary clause. "Current Article 19 - The disciplinary sentences imposed by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, established by law number 6087 concerning judicial judges and prosecutors, are examined by the General Assembly of Judges and Prosecutors on their application within 60 days of the day of the execution of this law. At the end of the examination, the General Assembly can decide whether to reject the application, as well as a lower disciplinary sentence that follows the removal of the previous decision or action. Against these decisions made by the General Assembly, he can request a review from the General Assembly within ten days of the date of the notification, which has been ordered to sentence him or him. Decisions made at the request for a review are final. Disciplinary sentences are nullified and removed from the files of those who have been pardoned. As of the date when the law entered into effect, performance evaluation and development forms that were previously organised against judges and prosecutors of the judiciary and administrative judges and prosecutors will be nullified and removed from their files." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0452par0171	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0442par0172	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0453par0173	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0454par0174	Why don't you join us, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0455par0175	Just repeat the sentence.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0456par0176	Mr. Ilhan Cihaner of Denizli will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0457par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. The law is not important to me. I take it from your party and the government's superior mind to the work we do. A few days ago, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was among his duties to observe the implementation of the Constitution and whose shadow still governs the ruling party, said that I thought it would be best to say, "I don't know whether to call it the president or the president." I said that if he hadn't come out of a man who had relegated his trust to the 20 per cent of the judiciary during his prime minister's term, dedicated his own armoured vehicle under those who had murdered the law, had he not tendered the judiciary to a gang in a manner of speaking, it might have been meaningful, but in general, I said it was because he had revealed the methodical errors that had made the country, in particular, that made the judiciary this way. The first methodical error -- it's repeated on this bench a lot, but let's say it again -- is the procedure that excludes common intelligence and savings in lawmaking. Thus, this process that has ruined the judiciary has been manipulated. It is tried to be formulated and simplified. However, what we call the act of bloodshed is individual. Who fooled you? Why was he tricked? What was the bargain? If we can't make this clear, we may be facing more of a deception. Legislature cannot be left to a person's ability to negotiate, to his mind, to his imagination. And that's exactly the way the judgment went down, and that's the same mistake. In the same framework, the problem we're having is that instead of being discussed in Parliament by its name, things are being done in other kitchens, such as the accused parallels. So it's possible that he'll make the same mistakes again. The problem, however, is that the Fethullah Gulen congregation is organized in the high judiciary and compensated for the injustices created by this structure. If that's really the point, we'll have to go another way. No, if your goal is to cover up investigations like truck cases on December 17th or 25th under the name of anti-contact, you're still going to end up in a very grave error. As for Article 33: First of all, this is an arrangement to make amends for the harm done in the judiciary, the harm done by organization, but the word "aff" is spoken. The word pardon, the judge, who is a victim of this crime, because of these crimes, is a concept that even prosecutors are opposed to, above all, to legitimize these victims, these actions. First of all, with the amendment proposal, we remove the date limit in the first joke and propose that all disciplinary sentences taken until the new HSYK take place will be reconsidered after the examination of HSYK. Thus, we stand in the way of the unlawfulness of the investigators, judges, prosecutors, who are part of those schemes, as well as the pardon of prosecutors. Other than that, the final joke of the same clause, the judge, who has been pardoned for disciplinary action, makes it possible for prosecutors to, in any way, not be able to make a request for autonomy rights and money for past periods. And that's an inscrutable sentence in itself, because since we're detecting an illegality in this process, why should these colleagues be deprived of their rights and financial demands? And that needs to be eliminated. And we want this joke out of the way. Gene, there are performance evaluations and development forms for judges, prosecutors, as much as disciplinary punishments. These forms are sort of a tag, and the judge is a form based on the promotions of prosecutors, the deployment of prosecutors. There are as many forms of disciplinary action as there are violations, there are victims, and the judge is causing injustices that may even follow prosecutors in their retirement due to their remaining promotions. Therefore, we request that all performance evaluations and development forms organised during the previous HSYK period be removed from their files, but this will bring up a consistent compensation. Otherwise, the injustices will continue. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0458par0187	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 33rd Amendment of Law Proposal No. 655. In accordance with Article 2802, it is added to Act 19. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. 1/11/2014, the disciplinary measures issued against the judicial judges and prosecutors of the Republic and their administrative judges and prosecutors are reviewed, regardless of whether they have been confirmed or not, due to acts committed from 14/2/2005 to 1/11/2014. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors shall review his application within 60 days of the day of the execution of this Law, which has been sentenced to disciplinary action. At the end of the examination, the General Assembly can decide whether to reject the application, as well as a lower disciplinary sentence that follows the removal of the previous decision or action. Decisions made at the request for a review are final. At the end of reviewing disciplinary sentences, decisions do not grant them any financial rights for the years that have been passed on to them. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0459par0199	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0458par0200	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0460par0201	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0458par0202	Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0461par0204	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The arrangement with the matter we're talking about is wrong. In fact, I believe that some disciplinary sentences should be pardoned, as in the previous laws, including all civil servants and public officials, and that the implementation period should be put to a close date. My dear friends, I will now speak to you of Iconium, upon what is seen. As a result of the heavy snow that began in the morning hours of the previous day, there were serious problems in Iconium, life almost stopped, and problems continue. Although meteorology had warned ahead of time, the government and Iconian Metropolitan Municipality have been caught recklessly, in its time and in its inadequacy, inept and infirm. What happened isn't really a major disaster. Until twenty or thirty years ago, we are experiencing a similar day in the common winter that we saw in Konya. The AKP has failed in its government and municipal service presentation. In the process, it also turned out that there was no improvement and improvement in the quality of the service of the Iconian Metropolitan Municipality. With snowfalls, the city and the neighborhood roads, Conium-Istanbul, Conium-Antalia, and Konya-Aksaray roads have long been closed to traffic. There are miles of car lines on the roads, lots of cars stuck on land. There have been numerous traffic accidents on the highways of downtown and interstate. Hundreds of cars, including family and many children, were stuck on the road for more than 18 hours. In 21 counties, more than 150 villages and towns have been announced by our government today that the neighborhood's roads are still closed under its new name. Most of the lconium has not been powered for long, and the electric company has not been able to keep up with the failures. We still have districts and neighborhoods where the blackout continues. My countrymen are always looking for us. The power outage has left many of the city's neighborhoods without water. When there was no electricity again, natural gas was cut, the heater, the heating, the television, and the Internet were completely offline. The lonians are furious that they have long been waiting for electricity in their homes and no response from an official. Due to a power outage the other day, the wheels have stopped in industrial areas, and they haven't been produced for long. Who's going to pay for the loss of our industry, the loss of our industry, the loss of power due to the loss of power? Despite the constant agenda of the power outages, the AKP government has never been a part of it. The last question I gave Mr. Taner Yildiz, Minister of Energy, on October 28, 2014, was passed on the subject, as if there were no complaints and complaints were taken into consideration, and the information given by the private distribution company was sent to me as an answer. The AKP's government must stop supporting its allies and bring a radical solution to the problem of the power outage in Konya. Dear lawmakers, 80 per cent of the greenhouses in the central and counties have been destroyed due to heavy snowfalls, and the roof of some buildings, the building wall, and the iron shades of Camlı Köşk, located in Victory Square have collapsed. CONSAN Offices in the Special Organised Industrial Region have been destroyed, and there has been massive financial damage. Our industrialists who came to the morning factory were shocked by the sight they saw of the rooftops in the migrating workplaces. The products they produce with machines and devices are also inoperable, and our industrialist faces massive financial losses. Those of us who live in this landscape should be ashamed. Our industrialists have asked for the presence and accountability of those responsible who had come before, who had caused their labor to be wasted in businesses that had collapsed and migrated with snow. The AKP government must take care of our citizens who have been damaged in Iconya, and do what it has to do to heal the wounds. In addition, an investigation must be launched immediately to be investigated by the relevant and municipal authorities by uncovering the reason for the migration of businesses in the KonSAN Special Organised Industrial Region. I wish you well from here to all my countrymen. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0462par0212	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to replace the declaration of "abolition, cutting from the month, condemning and cutting from the month" in the first joke of the Interim Article 19 which is envisioned to be added to Article No. 2802 under Article 33 of the Law under Section 655, and to be added to the third clause, "Abstruction of Article 65, Article 66," which is included in the third joke. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0463par0219	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0462par0220	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0464par0221	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0465par0222	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0462par0223	I'm reading the reason: The motion envisions a direct pardon for the notice and cutting sentences from the monthly period due to the verbs proposed in the proposals of judges and prosecutors, and the possibility of applying to the HSYK General Assembly for sentences to stop reprimanding and gradual progress. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer supply and offer after the declaration of the Ministry of Justice, which is mentioned in Article 2 of Article 34 of the current law proposal 655. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the frame 34 of the current law proposal 655 rows. We offer and propose that the article of the action be changed to the form of the action. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali Haydar Proposes Jesus Sky Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 34th amendment of the current Law Proposal No. 655. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Özcan Yeniçeri Emin Çınar Alim Light Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0466par0250	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0462par0251	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0467par0252	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0462par0253	Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0468par0255	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the amendment of the National Movement Party Group on Article 34 of Law No. 655. On this occasion, I salute you all. Now, it's an offer to set up a foreign organization, actually, to appoint a judge abroad. There's no need for such an organization. We've done the state of law in the country, we've dealt with all the legal problems, he's gone abroad! And there's no logic and there's no right to go to a number of staff bumps here. Now, once we look at it, the law is actually based on purpose. Since every law is to be passed for purpose, I wonder what laws we're going to make, or even the laws we've recently passed, have been set up to justify what purpose, so we need to take a look at it. Clearly, this bill is not due to the need of the judiciary, but because of the need of the Justice and Development Party. The reason why this proposal came to the agenda at this time is that it is clearly closely related to the events of the December 17th-25th operations. If it weren't for the 17-25 December operations, I mean, the changes in the law we've been making for about two or three months would not have come up. This bill, which was brought to the Supreme Assembly, is in fact intended to establish the Justice and Development Party's jurisdiction over the judiciary, which is very clear. After being elected to rule over the HSYK, it was up to the Supreme Court and other judicial elements. The aim of this proposal is to eliminate constitutional crimes followed by AKP during the 12 years in the 2015 election, in case it is in danger of losing power. With this proposal, the AKP will actually contribute to self-preservation and in this context to building its own judiciary. In short, with this proposal of law, AKP has been tried to minimize its following and destructions in the event of its loss of power, but you will never succeed. So, you're not in a position to explain shoeboxes like this because of your crimes or corruption in a place where the Kenan Universe is on trial. You're banning the Internet so that the leaky audio recordings of the ruling party won't be published. Sir, you're bringing in a so-called democraticization package to avoid prosecution of illegal relations between the terrorist organization and the terrorist leader and AKP officials. You think we're eating this? It's always about the country, and it's not protected by the law. Therefore, whoever is involved in this will certainly pay for his deeds.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0469par0260	Where's it written? What's the matter, Hajji?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0468par0261	Now, you see, somewhere there's a problem, either bring a restraining order to the courts, or you bring a bill of law, and you try to cover it up, or you try to stop it from being a crime. There's nothing acceptable about it. Now, look, I'll tell you something: no writing on December 17, 25th, no writing about two cops who were killed in Bingol, no writing about the martyrship of three soldiers in Hakkari, no writing about the F4 plane that Syria had dropped; no writing about the stopping of MIT trucks; no writing of his son is forbidden. You've become the rule of bans. I thought you were going to build a Turkey that would get rid of the bans. Now, friend, I mean, if you think it's going to be covered up and shut down by banning people from expressing their opinions and opinions about any event that deeply affects Turkey, you're dead wrong. Eventually, a Molla November will come out, open them up completely, and the account of all the arbitrary behaviors and bans at that time will come to light. There's such a thing as a law state. In the state of law, all savings of governance are subject to law. In the state of law, where the savings of governance are subject to law, you, let alone the state of law, let alone the law, the law, the law, you're subjecting yourself to justice.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0470par0264	Come on, Hodja, don't do it, Hajji!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0468par0265	You're threatening, you're framing. You go out and complain about a prosecutor in front of everyone...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0471par0267	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0468par0268	...with 30,000 people up there, 50,000 people, 60,000 people.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0472par0270	Speak up, teacher.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0468par0271	And while you're at it, you say you're being legal. You can't understand it, you can't perceive it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0473par0273	Teacher, your time is up, Mr. Janitori...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0468par0274	Mr. President, it's over, and so am I. You'll be looking for me a lot.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0473par0275	Why should we call you, Hajji? Be here, where are you going? I said why would I call and tell you why you're leaving? Teacher, we'll call you, don't go anywhere, if we're going to stay here. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the frame 34 of the current law proposal 655 rows. We offer and propose that the article of the action be changed to the form of the action. Ali Haydar Öner (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0474par0282	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0473par0283	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0475par0284	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0473par0285	Ali Haydar will speak on the motion, Isparta MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0476par0288	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're meeting again with a proposal for a law. Why not the bill, but the proposal? Someone's preparing a text, getting some lawmakers to sign it, without the opinion of the relevant institutions...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0477par0289	Don't insult us. Don't say some things.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0476par0290	Why are you offended, my friend, my precious Isparta MP?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0477par0291	You're saying some of them are...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0476par0292	...is being sent to the TBMM in a manner that is public, without sharing with NGOs, without discussing with experts, without arguing. Yes, to every instruction. is being arranged by majority votes. Recently, the chief negotiator for the EU, Mr. Volcano Bozır, stated that Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu had given instructions, that he would no longer give up the bag of law enforcement that puts us in a difficult position against the EU, that there would no longer be a bag of law proposals and drafts. What happened yesterday -- one, two today -- bags, soup, halal arrangements are being restored? Each time you give the EU a good excuse. When are you going to stop making illegal arrangements? It's now 10:30 a.m. Illegal, illegal regulations are being made. No democracy, no transparency. Turkey's chairman of the Grand National Assembly has no control over the TRT General Manager. The public can only watch 14 hours a week how legislature activities are conducted in the legislature, though 24 hours a day, 168 hours a week. People who aren't afraid of society, who aren't interested in secrets, don't turn public television off during their working hours. Congressmans, heart attacks endanger human life, judicial crises endanger society, causing brain bleeding. Incompatible with right and justice, regulations damage the state's back, undermine the nation's sense of trust. A society that loses faith in judgment loses hope of the future. No one has the right to do this kind of harm to the nation and the nation's state, no one in government. Our government currently has representatives, advocates of justice abroad. Ask them: Are there such arrangements in the countries in which they serve -- I ask the General Assembly and citizens to forgive me, I must speak in public language -- are they being arranged? When it comes to your work, you say strong doubt based on concrete evidence, and when it comes to your work, you say, "I don't doubt." You're defending your opponents again today until yesterday. You can't play with the law that much. Even in football, the player from the game can't be put back in the game. You can't play the government's judicial system like a checker stone and shake people's confidence. With the precision of chess and the thought of it, arrangements must be made with justice, with the search for stability. When are you going to make legal arrangements in accordance with universal law, that don't hurt their conscience, that don't bleed? Don't our counselors abroad, our representatives, report on the legal norms of the countries they live in? Are these reports being taken into consideration? For what purpose are our second-degree 10, fourth-degree, fifth-degree legal advisors being sent back? Will these assignments be made to reward someone, or will these staffs be used to transfer those on active missions? I give my regards to those who deserve to see you in Article 35.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0478par0298	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer supply and offer after the declaration of the Ministry of Justice, which is mentioned in Article 2 of Article 34 of the current law proposal 655. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0479par0305	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0478par0306	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0480par0307	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0478par0308	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to strengthen the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 35: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the sign be added after the declaration of "headpiece" in Article 35 of the current law proposal 655. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law proposal number 655 rows is 35. We offer and propose that the clause in the article be changed to "in the form." Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Jesus recommends Sky Ali Haydar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 35th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemalettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0481par0335	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0478par0336	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0482par0337	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0478par0338	Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu will talk on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0483par0341	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the Turkish nation's honorable lawmakers on Article 35 of Proposition No. 655. I salute your high council. We demand that Article 35 be removed from the proposal text. We believe it would be better for the Justice Department to receive services rather than to establish an international organization. So we think it would be appropriate for the item to be removed from the proposal text. The main reason for the provisions brought to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly by AKP governments is the removal of allegations of corruption, bribery and theft, information and documents. The AKP, who said it would fight corruption when it came to power and earlier, chose to find its way instead of fighting corruption, and today is under the shadow and shadow of bribery, corruption, and even theft, especially in December 17th and 25th investigations. As long as the December 17th and 25th investigations are not investigated by neutral and independent judiciary and ruled, the AKP will not be able to escape this shadow and shadow. In the investigations of December 17th and 25th, the slush wheel was revealed. Corruption relations with December 17th and 25th investigations have been uncovered. In the investigations of December 17th and 25th, the child's rights were deciphered by shoeboxes, cash registers, money-counting machines. In the countries where the principles of the legal state were valid, such a painting would have had enough consequences, let alone the removal of the interested ones, to bring the government to resign. However, after the December 17th and 25th events, we had a public defender with a lack of face, but on the other hand, the law enforcement forces involved in the investigation were removed from their duties. Law enforcement officers who could cover the government's corruption have been sought, found, and assigned. Prosecutors and judges facing the investigation were removed from a mission, instead bringing judges and prosecutors to AKP executives, even Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who were not afraid to declare their admiration on social media. The HSYK Law, on the other hand, provided legal infrastructure for the pressure on judges and prosecutors. The AKP's government attempted to avoid both allegations of corruption and bribery, not only in the HSYK Law, but also in a number of judicial regulations or in accordance with national education regulations, to carry out its goals. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the motion to investigate allegations of corruption and bribery has been unanimous in this House. We are all present to witness that the work of the Investigation Commission, established on these motions, has been undermined by the MP, who is the President of the Commission himself. The effort made ahead of the March 30th elections to prevent the documents of corruption and bribery from being discovered has also been shown in the 10 August presidential election, which prevents the Turkish nation from meeting with the truth in both elections. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as far as we know, German and American intelligence has listened to and recorded the executives of the state of the Republic of Turkey. This is information that has been confirmed by them. There are some very important claims that other states are listening. It's a very risky situation for those who run the state, especially for government members, for the Prime Minister to be bugged, for other intelligence agencies to have access to private and classified information, but what's more risky than that is that these people who have allegations of corruption, bribery, have been listened to by foreign intelligence units. In such a case, the fact that members of the government are under suspicion of bribery and corruption is a legal problem, more than a political issue, a national security issue. Of course, if foreign intelligence agencies have the government's relationship behind the scenes about corruption and bribery, those governments will use that information. For this reason, getting rid of corruption and corruption is a legal, political, and also a national security requirement. With these thoughts, I request the acceptance of our motions, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0484par0352	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law proposal number 655 rows is 35. We offer and propose that the clause in the article be changed to "in the form." Ali Haydar Öner (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0485par0359	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0484par0360	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0486par0361	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0484par0362	Isparta MP Ali Haydar Hasar has promised to come here. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0487par0365	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were also struck on September 12, 2010, following the coup of September 12. Before this period, you worked to reduce the number of members of the Supreme Court to 150. You presented this to the public as a judicial reform. Were you determined to reduce the number because you opposed the HSYK of that period, or did you believe you were reforming the law? After the second September 12th coup, you found that 250 was not enough, 23 explanations, and together you raised 160 members in blocks to 387. When you reduced 250 to 150, you tried to reform the weakening, and when you increased 250 to 387, did you reform the fat? This time you add 129 new members to 516, and that's an obesement reform, isn't it? Japan has a high judiciary of 120 members, Greece has 81 members; it is not the same, but there are 179 members in 12 federal appeals courts in the United States. Even in China, there are 340 members. Why are you increasing the number of members in Turkey so much? On the other hand, since January 1, 2015, are you making new arrangements to reduce the function of the current members when the charge of the Supreme Court will be reduced, or to pass? Legal regulations should not be made with a fashion sense. The principles of generality, equality and objectiveness must be observed along with the principle of stability. Yesterday was yesterday, today is today, and tomorrow we'll do as it suits us. Are you saying? This enjoyment cannot be associated with justice, with the principles of the state of law. If those who use the judge are close to us, we do so, and if they are not near to us, then this is what we do. Independent and neutral justice is the basis of the Bangalore, Budapest and Copenhagen criteria. The AKP demonstrates universal rules and joys that violate EU principles. We came from a time when we were aiming for 2014 by firing fireworks during the day. See, the European Court of Human Rights stipulates that while investigating the independence of a court, its members should be looked at as to whether or not there is a position that has the authority to appoint and depose members during the mandate, whether there are measures to protect members from all kinds of influence, whether the court generally looks independent. Incorrectity, objective misdeeds appear as the judge's personal bias. There is no mention of the neutrality of a judge who praises or condemns an authority owner. 39 new members will be appointed to the court. You're authorizing the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office to make arrangements for the State's Attorney's Office, why are these rights and powers denied from the Supreme Court? Or did the Chief Prosecutor have his presidential robe buttoned up and we didn't know about it? There is no mention of the independence and neutrality of those who sew buttons on their robes. This difference in the two judicial bodies of the same status is unacceptable. Why are you excluding yesterday's crowns today? You're throwing away people who don't work for you. When will you be guided by your own free will? I pay tribute to those who deserve it.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0488par0372	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the sign be added after the declaration of "headpiece" in Article 35 of the current law proposal 655. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0489par0378	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0488par0379	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0490par0380	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0488par0381	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to strengthen the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 36: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the authority in the first joke of the clause added with Article 36 of the current law proposal 655. • It has been replaced with the declaration. We offer and propose that the declaration be added. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The frame of law proposal number 655 is 36. Article 2 of the Article 2. The addition of the "Interview of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors" to be added after the "International" statement of his joke. In the last sentence of his joke, we propose and propose that the phrase "indulgible" be changed to "unregisterable." Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Jesus Sky Refik Eryılmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 36th of Law Proposal No. 655. We propose and provide that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemalettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Does the commission participate in the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0491par0408	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0488par0409	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0492par0410	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0488par0411	Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0493par0414	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the matter. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's been expressed since the day. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, MPs, appointed teachers, crawling teachers, managers, workers in the mine, we're looking for justice. I'm asking the government, what have you done with this justice, where have you hidden it, where is it justice? Dear lawmakers, our current deficit is close to $50 billion, and our economy is signalling.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0494par0417	Elegant will close it. She'll be here soon, she'll shut him down.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0493par0418	Dear lawmakers, why is the Ministry of Justice trying to establish a foreign organization while out there in our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, training, tourism, trade attachés, representatives? What's this law enforcement agency doing abroad? They can send the State Department officers in case they need them. Are we such a rich country? If we have money, then let us not be in need of Reza Sarraf. Why all this waste, all this unaccounted-for spending? I'm ashamed now that there's a palace called the palace for days called the palace, called the palace, called the palace of Haram, called the palace, called the palace of power. It says there's a document. The opposition says it's false. Sir, whether it's official or fake, what do you need a place with a thousand rooms with a symbol of the Republic, a symbol of the Chankaya Mansion? Who are you gonna put in there? Who are you going to hide there? (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) What's the use of this expense?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0494par0420	Turkey needs a new place, new Turkey needs a new place.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0493par0421	I mean, the orphan's got a right to it. Aren't we the people who are supposed to protect it? Everybody needs justice. Justice is a sacred concept, like religion. Let's take it, let's take it, let's take it, let's turn it from the right side of justice, let's turn it from the left side of justice, let's take it from the back, let's take it from there. You treat lawmakers like workers, government, you work late at night. What's the hurry? Who are you protecting, who are you saving? Since he was a member of the court for corruption in Istanbul City, those who were covered in immunity have been torn and the rest have been condemned and have entered.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0495par0424	Which one are they?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0493par0425	These convicts have been constantly dealing with that fear, that fear, that justice, for years. What don't they do for it? Outside, in front of the statue of the Turkish-Islam-enemy pope who organized the Crusade to the Turks, we are West Clubmen, entering the European Union. They signed it. What did they do to get away with it? The Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was given to 10 heads of state around the world, only one of whom was Muslim, then awarded the Jewish Supreme Courage Award. What is the fear, the concern, the fear, the fear, the fear of a party in which this great nation has led to the Prime Minister's office in order to do what they say, to appear from them, with the support of a great majority of this nation? Here's our esteemed congressman, the phones have been tapped. I wonder if they're being used as blackmail. Is that where these agencies are built to open up and shut somebody up? Is Germany threatening us? Here's the information, I'll explain it to the world? There's talk of accounts in Swiss banks? For God's sake, let's be together, we'll heal, but let's not threaten our national security, let's not put this nation in danger, let's not make this nation's future dark, let's not interrupt it. Our flag goes down, you shut up. People split up, you shut up. You say you can't go there. He's threatening people, Prime Minister of the country. Is that a good thing? What kind of government is that? I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0496par0430	Thank you. We submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The frame of law proposal number 655 is 36. Article 2 of the Article 2. The addition of the "Interview of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors" to be added after the "International" statement of his joke. In the last sentence of his joke, we propose and propose that the phrase "indulgible" be changed to "unregisterable." Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0497par0437	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0496par0438	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0498par0439	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0496par0440	Mr. Refik Eryılmaz will speak on the motion, Hatay MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0443	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers told us how to make law in law schools, what needs to be made, what legal arrangements to be made. When it comes to social needs, social demands, and such demands, of course, legal regulations are made, and laws are violated. But we see that these legal arrangements are being made to meet the demands and desires of AKP, even a few people, rather than the needs and demands of society in the 12-year AKP administration. In connection with these legal arrangements brought to parliament, opposition party MPs voice criticism from this bench, trying to expose errors. This is being debated in the commissions, but we can see that the AKP government is not paying any attention to these criticisms of opposition party lawmakers, but is trying to pass these laws through Parliament with an understanding that I say, based entirely on its coercion, fully on the parliamentary majority. And with that understanding, because these laws have passed through here, very soon, you feel the need to change these laws again and bring them back here. For him, this antidemocratic attitude must be abandoned. We do what we want on the basis of the majority of us in the congregation. (The understanding of understanding is not a proper understanding of democracy; it is clearly contrary to the pluralistic sense of democracy.) Now, from AKP's practices so far, we know very well that there is no purpose or effort to bring democracy, independent judiciary to this country, and our people believe it. We'd like to have a word with you about the flame opening. Now, the elections are coming up, again, to the Alevis, you're starting a study on how to look cute before the election. I'll tell you this much, you can't solve the Flame problem. Why? Because you look at the Flames with a cross-eyed eye, and you see the Flames as hostile.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0500par0447	For God's sake, talk straight! Don't be hostile! Don't be a separatist!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0448	You can't build a solution to what you see, what you're trying to exclude, what you're trying to alter.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0500par0449	You make them, don't you? You're trouble.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0501par0450	Talk about the motion, the motion.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0451	Look, I'm going to give you an example. 15-20 million Flames live in this country, and they've been performing their worship for centuries. You go out and say: "The temple is not a place of worship. " Who gives you this authority? What right do you have to say that? That's one.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0500par0452	Who gives you that authority?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0453	Two: you brought the lawyers of our people who were murdered there yesterday in the Sivas massacre, you made them minister.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0500par0454	You were in power, blessed you were in power when it happened!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0455	Look, during the time of Yavuz Sultan Selim, 70,000 Flames were slaughtered, and you brought them to the bridge. And that's not enough, in your twelve years of power... I'm calling out of here, answer me this: did you make a single governor in your twelve years of power?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0502par0457	You know what?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0503par0458	I do.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0459	Did you make the only Alemi?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0504par0460	Isn't the governor there? There's the Governor of Isparta!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0461	Did you make the only Alemi (Ali) attorney general of the Republic? Look, every day...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0505par0463	There's the governor. There he is.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0506par0464	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0465	Calm down, calm down. Hundreds of Alevi young people call me every day, and I take the written exam. He says, "I took the law, the prosecutor's exam."
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0507par0467	Don't discriminate!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0468	That's where the records are. He says: "I have been the first in writing, and I have been the second in the exam, and they have eliminated me in the oral test." Look, I'm trying to make a point, that's what the Alevis are thinking today. If you want to take the Alevi's vote, you will give up your separation to these Alevis.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0508par0470	We're not after votes.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0471	You'll see them as first class citizens of this country. Those, too.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0509par0472	Don't be a separatist!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0510par0473	You're the one who's being discriminated against. Isn't that all discrimination you're talking about?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0474	Look, Alevis are the cement of this country. Alevi are people in this country who love their country, their nation, their flag.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0509par0475	That's right.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0476	The Alevis have never persecuted or oppressed anyone in history, but the Alevis have been oppressed, discriminated, banished, murdered throughout history. And in your power, there's a sense that this discrimination is being done to the Alevis, so try to fix it. That's what I'm gonna say.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0511par0477	Let go, for God's sake! Don't create perception!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0499par0478	I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0512par0480	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0513par0481	We've been in power for 12 years. We ruled for twelve years, you ruled for sixty, seventy years.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0514par0482	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0512par0483	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0514par0484	He made some very serious accusations that we couldn't possibly accept, that we were discriminated against. Sir, I'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0512par0485	Here you go, two minutes. He's not supposed to accuse the segregation of someone in this House of others. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0515par0490	Dear friends, of course, it would be a shame to respond to such a truly divisive, segregation-smelling, violent conversation at this time of night.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0516par0491	He's your character, your character! Your character is that divisive!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0515par0492	Dear friends, look, we all have to live up to the responsibility of being a congressman. With his power and opposition, we've all, in some way or another, received votes from the nation, and here we are. We're going to discuss, of course, the problems of this nation, we're going to talk, we're going to do everything we can to solve their problems, but this nation is all of us, this country is all of us. With Alevi, with Sunni, with Kurd, with Turk, with 780,000 square kilometers, from east to west, from north to south, whoever lives here is a first-class citizen of this country. Don't you ever blame a fellow AK PARTY for making such unjust and unlawful accusations against a power that he's working for, my friend?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0516par0494	You've been running for 12 years, for Christ's sake! I wonder how you lie so clearly.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0517par0495	Name, name.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0515par0496	How could you have a conversation that smells like discrimination and smells like violence? These people know who's looking out for the Alekis. They know that. In the past, yes, they also know who is in power in Sivas. This nation has not forgotten my lesson.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0518par0498	You're always saying the same thing, like Temcit rice. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0519par0499	Have you forgotten Roboski? Have you forgotten Sivas? Has he forgotten Roboski, Sivas, everyone?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0515par0500	These people know exactly who's getting close to the Alevi.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0518par0501	Whenever you're in a jam, you take refuge.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0515par0502	For the first time to apologize for my lesson, a Prime Minister is the Prime Minister, who was in the reign of the EC PARTI, and is the Recep Tayyip Erdogan. My Aleki brother. He says. He was a Prime Minister who shared the pain of Armenians, a Prime Minister who said he had a Kurdish problem.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0520par0503	He can't share a Turk's...
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0515par0504	People, Alevis, right-wings, left-wings, and non-Muslims, have a power to uphold the law, and not just the word.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0521par0505	Why did you boo Berkin's mother? You cannot answer for booing the mother of Berkin.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0515par0506	A man's ritual is a man's work. It's not just words, it's what we've shown with our actions. Yeah, well, if someone's gonna show up somewhere, it's all about licenses and merit. Alevi is, Sunni is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0522par0509	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0515par0510	...comes on the basis of power and integrity. Please, friends, I forbid you to use such language. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0523par0517	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0524par0518	Mr. President, look, look at the Ministry. Is there a woman?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0523par0519	Mr. Tanal, I don't have to listen to you every time you stand up, every second.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0524par0520	Would you look at segregation, are there any women?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0523par0521	Please respect the work I've done.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0524par0522	Dear President,
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0523par0523	I'll do the procedure, ask for the word, give it to you or not. Would you please take your seat!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0524par0525	...and they're all men, and half of this society is women.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0525par0526	The president who runs you is a woman!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0524par0527	Sir, can you find a woman, half of this community, among the bureaucrats?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0528	You don't let people process you, honey!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0525par0529	Look at the President.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0527par0530	Look, there's the president.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0531	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0528par0532	Show me a woman. That's discrimination.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0529par0533	How many mayors do you have, woman?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0534	Mr. Tanal, please take your seat!
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0528par0535	Mr. President, you need to maintain the equality of men and women in the first place.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0536	I'm a woman and I'm the Deputy Speaker of the House, is that an answer? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Please... Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the authority in the first joke of the clause added with Article 36 of the current law proposal 655. • It has been replaced with the declaration. We offer and propose that the declaration be added. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0530par0542	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0543	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0531par0544	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0545	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to strengthen the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 37: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of the law in accordance with Article 37, which is included in the interim clause of the current law proposal 655. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the frame 37 of the current law proposal 655 rows. Those who complete their four-year term of office may be assigned at most another year after the final sentence of the Article." We offer and offer to add to his statement. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Ömer Suha Aldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal number 655 is 37. We propose and supply that the clause be removed from the Proposal text. Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemalettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0532par0572	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0573	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0533par0574	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0575	I'm reading the reason: Article 2802 and Article 50 of the Law of Judges and Prosecutors' Law shall be adopted under the amendment of Article 3 of the Law on the State of Justice. Justice services are being dealt with abroad through temporary assignments and purchase of services. The reasons for the proposal do not require the Ministry of Justice to establish an organization abroad. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have the opportunity to work together to benefit from people and organisations who can best defend Turkey's high interests if needed. In addition, it is possible that those who provide the best service for the needed matter will be temporarily assigned abroad. Therefore, there is no need to establish an organization abroad, to build a staff. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the frame 37 of the current law proposal 655 rows. "Those who complete four years of their term of duty may be assigned at most for another year." We offer and offer to add his testimony. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0534par0589	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0590	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0535par0591	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0592	Motive... Those who have already served four years in the foreign affairs of the Justice Department under this arrangement are recommended to serve for another year at the most, and thus the aim is to ensure that other successful judges and prosecutors can also serve abroad. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the interim clause added to Article 37 of the current law proposal 655, we propose and propose that the declaration of "designated" be added. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0536par0601	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0602	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0537par0603	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit05spe0526par0604	I'm having it read. The change was intended to strengthen the narrative and make the text clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-27sit06spe0526par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, and I'm going to read it: At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday 27/11/2014, the following proposals were deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The draft of Law Bills and Proposals of the Agenda and Other Jobs from the Commissions in the 8th period 650 rows of the Bill of Law shall be taken to the fourth order of the agenda and the order of other tasks shall be defined according to this; The General Assembly's continuing work on Tuesday (December 2nd 2014) until the completion of its talks with the Law Bill 650 rows in its merger; The decision of the General Assembly not to meet on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays on Fridays 28, 29 and 30 November 2014, which had previously been agreed on out of week's work days; It's recommended. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal No. 655. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked number 4 in the 176 Mine Businesses, in which the Security and Health Convention is approved. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the 5th ranking Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will no longer be available, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (December 2nd 2014) to discuss legislation and proposals in order of other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
