tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're going on the agenda. According to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be doing the seventh round of interviews today. The seventh round includes the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, the Ministry of National Education, the Board of Higher Education, the Chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, and the budget and precise accounts of universities. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Ankara University Central Management Final Account for 2013 2) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Middle East Technical University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Middle East Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Hacettepe University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Gazi University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Gazi University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget 2015 B) İstanbul University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Boğaziçi University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Bosporus University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Marmara University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Marmara University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Yıldız Technical University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Star Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 10) THE UNIVERSE OF MINAR SINAN BEAUTIFUL ARTS A) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2015 Central Management Budget B) Architect Sinan Fine Arts University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Ege University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Ege University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) 9 September University Central Management Budget 2015 B) 9 September University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Thracian University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Thrace University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Uludağ University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Anadolu University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Selçuk University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Selçuk University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Mediterranean University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Ercijas University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Ercijas University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Republican University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Cumhuriyet University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Çukurova University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) 19 May University Central Management Budget 2015 B) 19 May University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Ataturk University Central Management Account for 2013 A) Inönü University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Inönü University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Fırat University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Firat University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Dicle University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Dicle University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Centennial University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Centennial University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Gaziantep University Central Management Final Account for 2013 29) INSTITUTE INSTITUTION OF INDISTINCT TECHNOLOGY a) Izmir Institute of Higher Technology 2015 Central Management Budget B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology Central Management Final Account for 2013 30) GEBZE HIGH TEKNOLOGY INSTITUTION A) Gebze Institute of Higher Technology 2015 Central Management Budget B) Gebze Institute of High Technology Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Harran University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Harran University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Süleyman Demirel University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Account for 2013 A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Bulent Ecevit University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Blunt Ecevit University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Mersin University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Mersin University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Pamukkale University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Balıkesir University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Alexei University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Alexei University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Sakarya University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Sakarya University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Celal Bayar University Central Management Final Account for 2013 41) ABANT UNIVERSE A) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Kafkas University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Kafkas University Central Management Final Account for 2013 45) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSE a) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2015 Central Management Budget B) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2013 Central Management Final Account a) Niğde University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Niğde University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Dumlupınar University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Final Account for 2013 49) MUGLA STUDENT STUDENT UNIVERSE A) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Final Account for 2013 50) KARAMANMANMAN SURVIVING UNIVERSE A) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Kahramanmarash Milker Imam University Central Management Account for 2013 A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Final Account for 2013 52) EXECUTIVE OSMAN UNIVERSITY A) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University 2015 Central Management Budget B) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Galatasaray University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Ahi Evran University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Kastamonon University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Kastamonon University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Düzce University Central Management Final Account for 2013 57) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY a) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Uğur University Central Management Final Account for 2013 59) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE A) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Namik Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Erzincan University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Aksaray University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Aksaray University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Giresun University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Giresun University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Hitit University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Hitit University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Bozok University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Bozok University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Adıyaman University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Military University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Army University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Amasya University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Amasya University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Final Account for 2013 70) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE A) Pain İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Sinop University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Sinop University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Siirt University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Siirt University Central Management Final Account for 2013 73) THE UNIVERSE OF VICTIMAL BEKTAS VICTIMS A) Nevşehir Haci Bektaş Veli University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Karabük University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Karabük University Central Management Final Account for 2013 75) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 A) Kilis University of December 7th 2015 Central Management Budget B) Kilis University of December 7th, 2013 Central Management Final Account A) Çanırı Karatekin University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Çanırı Karateken University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Final Account for 2013 78) THE UNIVERSITY OF BILECTIC HEITH A) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Cırklareli University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Cırklareli University Central Management Final Account for 2013 81) OSMANI SCARED ATTA UNIVERSE A) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2015 Central Management Budget B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Bingol University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Bingöl University Central Management Account for 2013 A) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Batman University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Batman University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Ardahan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Bartın University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Bartın University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Bayburt University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Bayburt University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Gümühane University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Silverhane University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Hakkari University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Hakkari University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Iğdır University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Iğdır University Central Management Account for 2013 a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Şırnak University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Tunceli University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Tunceli University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Yalova University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Yalova University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Turkey's German University Central Executive Account for 2013 A) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Bursa Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Budget 2015 B) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Final Account for 2013 99) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT a) İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget 2015 B) İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Budget for 2015 B) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 A) Abdullah Gül University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Abdullah Gul University Central Management Final Account for 2013 a) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Budget 2015 B) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 103) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOGY a) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Budget 2015 B) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Final Account for 2013 104) THE UNIVERSE OF ANKARA SOCIAL MEMORY a) Ankara University of Social Sciences Central Management Budget 2015 B) Ankara University of Social Sciences Central Management Final Account for 2013 The Commission and the Government? He's in position. As it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. I'm going to read the names of the members of lawmakers on behalf of their groups and individuals in the seventh round: İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan, Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. İstanbul MP Oktay Saral, İzmir MP Aydın Şengül, Kayseri MP Pelin Günş Bakır, Tekirdağ MP Tevfik Ziyaddin Akbuut, İstanbul MP Osman Boyraz, Amasya MP Avni Erdemir, Ardahan MP Orhan Atalay, Balıkesir MP Ali Aydınlıoğlu, Kahramanmarash MP Mehmet Sımlı, Zonguldak MP Ercan, İstanbul MP Halide İncekara, Malatya MP Mustafa Şahin, Kars MP Yun Yunus Kılıç. MPs who will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group: İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, Ankara MP Zühal Topcu, Kütahya MP Alim Ilm, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut. MPs who will speak on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group: Çanakkale MP Mustafa Serdar Soydan, İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serdar, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar, Sakarya MP Engin Özkoc, Bursa MP Aykan Erdemir, İzmir MP Oğuz Oyan. On behalf of its individuals, Yalova MP Popeye Coshkun -- the government will speak on behalf of Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I now call the first speaker to the stand. İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. Your time is 25 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0002par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budgets of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the Office of Tapu and Kadastro. I salute you all. I apologize for my voice because of the flu. I've had this problem for two days. Dear friends, today is the last day of Human Rights Week. Unfortunately, one more right of life was violated today before I went into my opinion on the matter. A 17-year-old boy named Kadir Çakmak was killed by police bullets in Diyarbakır. We have expressed a great deal of objections to human rights and freedom on this stand, especially to strengthening the authority of the police, but unfortunately our objections have not been taken into account, even with the last-term law, which led to a massacre in order to prevent people on the grounds of police action or reasonable suspicion. Once again, I condemn this attack, and ask for my condolences and patience on the family of Kadir Çakmak, and for his own mercy. Dear friends, the day the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was founded, on this stand, I had a speech again. We've always said that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is not right, that it's actually going to cause serious problems, that it's not possible for the city and the environment to stay together, that it's a policy for opening our cities to the Ranta, and that it needs to be abandoned. Unfortunately, the AKP has brought power, environment and urbanism together, opened cities, cities, all areas to Ranta, and there have been serious problems in that sense. Now, I'm going to make some evaluations on this, but before that... You know, the Minister of Environment and Urbanism before that, because of December 17th today, is also mentioned in a year-long corruption case. That's a serious problem. In fact, the case of corruption in Turkey has been considered a conspiracy, especially by the government. They had a conspiracy against themselves, which they said was not true, but Turkey's public opinion said it was generally true, especially the AKP government should answer for it. In the process, non-obstructive decisions were made through the judiciary. There's a commission in the House, there's no telling what this commission will do. But we want to emphasize that the matter of corruption, of course, is not just a matter of Turkey. Corruption, bribery, serious, in fact, democracy is a very serious problem in less developed countries. Turkey must face it. Instead of confronting it, the AKP government ignored it, and instead of ignoring it, in fact today, all AKP lawmakers have faced something similar, and you have been witnessing here for two days, in fact having to answer. That is because the real fight against corruption is about not having the right effort to reveal these facts. However, if there was corruption, whoever did it could also be members of the government, the Cabinet, and that would be revealed. This was also important for Turkey's democracy, but instead of doing so, this system was maintained because it has somehow become a political approach to AKP power. We once again underline that the situation that emerged from this bench on December 17th and 25th, the corruption operation is a serious problem for democracy in Turkey, that this must be revealed, and that the AKP government must be exposed -- not to conceal it, but to expose corruption -- but to expose it -- so far, the practices have come out in the opposite direction. We wanted to express it once again on this stand today as we were discussing it all over the place. Dear friends, the reason for all of this is actually a systemic problem in Turkey, which is that everything in Turkey is due to the political stance of AKP's power, mostly as a reflection of its policies for profit. So any illegality, any violation of rights, somehow becomes a rule. The AKP has made all its irregularities a rule so far, making laws because it wanted them to. In order to facilitate all laws on matters involving all ministries, especially in order to implement their policies from HSYK to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, to the Ministry of Forestry, to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, everywhere, more and more concerned about the future of 76 million, not the future of a group. Today, in fact, Turkey is experiencing its pains and will continue to live on. Dear friends, the ecological issue is a system issue. In this sense -- looking at all these processes -- the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is actually doing politics in terms of redecorating cities, how to get a run from these places, cities. Notice that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization is the most fundamental thing about urban transformation projects. With urban transformation projects, re-organising the city, redesigning the city. Dear friends, look, we can make cities better, we can make them a place where people can live humanly, social, economic, culturally, more comfortable, right, but in spite of the public, you can't do that in spite of the people who live there. When you look at all AKP's policies, all policies have been developed despite the public. Community engineering was done at the centre, projects were developed at the centre, which was imposed on the public. Look, in all urban transformation projects, despite the public, there's been an urban transformation, and the public doesn't know about it. The public was only aware of it when municipal officials came to tear down their homes, and it is clear that they are facing serious social opposition in this regard. The main problem here is that when we call it participation or participation by the AKP government, each time, we have developed these projects with approaches that would not object to these policies, not to its own, or to its own environment. Notice that the budget is similar in preparation. The AKP government does not make a participating budget. However, when preparing the budget, how this budget is being used, how it is being used, is it really being used, is it not being used, is it not being used, is there a budget for social gender-sensitive, how much women, young and old actually benefit from this budget; again, there is no study on how the environment is being damaged, how it is being implemented when the budget policies are being implemented. Notice, dear friends, this matter of ecology is not just a matter of environment, it's not a matter of environmental sensitivity. This matter of ecology is life itself, it's a political issue, you have to look at it from here. Capitalism, in particular, has raised other problems with industrialisation in the 16th century. So even though over-profit greed, industrialization, is considered a positive assessment, humanity has faced other problems that industrialism has brought to light, and this is environmental disaster. The main reason that one of the world's fundamental agendas today is climate change, again, is because environmental problems, ecological problems, are so high-profile. With industrialism policies, people will no longer have a real nature or environment to live on. Therefore, all international forces are claiming that capitalists themselves are a habitable environment. Look, Turkey has signed many international contracts. In the European Union process -- we said from this bench yesterday -- the most basic criteria are the environmental criteria, the environmental headgear, and Turkey has obligations in this regard. But unfortunately, it doesn't, so there are serious problems. So let's say that the AKP government, let's say, from its environmental impact assessment approach, has no assessment of what it's actually doing in society, what it's doing in society, what it's doing in life, how much it's doing to the environment. Dear friends, this is what's causing disaster. Not everyone accepts that. There's a very serious public opposition on this issue. Look, there are very serious objections from such policies in places as Seipeli, Yalova, Çanakkale, Bursa, Manisa, İzmir, Aydın, Uğur, Burdur, Muğla, Antalya, Mersin, Karaman, Erzincan, Kayseri, Şırnak, Van, Hatay, Adana, Mardin, Batman. Some bring up these objections for thermal power plants, some bring up these objections for HESEs, some voice these objections for the preservation of streams, others bring up all this because of mines -- or gold-seeking policies. The power has to take that into account. It's as if it's always been an opposition to him... as the ministers have always expressed here... the opposition doesn't want us to do anything, it doesn't want us to serve the people. You have to do what you do with respect for human life. Are you really defending a human life? Then you'll do things that will affect everyone's lives positively. Dear friends, look, this power, for example, is very insistent on nuclear issues. In fact, Mr. Davutoglu says that we're going to build 100 percent of nuclear plants that are our own production, whereas nuclear plants are seriously life-threatening practices. Today, we are dealing with an issue that concerns all the branches of science and all the interests of society, despite the expected price hikes, the need for fully-dependent fuel support, the struggle to protect in the state of war, the destruction of radiation waste, the removal of economic life-end power plants, and the cost of all of that, from the technology and choice of land, from the normal working conditions and the impacts of health and environment in the event of the accident. Look, notice, in fact, after the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant accident in Japan, you know the whole world gave up nuclear energy on this issue, and even then Japan shut down 52 of 54 nuclear plants. Again, Germany is developing a policy to shut down its nuclear plants by 2020. Five reactors will be shut down by 2034. Belgium is still completely destroying the nuclear programme between 2016 and 25, while Turkey insists on nuclear construction, and in fact, we will make 100 percent of our own nuclear weapons on this issue. Instead, he insists that people should be opposed to an application that seriously endangers their lives, or that all measures should be taken in this regard. This is a serious problem, dear friends, so here's what the AKP government says: So, what are we going to do? We're not going to build a thermal plant, we're not going to make nuclear power, we're not going to use all of this, what are we going to do? You can discuss all of this by bringing people working in this area, civil society organizations, people themselves. This is a serious problem, dear friends, and we'd like to underline them. It's not just a political issue that we're opposed to this nuclear in that way, it's not just about destroying the AKP's government, it's against these policies today to make sure our future doesn't wear down. We insist that our right to live, our health rights are not taken away from us, and I would like to stress that we are not only opposed by the HDP (HDP), but that there are, in fact, very serious segments, social groups, too. Dear lawmakers, there's a very good job done by the AKP government, which is actually construction. I've made a definition before, that the AKP is back at its construction party, and it's even a contractor, so today there's an institution called the Prime Ministerate. THIS TOKI is, in fact, a lot of indication of what kind of perspective the AKP is doing. They've already eliminated this competition in the name of urban transformation everywhere, using all the resources of the state themselves. Here's the rush of publicisation -- we talked about yesterday -- in the time of the war, friends, I'd like to point out that before World War II, Turkey was removed in 1939 due to the possibility of going to war. Then I'd like to inform the Council of Ministers... It has been considered a seizure of the premises needed for the grounds of national defence, but the AKP has now made this extraordinary war situation rule a normal one. Now it's everywhere for its own Rantfields; here it is, where it's going to build HES, where it's going to build rivers, where it's going to build urban transformations, whether there's a social objection or whether it's taking over society's things without even asking the public. This is a very serious problem. So we want to emphasize that we're dealing with something similar in urban transformation projects. Yet, even the TOKI (TİKI) must be evaluated now: Is it really profitable or does it not bring harm? WHAT does the AKP's government say about the information that the Turkish government has lost this $774m? I mean, in this regard, as of 2003, the TOKI are in line with these targets... And then there's this: of course, the people he deals with in return, but then there are very serious problems because he doesn't do what he needs to do. In this regard, dear friends, according to the report of the Construction Control Board, which stated that in 2003 the TOKI was at 30 per cent of its own gross, 3 tenders were damaged in 2004 as a result of 4 tenders. Again, there are serious problems with the tenders. The tenders are being given, but the scope is unclear. What's it based on? There's really no transparency, no equal treatment. While some projects are being conducted, the situation is not clear. There is no accounting of the cost and no information on how to determine the price and the value for about the cost. So, as a result, this TOKI is being seized, where the living spaces of the poor, the laborers, the lower ones are actually being pushed out of the city, for reasons that it will do business for subgroups, for so-called poor people, for the purposes of the TOKI projects. It's also a class matter. The AKP is pushing the rest of the community out of cities and condemning the poor, the workers, the Kurds, the Roma, the rest of the community to become richer, to provide them with better living conditions. While there are people in this country who are condemned to live on the street, or still have thousands or millions of homeless, the AKP government is able to give themselves to the rich through this TOKI... naturally, whatever class you represent, I don't see a problem with that; the AKP government is the representative of the rich, the elite class. That's why he keeps saying we're the 17th place in the world in the economy. That's why they only have relationships with rich people and these investors. However, because he has no relationship with the poor of this country, with those who really need a piece of bread, he considers them in a perspective that connects him under the name "social aid." These are serious problems, dear friends. We'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a few questions from here. I mean, this problem that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has created is seriously serious, environmental crises, so that's the kind of management that upsets the ecological balance, when we're facing serious environmental problems, how is it going to take care of that? The question is not on the agenda. But, when you look at all their policies, we're actually environmentally friendly, we're working on it, we're participating in international agreements, climate change conferences, we've signed Kyoto Protocol. But there are no steps to be taken about it. So, Turkey is one of the most growing countries in carbon emissions, and no measures are being taken. Dear friends, for example, there is still construction in the nuclear plant area of Mersin Akkuyu, but the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs says that this is not a construction of the nuclear plant. He says it's a search for the man, a search for the man. In Mersin, which mine is wanted, why this construction continues, and he has to ask the question. Again, there are allegations that Akkuyu has a CED immunity agreement and that this agreement has been withheld from the public. Are these allegations true? Besides, in Turkey, the CED is given to private companies if you pay attention. In fact, companies should fit in with CED, environmental impact assessment, but environmental impact assessment is being adapted to companies, causing serious environmental destruction. Again -- what I just said -- we're going to build 100 percent local power plants on the nuclear plant. The question of how can the government take such a risk when there have been accidents that have killed dozens of workers in Ermenek, in Soma, and it is responsible for inspection and licensing? Again, how did the radioactive material, which was banned from Turkey in İzmir Gaziemir, come from fuel rods used in nuclear power plants, enter Turkey, and how did it get in? The public needs to know about this. Again, he must receive a positive report on environmental impact assessments of all dams or power plants. But the inevitable will be with the public's participation. At first, we stated, how can we trust environmental impact assessment reports without public participation? What is the government's policy in this matter to really join the public? Many HES or urban transformation projects continue despite the decision given by administrative courts to stop the execution. This is a very serious problem, dear friends, and if you'll pay attention, it doesn't even apply to the law. We stated on this bench yesterday, so despite the decision to stop the execution, the HES productions continue, even though they have failed to carry out the necessary legal responsibility. Let's stress that this is becoming a very serious problem. Again, the Office of Climate Change has been shut down. In Turkey, when climate change is such an important issue in the world, why is this being eliminated? This is a very serious problem. Again, dear friends, we've always expressed that we have very serious objections and criticism of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. If you even look at Istanbul, we have highlighted the third bridge in Istanbul, the third airport, and again the urban transformation projects, how it actually affects the life of mankind, what a negative approach there is. So here's a suggestion to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism: Do these urban transformation projects with the public, not the public. It's really not just a matter of ecology. In fact, my dear friends, the fact that social opposition is so leading, the reason why it's so political is because our next perspective is an ecological perspective, so the ecological issue can't be handled apart from social problems. Ecology itself is the main cause of social problems today. Notice, the beginning of the resistance of the Travel Resistance, the resistance of the villagers in the region, the resistance against the HESESTs is a resistance to the ecological struggle. From here, you have to understand how serious the situation is. Dear MPs, I'd like to make a few statements regarding the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate. In fact, this Tapu Kadastro General Directorate created a new runt area in Law 3402 in 2005, causing companies to profit on astronomical prices. This is an interesting situation. For example, a company buys this thing and passes it off to someone else for half the price. In fact, well, the first company gets a lot of money when it can cost a third, and that's a very serious problem. However, if the profit here is given to the Kadastro General Directorate, there will be much better jobs to be done here. This is a serious problem. The second problem area is not considered in terms of the property cadastro, especially in Kurdistan, or, let's say, more... after all, Turkey is a multi-identified multicultural structure. In many areas of Thrace, cadastro operations are performed without consideration of its sociocultural, economic dimensions. For example, in the matter of Classim, my class was massacred, things were altered, followed by forced migration in Kurdistan in the 90s, villages were evacuated, people were displaced from their homes. Now, let's say, once we have the deed thing about this, the owners have three fundamental things -- one, in this period of time -- those who used to live in this geography demand rights, those who had to emigrate in the 90s because of the war demand rights, 20 years demanding rights on property. All three of them are the right demands, but there's no real problem with that, because the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate is also very disorganized. Here are seven ministries, but seven ministries make separate decisions. Here's the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism making separate decisions, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs making separate decisions, the National Defense separate, the Internal Affairs separate. However, these should be considered according to the autonomy of the Tapu Kadastro, all of this from a common perspective, and according to social characteristics, sociocultural, economic, religious, cultural values. As long as this doesn't happen, there's going to be a serious problem in Turkey, so it's a serious problem for the government not to think about society while thinking about its own thing, dear friends. In that sense, it is our duty, of course, to oppose, to express our own views on this stand. It's something else, considering how much it's taken care of. In fact, during budget preparation, only the public hears about our opposition, but we want to stress that these objections are important. As I finish, dear friends, I'd like to draw the bottom of this once again: those who fight ecology want this country to live in a better future. They're not against investments in this country, they want people in this country to live in better conditions, but they want to live in a sustainable environment, where their future is really ecologically their own. Nature's right is a fundamental right, and they want it secured. When you build houses, when you make urban transformations, when you do HES, you first protect nature's rights. You will not make a new sanction without guaranteeing the rights of nature. It says that it is a very human and righteous demand, and it must be evaluated correctly. Otherwise, all irregularities, which are not subject to supervision, which is not transparent -- in fact today's fundamental problem of Turkey's problem -- make it a law that makes it an uninhabitable country; we think Turkey does not deserve it. If we want a Turkey without corruption, without killings, without persecution, we're going to democratize first, we're going to make a right law first, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0003par0378	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Ayhan. Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0004par0383	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party and my group on the budget of the National Ministry of Education of 2015. Before we begin, I salute you and the people who are watching us on the screens. First of all, I would like to share with you the opinion and opinion of the party about the children who were murdered in Peshawar, Pakistan, a few days ago by the Taliban attack. For the benefit of the sovereigns, this massacre is a massacre in Pakistan, Syria, Kurdistan, Rojava, Shengal, and many other places. I share the pain of our children who died in this massacre, especially our condolences to the people of Pakistan. Other than that, I'd like to share with you the fact that our party has always had a certain, clear attitude towards these and so on, and that it has this attitude today, and I would like to offer my condolences to all the people of Pakistan. The two basic requirements they prioritize in determining and implementing the education policies of capitalist nations are the basis of capital and government-dominated ideology. This is basically a process of education in capitalist nation states such as Turkey, of developing the manpower that capital needs, and of ideologically molding society. The educational system operates as a means of elimination and dissolution while developing manpower in what capital needs. It is determined according to the student's socioeconomic class, ideological position, language, identity, belief, gender and sexual orientation. Central trials, interviews, routes in the education process reveal conditions to meet that exact goal. Almost all of the rich children will bring them high income in the future, and when they receive an education that will provide them, poor children are either unable to go to school or those who go to school with a thousand difficulty are directed to vocational schools, imam-hakims and vocational universities. So as a whole, when rich children make their own choices, these ideological and political preferences are directed to schools where they can be in the future, and the children of the poor are forced to face fewer possibilities, more difficult conditions, as a fate. This system of education is essentially deepening and increasing these inequalitys day by day, where it can eliminate existing inequality in society. So up until now, the existing applications in the educational system have increased and increased these inequalitys rather than reduced them. The second thing I want to focus on here is that the rulers will consider education as a process of transferring their political and ideological perspectives to the entire community and to the future. In other words, political authorities treat education as a process of shaping society, mediating and constantly interfering. On this basis, every government goes to arrangements that will allow children, young people, the whole community to think as they do, to believe as they do. Instead of a thinking, interrogating society, everything about education is centralized, whether it's hungry or thirsty, whether it's subjected to labour exploitation, police violence every day, or to create a society that will give thanks. Those who don't think, believe, and don't live as they do, discipline, digest, encode, alter, and eliminate those who don't. Precious friends, monotheist, capitalist, national state-based Turkey have been a constant intervention in this basic education. Throughout the history of the Republic, the educational system has been tried to develop education, to develop education through policies based on ideology such as Kemalism, Turkish-Islam Synthesis, Turanism, Neoosmanism and such. Today, the AKP government, a representative of Neoosmanism, has been increasingly involved in structural interference with the educational system, curriculum, administration, with ideological merits in recent years. It is important to say that the educational system that the AKP has structurally converted has already been crushed, deprived of scientific and democratic values under all ideological interference in the history of the republic. In the education system, with all the peoples' languages and cultures, including Kurds, all religious and religious beliefs, except for the Hanini Hanefi sect, all gender identities have been ignored, banned, and suppressed. In this sense, the field of education has been involved in numerous practices of inequality and discrimination. In the AKP's ruling period, as this picture in education has not been corrected, it is clear that problems, inequality and discrimination will deepen with recent ideological interventions. I want to make it very clear from here that the intervention of the AKP's power towards education is as ideological as it was before, and there is absolutely no liberal approach here. The change and intervention of AKP power using concepts such as democracy, freedom and rights is an effort to legitimize and conceal self-conservativeism on the basis of Neosmanism in education, far from the universal meanings these concepts carry. Dear friends, AKP ruling education does not consider partnership, sharing and liberalisation as a process, according to it, it is not a process of dealing with social inequality and discrimination. For them, teachers, students, guardians, thinkers, thinkers, and workers have no value to unions. What the ministry wants is for us to make decisions in the hegemony of fellow unions, executives, bureaucrats, under the name of participation, and to make them believe how democratic they are. We see that the 2015 education budget is prepared with an understanding that none of the educational components have been considered a copy of the previous budgets. This budget is also prepared by ignoring the basic needs of the educational system, only by considering mandatory expenditures and Rant areas to be opened to capital. It is evident that the statement of the ruling spokesman for the increased education budget and the lion's share is a statistical lie. Given that nearly half the total number of public employees are in the Ministry of Education, it will also be seen as the Ministry of Education, one of the ministry's highest share in the budget. With 17 million students and the number of institutions approaching 100,000, there are already mandatory expenditures for about 90 per cent of the education budget. Therefore, the nominal size of the Ministry of Education's budget alone has no meaning. The main indicators are the national rate of the education budget, average spending per student, interest in investments, and public education expenses. Minister, the rate of the 2015 education budget for national income is 3.24 per cent. This number is the same as the previous year, and an increase is not really an issue. This is a rate that is far behind OECD countries. In OECD countries, the education budget averages about 6 per cent per cent of the national income. It's almost twice as much as your Ministry's share of education. Again, according to Turkey's 2015 education budget, the average budget per student -- including higher education -- is around 3,600 TL. In OECD countries, that averages $8,500. Turkey is the country that has the least resources per student in the OECD countries. On the other hand, the denominator for investments in the educational budget, which is the most important in terms of the quality of education, appears to be a significant decline compared to 2002. In 2002, the share for investments was reduced to 17%, while in 2014, it was cut by half to 9 percent. Since the education ministry budget is far from meeting the basic needs of the education system, families are making serious spending from their own pockets to cover this gap. For example, according to the study of EDIM-SEN, families spend an average of 720 euros a year for a student in Turkey in 2002-2003, while the spending has increased by 5 times in 2013-2014 education year to 3.602 TL. Dear friends, because the Ministry of Education does not have enough resources for public education, socioeconomic inequality in society is reflected directly in education and serious imbalances arise between schools. The difference between 20 per cent and the poorest 20 per cent in Turkey in terms of education spending has been 14 times higher. This quality differs directly from student achievements and acts as a class separation. Schools in upper socioeconomic regions are high compared to higher education, secondary education, higher education, average success in central exams, and prestigious school and department winning rates, compared to schools in lower socioeconomic regions. The main reason for this is that public schools are provided for by parents and the state treats public schools -- especially in poor neighborhoods -- as stepchildren. On the other hand, one of the main challenges in education is that no doubt education workers are forced to live below the poverty line. In the past 12 years, the wages of education and science workers may seem to have increased in numbers, but they are far from human level. Two thirds of the education workers were forced to do additional work in order to maintain a life worthy of human dignity, especially the teacher's ability to buy has been significantly diminished. As of November 2014, the family allowance of 164 TL is 2.082 TL. A teacher's salary is 2.422. This number is well below $3,002, which is the poverty limit of a family of four in Turkey, and is well below $3,990 according to educational unions. Mr. Secretary, the shop is yours to answer the questions addressed to him in front of this painting. Not to mention palaces, TOMA, gas flares, security expenses, opening the store's vault to the end, Mr. Secretary brings water from thousands of streams, such as Erdal, the grocery store, when the teachers receive a human salary. Dear friends, where AKP governments develop educational policies will solve problems, they create new problems each year and new inequalitys, victims, as well as problems. The removal of tens of thousands of education administrators over the past year and the failure of tens of millions of students to participate in political staffing, system change in TEOG (TEOG) and the introduction of automatic records to vocational upper secondary schools, especially imam-hatips, which should be spent on public education, the private transfer of resources to the educational institutions, the use of Syrian, Iraqi and Kurdistann students to their education rights, and the ability of tens of thousands of other teachers to be subjected to discrimination in co-existentures, are not enough to appoint a new number of teachers to be subjected to the same degree, especially by three years of insuranceed employment. At the same time, the Ministry of Education has numerous problems from the problems of students from education workers to the problems of education, from basic language education to democratic, secular and scientific education, from curriculum to physical conditions of schools, from inequality in education to monogamous, sexist state rhetoric. The AKP's government, which plans to obligatory Ottoman education, has the right to education in the main language of the peoples in Turkey, which we know by heart, by heart, embraces the formal speech and ignores education in the native language. The right to education in the main language, which is considered a fundamental right in international texts today, in many countries of the world, is still rejected in Turkey, on grounds of monotheistic state mentality, phobia of division, nationalism and racism that lead to fascism. As a result of this still-dominated approach in Turkey, they have been exposed to denial and assimilation policies throughout the history of the Republic, especially in Kurdish, in Georgian, Turkish, English, Lazca, Pontus, Syrianica, Abazazaca, Armenian, Greek, Arabic, Chechence, Acemce, Mıhallemice, Podakça. The AKP's ruling, which ignores basic human right to education in the native language, is trying to divert it from the deception of the public's demand to be given in the main language, or a few hours in private school. The demand of all the peoples in Turkey, especially the Kurdish people, is education in the native language. On this basis, our concrete argument is a multilingual education model based on the mother tongue. So we're not just defending language education for Kurds, but for all the peoples, for all the languages I've just ranked, and for the people who use it. The basic language of education, respect of their native language, and multilingualization of society certainly strengthen social and political integration. Due to the disadvantages caused by the exclusion of the native languages, it eliminates inequalities in education, enhances student achievement, creates a society that understands one another better socially, culturally and mentally, consolidating internal peace. The fact that you have ignored the demands of the people is no longer valid in today's day for you to ignore any of these facts, which I've considered to be true with countless scientific studies. At this point, the Kurdish people have no patience. While the demand for education in the native language is being brought up in a very strong, very serious way, I would like to share with you that our people's patience has run out at the point that these people's demands are no longer met. If the Kurdish people's right to education continues to be ignored at the point where you are arriving, the Kurds will continue to open their own schools and build their own educational institutions in the following years, as they did this year. This righteous and legitimate march cannot be prevented by police violence, bans, and common judgment. Dear friends, one of the main problems of the educational system is, of course, the transfer of public resources to the private sector on the basis of neoliberal policies, commercialisation of education and the opening of the market. Throughout its twelve-year mandate, the AKP has permanently transformed education with both functional and organisational-based management logic. It is the result of this logic that students are directed to private schools, to transfer public resources to private schools, to public transports to capital. Mr. President, recent intervention and improvements in AKP's educational system through its own political perception of Islam. The AKP's intervention in education through its own religious perception is a manifestation of an ideological strategy. The ideological strategy underlying these changes in the field of education is that Bilal Erdogan, the son of the President, told the authorities of the National National Education Directorate in İstanbul, not to increase the number of imams, but to turn all schools into imams. As I said at the beginning of my speech, all these changes and discussions for education are ideological interference. The codification of the conservative society in the mind of political power and the creation of this conservative society are a reflection of its own political, ideological policies in practice. The increase in the number of religious content and religious-related courses in education and the prevalence of its education to pre-school education are coded as a political achievement, while pedagogical and social problems arise. There is no way that religious education based on the Hanni Dynasty can be accepted in a country where millions of Alevi, non-Muslims, or citizens do not take any religious doctrine at the center of their lives. This is discrimination by the hand of the state and by force. As the universal legal document states, this is a violation of the right of each family to educate its own child on the values it believes in. In addition, it is a violation of the right of education to be forced into a religious culture class, which is clearly stated in a decision by the ECHR. We would like to warn you now about the decision taken at the 19th National Education Centre to make religious education mandatory for children from the age of 3. We are deeply concerned by your conservative code to implement the advice decision taken. Aside from the social and legal handicaps of this decision, we want to talk about the pedagogic defects. It's a scientific fact that a lecture on concrete thinking will be enforced, that fear and dogmatic thought will dominate, that critical and creative thinking will be interrupted. What is really to be discussed here is the fact that a pre-school education, in accordance with scientific and pedagogical criteria, is excluded from abstract, national, religious values, enriched by concrete activities that will contribute to the child's cognitive and physical development. We'd like to ask the public a question: In the official article sent by Osmaniye Province's Military National Education Directorate on how to teach values in kindergartens, the student's start with salutations, the introduction of prayers and sures with tecvitisation -- the child's spelling the word, he will turn to the left, he will spank his hands, he will return to the front and the front -- who will bring the student's motivation with more vocal questions? Mr. Secretary, does this practice by the Kadirli District National Education Directorate include the knowledge of your Ministry? Do you find it right that this practice is mandatory for students at all pre-school institutes? Is that exactly what you mean by education in education? Dear friends, the other aspect of the conservativeisation of education through the religious perception of AKP power is political staffing in education. In the AKP's ruling period, Education Institution Directors Administrators Admissions and Replacement Regulations have been changed countless times, and the last legislation adopted last spring and tens of thousands of executives in the MEB have been terminated overnight and the educational environment has been reduced to total chaos. Considering that the governors often act as the AKP's officers, you can imagine the picture in practice. In the end, it turns out that the lists of the governors' appointees were drawn up in union branches near the government. I also regret to share with the public the fact that we are facing a Minister of Education who recognizes that more than 80 per cent of education executives are from Education-BIR-SEN. Dear friends, no doubt one of the biggest problems of the educational system is one of its bleeding wounds, teachers who are not appointed. The AKP's government is watching it grow year after year, where it will solve this problem, which has caused enough trauma to cause suicides. Mr. Erdogan said in a rally in Istanbul, just before he came to power in 2002, that when they were in power, all the candidates of the teacher would take office without a test the day after they completed their training. In the days when he made these promises to the public, the number of teachers who were not appointed in 2002 increased by over 70,000 teachers, and today more than 300,000. Today, according to the Ministry's statement, more than 120,000 teachers are needed. Instead of carrying out these appointments, the MEB strives to satisfy this need with the cheap, flexible, and unsecured paid teacher formula. In doing so, he ignores the difficulties he has experienced in covering his ears to the cries of hundreds of thousands of unassigned teachers. Our urgent request is that this problem be resolved immediately, especially immediately, with the appointment of teachers who have not been appointed, including their Kurdish teachers, and that the appointment be made immediately. Dear friends, one of the things that is invisible and invisible in education is the problems of minority schools. The systematic pressure on minority schools is increasing day by day. An important part of the problems of minority schools struggling with political and social pressures is economic. Minority schools, which have no budget from the central education budget, are abandoned to their own destinies. Minority schools are able to survive with a great deal of difficulty, with budgets and limited donations from student parents that the foundations can spare. This year, minority schools will also benefit from paying private schools per student. This practice is both incomplete and wrong. Apart from Jewish schools, other minority schools are public institutions, so their resources must be covered in the same way as other public schools. Under the principle of equality, the Ministry of Education must make arrangements on this matter urgently. This will also show the value and equality of the Education Ministry's approach to minorities, to different beliefs. Another issue to focus on is the situation of refugee children and young people from Shengal, Kobani, Rojava, Iraq and Syria. Without a doubt, children are the greatest victims of war. According to UN data, about 35 per cent of refugees who come to Turkey are children in the age of mandatory education. What are the studies conducted by the Ministry of Education for the education of these children? What is the reason for the Ministry of Education to teach refugee children in some of the public schools, as opposed to the Ministry of Education? What is being done for education, especially for children who are out of camps and who are in the hundreds of thousands? Why is the study of Sunni Arab children in camps not shown for the education of Kurds, Suryans, Ezidis, Christians outside the camps? Why is Arabic education not provided in educational institutions, but in Kurdish or other languages? I want these questions answered by Mr. Secretary, shared with the General Assembly. Dear friends, last but not least, I'd like to list our demands on the immediate problems of the Ministry of Education. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Everyone should be granted equal and free education, sufficient budget for education, as much funding for schools as they need.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0005par0420	It's over, sir. Your time is up. Thank you, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0004par0422	I thank you, too. I was actually going to mention Kobani, my friends...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0006par0424	It wasn't a half hour, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0007par0425	They're coming to Kobani, don't worry.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0004par0426	I mean, I want to say, of course, from the day the attacks began in Kobani, I was in Suruç, I was there from September 15th, I was there for ninety-five days, and I came from there yesterday. It's a really big disaster, it's a huge drama, and before the Kurd, the Turk, realizes it, everyone needs to extend their hand to get rid of this drama.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0008par0427	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0004par0428	So, I'll tell you this, and I'll tell you this: really, what is being defended in Kobani is the values of humanity, and this is the scourge of ISIS, the enemy of all mankind. We expect everyone to have this resistance against this enemy, which the Kurdish people have done in Kobani, and we expect the help and contributions of our people from Kobani to do so by hand, without reducing them, without reducing them. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0008par0431	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Mardin MP Erol Dora... Here you go, Mr. Dora. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0009par0436	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the budget of universities in 2015. I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers have been carried out by an understanding of sudden and rapid changes in the higher education system, without meeting university professors and infrastructure requirements, and that the expected scientific activity and quality goals from the university are being pushed back into the background. In 2002, the total number of universities was 76. The total number of universities is 175 universities - 104 states today, 71 foundation universities. However, it is an important handicap that the quality of universities constantly declines in the face of increasing quantity. Dear lawmakers, according to the reports of the education system, the number of students studying in the second course has been 14 per cent for 2002, and this rate has not changed as of 2013. Despite its rhetoric, 4.5 million college students study with students in the second course with nearly 3 million of them. The process of commercialisation in universities continues to increase. Dear lawmakers, considering the higher education system as a whole, the fact that the system has created a variety of financial resources for itself in addition to tuition shows that universities are being driven for profit. For example, there are 79 preliminary licenses and 29 licensing programmes within the remote educational system for 2012-2013. The distanceless master's fee ranges from 4,000 to $20,000. Again, at the same time, about 100,000 students are registered in unresolved master's programmes. Dear lawmakers, the control mechanism at universities is an important problem. The SEC, YDK, OSCE and the rectors are a serious monitoring institution. The way of quality education, critical thinking and creative research is not through standardisation and external control, but through democratic participation and public supervision. In this context, universities should have autonomous structures. The goal of academic autonomy is that universities can be different from others in accordance with their strategic plans. Thus, the democratic method is to identify education programmes, research and study policies with the university's own democratic boards and components. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the problems of higher education is the housing of poor students. The housing issue is a major problem enough to make you decide whether to go to college or not. Housing services are provided in the form of state dorms, university dorms, private dorms, rental homes. In this regard, it is clear that housing has become a whole business issue. Some universities view housing as an all-income activity, while high-paying university dorms are being offered to those who have money again. In large cities, private homes demand prices starting at 600 lira per month, only housing costs around 7,000 lira per year. Dear lawmakers, all university workers are asked to be sentenced to flexible and unsecured working methods from faculty to staff. In 2002, the number of students and professors with contracts and student fees was around 5,000, while the figure reached 13,000 in 2011. In particular, under subcontractorization of services such as cleaning, security, dining halls, and dorms, unsecured and flexible employment has become the basic form of employment. The unionisation rate among employees of public higher education institutions is very low. In the foundation's higher education institutions, the smallest unionisation initiative has resulted in the dismissal of administrations. Dear lawmakers, the vagueness of the job descriptions of researchers often results in forced labour. Besides, academic advancements have become status quo, a hierarchical order. The most obvious example of this is the process of receiving the title of professorship. The Interuniversity Board's professorship application and jury creation system does not function well. The assistant professor, professor and professors have individual applications and injustices are increasing. Mr. President, the State of the Union has placed the police at the university, threatening the freedom of expression of university components, academic and scientific freedoms, organisational rights and rights to live. In addition, today's latest regulations, preventive detention, provide extraordinary powers, such as reasonable doubt, are an example of the situation in Turkey, where hundreds of years of history have brought down universities that should have been considered cultural heritage. In particular, students at Kars Kafkas University have been indicted for their march and press statements, sentenced to seven to eight years. Other remaining students are being investigated daily and pressured by students. Especially since colleges have places where freedom of thought and freedom of expression should be effective, it is absolutely impossible for us to accept such practices. Dear lawmakers, the current university disciplinary regulations have nothing in common with the free and democratic university. These disciplinary regulations must be removed immediately, and the principles of common life must be implemented by all university components instead. Dear lawmakers, the main goal of financial autonomy, administrative autonomy at the university is to preserve and develop academic autonomy, academic freedom, but if freedom of expression in a country's political system is not institutionalized, academic autonomy, academic freedoms remain at a superficial level of rhetoric. In this framework, we have seen evidence that as part of the corruption operations carried out last month within Mardin University of Artuklu, the Vice President and Director of the Living Language Institute, Professor Doctor Mr. Kadir Yıldırım, tried to make it look like he was involved in these dirty relations and wanted to be discredited. We know that this initiative is an oversight the system wants to give to scientists who don't think like it. In 2013, when President Erdogan visited Mardin, where he was Prime Minister, what was done in the Kurdistan Department of Artuklu University was a revolution in itself. The assessment, of course, reflected an important and positive view. Besides, there is a sense of hope in society that the Kurdish students who have graduated from these chapters will be assigned to their duties as soon as possible to increase the scientific efforts of this country for different languages and dialects spoken by the peoples, while such dirty conspiracy attempts are alarming in the name of democracy and freedom of expression and especially for universities and scientific activity. The other issue I want to address at this point is Kurdish teachers whose appointment cannot be completed. Only 18 of the 1,500 teachers in such departments have been assigned. I call upon Mr. Minister of National Education to be more sensitive about this. Precious lawmakers have taken universities into the influence of the free market in Turkey as well as neoliberal economic policies in many countries and locked the university to the goal of producing information and elements that the market and global capital need. A university with its ears closed to social problems, and a scientist's typology is unacceptable. Universitys and scientists have an important role in implementing universal knowledge in the context of social benefits, but many of the universities and scientists in Turkey have been unable to play this role. This official view, where there is so much pressure on the life of science, is a subject that is surprising and also deserves serious criticism about freedom of expression by universities. Dear lawmakers, the relations of universities with social issues must go beyond the collegiate-industrial co-operation, and, in addition to the public, it must be covered by local governments, labour unions and civil society organisations. In Turkey, universities should also be redesigned to human, community, and nature, transform into autonomous structures, and be made a productive member of the world's science family along with their professors and students. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again and pay respects.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0010par0452	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The first speaker on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group is İstanbul MP Oktay Saral. In this episode, all our speakers are five minutes apart. Here you are, Mr. Saral.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0011par0457	My dear President, my dear fellow lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I, too, condemn yesterday's unfortunate incident in Pakistan with the curse of the massacres and atrocities of 146 children, in the result of a massacre, with a severe, hatred. We expect that the demons, who have fallen under the guise of religion, will quickly disappear and that the countries suffering from terrorism will now come together and make an effort to resolve this problem. My dear friends, I have made a promise on behalf of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. In our world, in our vision of civilization, we are people who, when you look at it, the city and the people who build each other, the mirrors of each other; when you look at them, the people who build the city, the people who create the people, the people who create the city, a blessed civilization, a sense of urbanism. When you look at it, it's really made of earth, but when you look at it, you can only see its body; when you look at it in the eye of the heart, you can see its spirit, its soul. Of course, when you look at the city with the same feeling and thought, maybe you'll see the earth, maybe the stone, maybe you'll see the concrete, but that city has a soul, and with that spirit, the idea of urbanism in our ancient civilization has come to this day with all the great values that we've raised like the architect Sinan. Sultan Mehmet Hüner of Jahan Padishah is a city to build a city, a heart to the truth." That's what he said. So, we are members of a civilization that has these heart architects, these conquests of the heart. We thank our precious elders, who have brought these beautiful cities to us, especially the architect Sinan, and we thank them for our precious service, and we cherish them. But we don't just need an Architect Sinan, we need dozens, hundreds, maybe thousands of architects Sinan. When we look at our understanding of urbanism today, we see a Turgut Canever.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0012par0462	I've got 16/9, Congressman, I've got oliveburn 16/9.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0011par0463	We need, again, not just a Turtle Cansever, but a dozen, hundreds of Turtle Cansevers. Yes, my dear friends, as Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, for 12 years, we have actually shown serious breakthroughs and zeal at the point of urbanism as the EC PARTY power. Since 1950, our cities, especially Ankara, Istanbul and İzmir, had been defunctly built in a busy slum, and unfortunately -- we don't want to blame anyone at this point, but there was a thought in Turkey. In this regard, no one was in power or force to bring our cities back to the point of ancient civilization urbanism, until at the slum, especially with the Public Housing Authority and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, for 12 years, this squatty building was entered into a very dense structure, perhaps, but the poor fair had a structure, a home, and the strange guru had a home. Of course, what we're going to do from now on is we're going to have to deal with these ugly structures, which are unsanitary, unsanitary, non-constructive, infrastructure, and especially with the ecological balance, which we're going to have to look at, and we're going to have the most important breakthroughs that our Ministry of Environment and Urbanization has financed in this regard. From now on, hopefully, we will continue our journey in a sense of good urbanism, in a way that will set an example for us in Europe, in a way that will bring shame to those who make this history, the people who build these historic civilizations. I salute you all again with such feelings and thoughts, with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0013par0468	Thank you, Mr. Saral. Izmir MP Aydın Şengül. Here you go, Mr. Şengül.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0014par0472	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to share with you today a few insights about urban transformation, especially on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. As you all know, with urbanization in Turkey, rapid squatting, especially in our major cities, around our cities, there were serious illegal constructions that we could call large slums and cancerous tissues, blocking the city's exit points, preventing it from breathing. One of the most important tasks of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is to work together with local governments to create sustainable cities, to create the infrastructure of healthy cities. In connection with these, there was a Urban Transmutation Bill that had previously been adopted according to Article 733 of City Law No. 5393. Law 6306 has been adopted and accelerated to speed up this transformation, and this is a very important opportunity in the future, if we can actually use it in a good way. Let's not build new, healthier and multi-story slums again while we do this urban transformation. The slums are healthier when transforming warped construction... rapidly increasing density in urban centers, without further increasing in urban transformation, perhaps those densitys...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0015par0475	They make five precedents, five precedents.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0014par0476	I'm a city planner.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0015par0477	They build five precedents, 10 precedent buildings, they don't make slums, but...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0014par0478	In my opinion, I think it's best to reduce the density of this transformation and maybe move the density of those city centers out of the city with satellite cities.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0015par0479	You've seen Esenyurt.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0014par0480	In addition, in the process of transforming these cities, there have been serious social difficulties in the slums around them. In places where crime has arisen, moral problems, drugs have increased, income levels are very low, people still live in that village, where they moved to and from the city years ago. And this transformation is actually an opportunity for us. With this transformation, we have to ensure that those people can't live in the city, that they can't be urban, that they have to live in that city, that they have to, that they have to, that they have to, that they have to, that they have to, that they have to, that they have new infrastructure. In addition, with this new transformation, we have to do serious work to restore the identity of that city lost in our cities, the identity of the city to the chaos, and the urban aesthetic. I also think that's what our Ministry is doing in cooperation with local governments, as well as with the historical tissues of that city.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0015par0482	That's not how it works.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0014par0483	Also, let's not destroy this urban transformation by highlighting political rhetoric, especially with its opposition, its power, its local administration, we need to co-operate in this urban transformation.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0015par0484	You're not listening to any of our suggestions, you're not considering any of our suggestions.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0014par0485	In particular, our Ministry wants to run with the Metropolitan Municipality and the municipal municipalities on urban transformation in İzmir, but what we have seen is that the mayor of İzmir Metropolitan has a stand in his own way; I will transform according to Article 5393, according to Article 73, and I will not do it according to the new law. We're looking, there are district municipalities in Izmir, who want to work with the Ministry, we're handing over power to them, we're continuing in cooperation. Here, we have Buca City, we have Menemen City Hall, we have Narlıdere Municipality, but there is a serious pressure on the Metropolitan Municipality; why are you in such cooperation? Now, I think we should put this conflict aside and work together in cooperation in our cities.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0016par0486	What do you think of the Engineers' Law as a city planner?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0014par0487	Besides, as I just said, I believe that in the future, with the work our Ministry has done...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0017par0488	You're looking, but Mr. Secretary isn't here.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0014par0489	...that we will reach those cities we have dreamed of quickly in cooperation with local governments, I salute the House of Honor. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0018par0492	Thank you, Mr. Şengül.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0019par0493	Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0018par0494	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0019par0495	In his speech, the General Assembly has been misinformed by the Republican People's Party's İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, stating that it has blocked the urban transformation process. If you agree, we demand word.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0018par0497	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0019par0498	Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesame will speak.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0020par0499	Give me a minute to fix it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0019par0500	No, don't tease me!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0021par0501	Here you go, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0022par0504	Mr. President, when the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is being discussed, let's co-operate to correct the situation of the cities. The understanding is a beautiful expression, but after this statement, the assessment is not true. The İzmir Metropolitan Municipality says two very concrete things about it. One: Give me the initiative as Ministry to do the city renovations from the City Law, give me my permissions quickly, and I'll walk quickly. Two: Let us cooperate in putting the environment and urban renovation projects in a more accurate line. One of the main problems of İzmir is that the government respects the understanding of İzmir's local governments and doesn't respect the understanding of government in its place.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0023par0508	He's got a cross-eyed eye.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0022par0509	...looking at the light begins with the injustice of the distribution of the property of Izmir. If we're going to look at it as a starting point, we have to look at it as a first step. At this point, it is possible that Izmir, where the government extends its sincere hand in cooperation with the business community, respects the initiative of the local government to govern together and implements the understanding of democratic governance within democratic rules that central administration supports local governance. In that sense, let's rule together. We extend our hand to your understanding, but it's imperative that the government change that understanding. It's essential that the Izmirians expect it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0024par0513	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013 Kayseri MP Pelin Günş Bakır, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0025par0537	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization budget. I salute your high council. Continuing the urban transformation quickly is a necessity for Turkey, a country of earthquakes. According to various earthquake scenarios, an earthquake the size of 7.2 in Istanbul will cause the death of 50,000 of our citizens to lose 150 billion dollars in financial losses. As a result of this awareness, our government has successfully implemented the structure control system in 81 districts that have previously been implemented in 19 provinces. In 2012, the urban transformation gained great momentum by the adoption of the Law on the Transformation of Disaster Risked Areas. As of today, we are continuing the transformation of 600,000 independent units, and we have determined the risk of 161,000 homes. Dear MPs, in 1983 the number of slums in Turkey was 1.5 million. 69% of the population of Ankara, 40 per cent of the population of Istanbul and Izmir lived in slums. The pardon in 1984 caused no infrastructure, no road, no green space, to become a crooked apartment building in the slums. Established in 1984, the TOKI produced 42,000 dwellings by 2002, while building 637,000 dwellings from 2002 to today. 85% of these dwellings are housing for the sub-income group. In those days, our citizens needed immediate housing. Today, the quality of our country's non-national product is no longer quantitative as it increases by more than three floors. In this context, we recently went to four radical changes in our urban transformation philosophy. First, our government speeds up the construction of qualified social housing for the lower and middle income group. What we understand about urban transformation is that it's not luxury websites with pools that have over-existently increased precedents.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0026par0541	But it's being done.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0025par0542	We build these dwellings, not in the center of a swimming pool, but in our civilization, as we've seen examples for centuries, by taking a mosque and its property, a school, a university, into the center of a good plan. We don't build sites that lead to ghettoization anymore, surrounded by walls. We support complex urban transformation projects where the city's poor are not pushed out of the city, where rich, medium and narrow-income citizens live together in a neighborhood culture.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0026par0543	We haven't seen one sample, it's been two years since the law passed.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0025par0544	Urban transformation won't cause social, spatial, class dissolution.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0026par0545	We didn't see a sample.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0025par0546	Now, our government is focused not only on building, but on urban design. Green fields, squares, roads, sports fields, children's parks, with a holistic approach, projects that respect nature. In the ancient cities of Anatolia, we began to build dwellings with local architecture, not one type. For example, in Diyarbakır, the tender was completed, small-storey, well-endowed houses; in Mardin, large balconies, arched dwellings; in Nevşehir, the buildings used in the outer front of the building are houses designed with this philosophy. Finally, we moved from vertical architecture to horizontal architecture in the highlands, especially in the historical urban centers of Anatolia.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0027par0549	No samples, for example.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0025par0550	It is our strategic goal to lead to the spirit root of the people of Asia Minor, to reassert our thousand-year-old civilization.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0027par0551	No examples, no delusions.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0025par0552	The reflection of this civilization in this place is our cities. We don't view urban transformation as building and building as matter, we view urban transformation as the biggest idea and the most important basis for our drinking cause, because cities also shape people.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0027par0553	You didn't give one example.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0025par0554	Turkey, a country of earthquakes, has 6.7 million dwellings that must be converted over the next 20 years. This corresponds to 334,000 homes per year. The importance of the private sector is evident, given that the TOKİ (TİKI) can produce 50,000 dwellings annually. The construction sector provides 7.4% of the employment in our country. The construction industry is the engine industry based on 100 per cent domestic entry, which triggers our industry, so it needs to be sustained and supported. With all these feelings and thoughts, I salute you all with my deepest respect and love.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0028par0558	Thank you, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0029par0559	They told me their dreams, their dreams.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0025par0560	It's not a dream, it's a fact; he's been auctioned off, he's been shot, he's started on these projects.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0029par0561	There's no pattern.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0030par0562	Teacher, no one can keep up with your dreams.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0029par0563	Yeah, yeah. Thirteen years in power, still dreaming.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0031par0564	Tekirdağ MP Tevfik Ziyaeddin Akbulut. Here you are, Mr. Akbulut.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0032par0567	Mr. President, honorable MPs, my fellow citizens who follow us, I salute you with love and respect. Before I begin my words, I also condemn the terrorist attacks against more than 100 students in Pakistan, Yemen, and in these friendly countries, with violence and hatred. Also, today is the 741st anniversary of the death of the great mujaddid, the man of ideas, the man of meaning, the Holy Mazelalettin Rumi. I remember him with gratitude and mercy. In 2015, in our country, in our world, in the Islamic geography, I call upon him to be the cause of unity, unity, brotherhood. Today, I will speak on the basis of the budget of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, an organization that has a history of 177 years, which serves our nation by keeping an heirloom from our ancestors, Ottomans. You know, our ancestors used to put a lot of emphasis on property. When they conquered a country, the deedmen would go there first, and they would record all the properties and properties. The right to ownership is one of the constitutional fundamental rights between rights and freedoms. This rights facility is being carried out by Tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate. This institution, once criticised in our country, is now among the most important and reliable institutions in our country. In the period of the AK PARTI governments, which re-organised the state with all its institutions for public service, based on the individual, Tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate were also subject to a crucial reform. During this period, the agency has become a state-of-the-art public institution that has rapidly upgraded itself, adapting to the modern development of the age. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been provided with a significant change in the institution under its short name, the TAKBIS, the Tapu and the Kadastro Information System project. This project has been implemented in all property managers since May 2012. As this project began to be implemented, it was intended to transfer property information across the country into a computer environment and conduct all kinds of interrogations and implement the most basic e-government application, providing very important innovations and facilitators in the deed. With this system, the services of our citizens are more reliable, up-to-date and fast. On the other hand, real and legal individuals are able to apply and process quickly through the Internet and by making an appointment at the ALO 181 call center, which has entered the new service. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been completed, except for 281 troubled units, with the cadastro work that has been going on since the founding of our republic, buying services from the private sector in our time. As you know, the cadastro is a very important study of identifying the boundaries of immovable goods on the land and on the map and on their legal status and rights over it. On the other hand, our citizens abroad are now able to perform the deed abroad easily. The application was started in Germany. I want to thank all of our past governments, ministers, executives and employees of the Bureau of Tapu and Kadastro, who have been involved in bringing these innovations into our country and into the Tapu Kadastro Foundation. The financial year of 2015 calls upon our country, our nation, and all of the employees of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate to do well, and I offer my love and respect to all of you again.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0033par0581	Thank you, Mr. Akbulut. Istanbul MP Osman Boyraz. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0034par0585	Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budgetary budgetary budgetary budgetary budgetary budgetary budgetary budget for 2015. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens, with love, respect, and conversation. Before I begin my words, I remember a cause, a man of the heart, a mercy and gratitude for the 741st vuslat anniversary, which calls the whole world to brotherhood, peace, unity, and unity. Actually, I'd like to talk to you about the budget for Tapu and the Cadastro General Directorate. The speaker before me made detailed statements. As you know, the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate has done serious work in every part of our country over the past 12 years. In 12 years, we have served in transportation, in education, in energy, in agriculture, in health, in justice, in safety, in almost all areas, in accordance with the expectations and demands of the nation, and we continue to do so. If we go back ten years or one year, refresh our memory, remember those days, when the Constitutional pamphlet flew in the air, inflation peaked, interest went crazy, unemployment went to the extreme, people's hopes and expectations ended. On that day, the AK PARTI will come to power, and he will do these things. If we all said, "I think that's what we would call it, including us," we would say. But thank God everything is clear, the accounts are clear, the services are present. Which one should I tell you is the falling interest rates, the increasing national revenues, the numbers of exports, the rate of growth, whether inflation is falling into single digits, or thousands of miles of roads. But maybe the most important thing that the AK PARTI government has ever done is to restore this nation's self-esteem, which is lost one way or another. Once again, this nation's confidence in the past ancient civilization has been built again with the AK PARTI power, and once again, our nation is always on its way with self-confidence. We have shown to the world world that those who represent this nation have shown to our nation a political movement, which, as in the past, has not been bowing its neck anywhere, but bowing to one another, bowing to one another, just in front of the nation. This nation has eliminated all these games by showing their common sense, their judgment, their judgment, their achievement, against any attack, against any attack at the point of destroying their self-esteem. Finally -- time is very limited -- especially when we said that the national Union and Brotherhood Project, together with our nation, that we would build bridges of hearts, to share the same language, to share the same feelings with our nation, that we would make all kinds of initiatives at the point of becoming first-class citizens, from the east to the west, from the north to the south, from the east, from the east to the south, from the top of our nation.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0035par0591	The first-class citizen lives in the palace, in the palace!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0034par0592	And we say, "We have come from the people, and we have not come from the palaces." And we found in the foods of this nation, in the best parts of the land, the tamarisks.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0035par0593	He's in the palace, but he's in the palace! He's saying it with his own mouth.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0036par0594	From the slums to the palace!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0034par0595	In particular, we say on this nation's Union and Brotherhood Project, as the poet has expressed on it: The human being should come to us. Some steal the land, some steal the yellow, It's all about the skin. Talk to people, talk to people, talk to people.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0037par0600	Take your mother with you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0034par0601	We're building bridges of love on the bridges of our nation's hearts, and hopefully in this unity and unity all over our country, in the mountains, in the stones, the songs of unity and unity will be sung, and we'll all be happy, and we'll all be happy. With these feelings and thoughts, once again, I wish the good luck of our 2015 budget to our country, to our nation, to the Lord God, and to all our ministries, to all our Plan and Budget Commission members, and to all our nations, who have made the night and the day to prepare this budget, especially our government, especially the sweat, the labor, the tears. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0037par0604	Our mercy will be greater than our wrath!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0038par0605	Thank you, Mr Boyraz. Amassian MP Avni Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0039par0609	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Ministry of Education budget. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as the AK PARTY authorities, we have put a great deal of emphasis on education, and we have always devoted the largest share of the budget to education, with the belief that only education can achieve the goal of the happy nation. In Turkey, where we took over, the National Ministry of Defence budget was 8.2 billion and the Ministry of Education budget was 7.4 billion. We've raised the national Defense Ministry budget to 22.7 billion, the Ministry of National Education budget to 62 billion. So in 2002, the budget for the Ministry of National Education was less than the budget for the Ministry of National Defence, while today, the National Ministry of Defence has tripled its budget. Dear lawmakers, as the AK PARTI government, we have done important work to ensure the equality of opportunities in education. To that end, we distributed the textbooks for free and saved our parents a great deal of trouble. We encouraged small-income families to send their children to school with conditional education benefits. We expanded the transport training practices to include the high school, facilitated access to the school. We started the FATIH Project, installed 65 thousand smart boards in 3,657 schools, distributed 739 thousand tablets to our teachers and students. As we've devoted the largest share of the budget to education, we've devoted the most staff each year to education. We appointed 458,000 of the 811,000 teachers working today as AK PARTY power. So, more than half of the teachers who worked today were appointed to the AK PARTY. We've started 12 years of mandatory training. We've improved human and physical infrastructure in education, there were 347 thousand classrooms in 2002, we've completed the construction of 234,000 new classes in the last 12 years. We've raised schooling rates in all levels, especially in girls' schooling. We've raised the schooling rate of 11 per cent in preschool education to 42 per cent. We supported private education. Dear lawmakers, these studies have increased quality in education, contributed to the equality of opportunity. If we evaluate the always criticised PISA results in the equality of opportunities in education, we will see that success more clearly. Because the difference between family children with the lowest income group in 2003 and family children with the highest income group in 2003 has increased by 122, while in 2012 the difference between the two groups in the OECD is down to 86, and the difference between the two groups is 90. I mean, we've come to a better point in this area than OECD countries with policies for the equality of opportunity we've been implementing for 12 years. Dear lawmakers, in fact, 2003, 2014 was the year of the move in education. At this time, we adopted a more democratic and liberal education. With the 4+4+4 system, we wiped out the last traces of February 28th in training. The victims of February 28th have returned to their professions. We lifted the ban on headscarf in middle school and high school. We took into account the student's skills and preferences, brought new electives. We started studying the Qur'an and the cyer classes by choice. His coefficient on blocking Imam-haki high schools was severely affected by his injustice to all vocational education.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0040par0615	What about the unregistered teachers?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0039par0616	We've eliminated the coefficient injustice, opened the way for vocational education, supported vocational upper secondary schools in organised industries, and raised the share of vocational and technical education from 36 per cent to 54 per cent. We counted the teacher, the school, and the student as the primary element of education. We started TEOG. With this system, we reduced the need for non-school institutions, opened courses for the needy student in schools, saved our parents from additional material burdens. Do we think all this is enough? Of course, we say no because the target is 2023. Then we'll have to work harder. Hopefully, just as we've overcome the difficulties so far under the guidance of our teachers, our teachers, we'll overcome the problems ahead with them, I salute all of our fellow teachers, the Ministry staff, and all of the valued members of our great Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0041par0619	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Ardahan MP Orhan Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0042par0623	Mr. President, in recent years, we've accomplished perhaps dozens of times more in education than in 90 years. However, we also know that we have important issues that require more difficult efforts at the point of training to reach Maksu. Dear friends, yesterday we can't ignore the fact that a shallow, positivistic look that almost reduced the human to a pure biological dimension, under the label of science, which some use for political and ideological purposes, and in a financial context today, its practical function is becoming an axe in the hand of the madman. We know that the person who reduces his own purpose to material reasons will become alien to himself, then to the environment, history, society, and life altogether. As you can see, communities as well as human beings have their own identity and personality. The main spring that feeds all this is a civilizational basin where one feels belonging. It is clear that one of the two most important elements of each civilization is religion and the other is language. For example, if you take Latin from European civilization and Christianity or Buddhism from Indian civilization, how much do you have to define the rest as a civilization? Since education also has a paper on renovating a civilization that has been implemented in geography, don't we have to answer the question of how far our education has accomplished it? Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the famous orientist Renan, gave a lecture at the University of the Sorbonne in March 1883 called Islam and Science. He made a religious claim there, arguing that Islam had prevented the abandonment. Many scholars, thinkers, and politicians have been subjected to severe criticism, but this claim has been subjugated by scientific, rationality or modernity because it serves the ideological purposes of the victors, and has been crowned with an absolute crown of truth and has been subjugated into many educational curriculums. Ziya Pasha had disappeared, and this rumor had just come out. This slander was clear to him, and it was to make disciples of those born in the harem of Islam. It was to alienate Islamic civilisations, then undermine their self-esteem, and thus make physical defeat feel deep into their soul's roots. Let's not forget that his ego is to imitate the behavioral mode winners of the dead, and what's more, to master them, to see their own mountains as garbage, and then to give them to the mane. The job of those who are left without capital is to start begging, and the next thing you know, it's to dress up in a suit of fate and wait for death. At the end of the hundred years of a complete crisis of identity and meaning, we saw that despite all the efforts we've made to cut off all relations with our civilization values, especially language and religion, we still could not rise to the level of murky civilization. Mr. President, isn't it clear, in recent years, the changes that we can describe as a sort of a return to national education are essentially a very meaningful effort to get us to meet us? What could be more important than a society meeting its cultural heritage? Ottoman is the main language of our vast cultural heritage, which has been in this geographical basin for hundreds of years. Not knowing the native language means not talking to the mother, which means not being able to feed on the root.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0043par0628	It's as if you've ever read the Ottoman texts...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0042par0629	Let's not be embarrassed that we can't read our grandfather's tombstone, while we have just been free of years of shameful shame, such as banning a person's conversation with his mother.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0044par0630	Go, my son, the graves are waiting for you. Who's stopping you? Allahu Akbar!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0042par0631	Mr. President, I'm sure those of you who are going to write this historic phase of Turkey will take a long place in this bet and make sure that the success of this period is the Islamic maniiterakki.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0044par0632	Go to the grave every day, the graves are there. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0042par0633	...they'll call it the most obvious answer to his claim. Today, in the claim of orientism, the people of this land...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0044par0635	Don't seek refuge in the Ottoman language to cover up the thefts, my friend. Ottoman doesn't cover the thefts, their theft remains Ottoman.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0042par0636	...that goes with 40-50, so sometimes it turns out that Japan, China, Russia, and the genius of Turkey, had to change the language and religion in order to change the geographical scale of China, Russia, and Turkey. I wish our budget was a blessing, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0045par0639	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Balıkesir MP Ali Aydınlıoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Aydınlıoğlu.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0643	I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on our National Ministry of Education's budget for 2015. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear friends, since 2002, the share of our national education ministry has been before the budgets of all ministries and, thankfully, has risen to number 1st. There is a direct relationship between higher education and economic development in achieving changes, transformation and development in our country, the budget share of education in achieving its goals of 2023 and 2071. Dear friends, the National Ministry of Education budget was $7.5 billion in 2002, while in 2015 it had 80 billion 857 million Turkish liras. Thank God we've seen today. Remember the conditions of the previous schools, and look at the physical state of the current schools, which have become remarkable places combined with the beautiful Seljucian and Ottoman architecture and the republican architecture. My dear friends, a teacher who started in 2002 received $2.693 lira in 2014, with an additional tuition fee.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0047par0647	That's less than enough.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0648	Is that enough? It's never gonna happen, and hopefully it'll get better. Again, the average number of students per class dropped from 34 per class to 29 in the 2013-2014 school year, given the physical arrangements we made during the 2002-03 school year. In this regard, in our own province of Balıkesir, the number of classrooms increased from 6,811 in 2002 to 8,736 (14) in 2014, so in our province of Balıkesir, a total of 1,925 new textbooks were added in 12 years. This total cost 215 million TL. In 2002, the number of students per class in Balıkesir province fell from 24 to 21 to 20 today.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0048par0650	Congressman, how's olivery, olivery?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0651	Again, the University of Balıkesir, which includes 11 universities, including medical schools and hospitals established in our time, has been among the most ambitious universities of higher education, 5 institutes, 16 universities of applied sciences, and 50,000 students and Balıkesir University, which have rapidly completed its development. Again, 153 million dollars from our budget this year is being transferred to the University of Balıkesir. During the time of our government, from the liberal education philosophy of free clothing to the removal of the ban on the headscarf for our teachers, to the freeing of the headdress of our teachers in secondary school, to the removal of the coefficient in vocational high schools, to the removal of antidemocratic expressions in the education curriculum, to the freeing of the education in different languages and dialects, to the freeing of the life of Hazreti Prophet, and to the elective selection of Quran classes in Kerim. Dear friends, regarding the Ottoman language that has caused major controversy in our country recently, I would like to say that Ottoman language is the name of the Turkish language used in the Ottoman era. After the Turks, the Ottomans, dominated Turkish and Muslim geography, we had centuries of Ottoman culture and civilization in a large part of the world. Unfortunately, as we do not know our culture and our history, we find it difficult to find experts in our archives to translate the texts and ancient Ottoman archives. Ataturk's speech and rhetoric are also in Ottoman language. The famous linguist Nihat Sami Banarli says that it is not a Turkish language. Turkish is not the language of a nation. Turkish is the language of a civilization.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0049par0654	Isn't Turkish the language of a nation? How can a Turkish nation not have a language?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0655	What could be more natural than the Ottoman language of civilization and culture being taught as a mandatory lesson in imam-gathering schools?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0049par0656	The language of a Turkish nation, the language of a Turkish nation!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0657	Each of us in this country has three years of secondary school, three years of high school, four years of college, even though we studied English...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0049par0658	How can a Turkish nation not have a language? Turkish nation's language is Turkish, Turkish nation's language!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0659	For God's sake, which one of us can read and speak English like our mother tongue?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0049par0660	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0661	I wish we could read and write English, Ottoman, Turkish as our native language. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I don't understand what the MHP is about.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0050par0664	You can't write, brother, so I'm telling you, you can't write and it won't do you any good.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0665	Whether you want the Ottomans to be selected in high schools, forced to read in imams or not, this nation will appreciate it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0050par0666	If you want to know, find out, no one's stopping you. Learn, brother! Didn't they teach you how to learn?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0667	Yes, because it's our language, it's too late for our students to find out.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0050par0668	Learn, for God's sake! Find out how I found out!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0046par0669	With these feelings, I wish our 2015 budget would be a blessing, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0050par0671	Who says you can't learn? Why didn't you find out?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0051par0672	Thank you, Mr. Aydınlıoğlu. Heromarash MP Mehmet Satın. Here you go, Mr. Secret.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0052par0676	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I stand before you on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Board of Higher Education. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0053par0677	Mr. President, let the head of staff hear this, Congressman. Our head of staff hasn't been on our phone in ten days, Mr. President, and he hasn't been on our phones in ten days. I'm calling as a congressman, he hasn't been on our phone for ten days, Mr. Secretary, ten days!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0054par0678	It's not coming out to us either.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0055par0679	Mr. Pine, please... Mr. Secret, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0056par0681	Friends and brothers, I also share the mourning of the Pakistani nation here, expressing my regrets.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0057par0682	Do you have to go out?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0058par0683	He has to, yes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0059par0684	The need to be human...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0060par0685	As a courtesy, Mr. Metiner, as a courtesy.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0061par0686	The importance of higher education is growing throughout the world. Education is one of the things that the world is most concerned about by being primarily associated with development. However, after World War II in particular, the world has moved from elite education to mass education in higher education. So today, 30 per cent of the age population is not considered a developed country without a minimum four-year degree. Turkey has also tried to demonstrate that, more or less, by expanding its universities, by opening new universities in the face of a huge demand for higher education. Now here, as much as opening new universities, it becomes very important for them to be managed with a new understanding. Today our universities have to be innovative. Transparency, accountability, quality and accordion, the management of the shareholders is of great importance. I mean, students, faculty...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0062par0688	Is the autonomy lifted, Mr. President? No autonomy?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0061par0689	I will, sir, if you'll excuse me. Now, Lisbon, according to the Bologna Process, is a progressive university administration with the contribution of professors, students, NGOs; in fact, not just a training that raises manpower to the economy, but a educational system where graduates themselves have the ability to create jobs. Now, the most important thing is that after high school, after middle school, we all know that two years and more education has been given directly to universities. So entering universities after secondary school is one of the most important parts of university quality in general, where universities choose to recruit. So, first, our university entry system has reached a level that is really proud of the fact that it is based on merit today and that it is being improved. At the entrance, some of the initial problems have been eliminated and a new system of pride has been established. Today, more or less, our number of universities between 2006 and 2008 has been raised to 178, where the demand for opening new universities has been met, while colleges have been developed in a number of new tools, such as lifting tuitions, raising student dorms, food hall subsidies, higher education compensation, academic incentives, and higher quality, as well as students' demands. Now, teaching a faculty is the most important problem against such a newly opened university. On the one hand, the Higher Education Board, TÜBITAK, has entered a teaching and research training campaign to meet the need of a major academic staff, both by sending people abroad and by training researchers from our advanced universities. Now, what's important right now is that we're not just raising faculty at our universities, we're talking about cooperation with the industry. Meanwhile, developments in industrial cooperation continue with RD activities. In particular, the establishment of the High Council of Science and Technology, which we hope will start with Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been President of the prime ministers in recent years -- which we hope will also start with our new Prime Minister as an academic -- was something that drew the road map of Turkey in science and technology. It gathers twice a year and contributes splendidly to where Turkey will go in terms of education and education, in terms of research. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] STUBITAK-backed transfers of technology and university investments and techno parks are significant developments, especially in RD and ÜR-GE. I think we're out of time. In the meantime, I would like to point out that at least we have a young population, and we have to provide these young people with the knowledge and skill of the age. I sincerely congratulate my fellow professors, my fellow students in higher education, I encourage our young people to take the most advantage of their efforts, I salute them, and as a nation, I declare that we are condemned and obliged to really care about higher education, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0063par0699	Thank you, Mr. Solid. Zonguldak MP Ercan Candan... Here you go, Mr. Candan.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0064par0703	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the board of higher education. I hereby salute your high council. When we consider the Board of Higher Education as a whole, in fact, there have been some significant developments since it was established. I'm going to talk about it briefly, and then I'm going to talk about the others. During this period, the number of public universities has increased, especially during our governments; of course, in 2002, that number has now increased to 176. The university fees applied for decades have been removed, student pardon laws have been passed, the implementation of the teaching programme -- which, in fact, is the best, most appropriate practice that the SEC has done, which I say as a person who takes advantage of them -- and there have been developments, such as increasing the number of students and their capacity. Of course, it seems a little difficult to say that the increase in capacity at the Higher Education Board is within the framework of a specific plan and that there is a balanced share between the faculty. And we all agree that the Board of Higher Education must be restructured in Turkey. It has been a constant problem since before us and before us. We've changed the law over and over and over again, and although we've given central powers to universities, it's still not pleasing to anyone. Thus, the restoration of Law 2547 and its NGO system is inevitable, and that is one of the priorities of our governments. Hopefully, in the coming years, we will take this seriously, and we are working very carefully on it. What's supposed to be here? The SEC must be reduced to its powers, to become an upper body in charge of co-direction and planning, and we need to consider the increase of university autonomy, academic freedom, university administrative and financial autonomy. However, a matter that may not have been paid attention until now, but should be dealt with violently from now on, a mechanism for the higher education system's accountability towards society must be established. Hopefully, we, the government, will discuss this in the coming period. Perhaps this accountability has a little bit of potential due to the election of the President by the public and the fact that the President has an active role in the NGO, but that's one of the things that needs to be considered. Since it's been established, the Board of Higher Education, the access system to higher education... unfortunately, we haven't been able to solve these problems. Students spend their time preparing for exams. Unfortunately, the discussion of higher education in Turkey did not end. Why isn't it over? Because it was at the center of political and ideological dissolutions and quarrels, these discussions were either clouded by this problem, or it was constantly blocked by improvement. In its current form, the NGO is still extremely centrifugal. It is also inevitable that such an institution dating back to September 12th would become a centrist. In the world, universities serve basically three purposes. These are the ones that produce science; the ones that deliver science and knowledge that are produced to young generations; the other is the solution to society's needs. When we study the world's higher education, the American model seems to be coming forward, but there's actually no particular model. When we look at Germany, Sweden, Norway, the People's Republic of China, Japan, Poland, we see that there is no model. But what do we see when we look around here? When we look at the management of these, the quality security system, we see the equality of opportunity, we see flexibility, autonomy, we see accountability. So, what should we do? We need to reduce the authority of the ECHR and turn it into an upper body in charge of co-direction and planning. The presidential election is a big problem, causing serious injuries at the university, so we need to get ahead of it. Another is, we need to make improvements on the PTSD test. Without putting students on the track, we have to develop a test mechanism, just from the curriculum, and also from social activities and personal skills. We have to do it with the opposition, we have to do it with power. This is our children's business. We need to create a common mind here. I'd like to thank everyone who's been working on the 2015 budget, and I wish our country, our nation, and my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0065par0712	Thank you, Mr. Candan. İstanbul MP Halide İncekara... Here you are, Mr. Incekara.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0066par0716	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 2015 budget of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement. The centre, founded in 1974 as the Inter-United Student Selection and Placement Centre, was renamed the President of the Election and Placement Centre, which was converted into a private public institution with administrative and financial autonomy in 1981. In 2014, about 9 million candidates had submitted to the institution for 44 exams, over 11 million candidates took the exam, and 1.5 million people took the exam in 555-917 halls. I find this entire process to be run by 150 staff with a staff of 240, and I find it remarkable for the success of institutional employees. While creating an equal opportunity for candidates to move to college and institutions, the central testing system has at times carried doubts and claims about stealing, selling questions and test safety. In 2010, questions on the Internet prior to the KPSS test and allegations of questions passed to nearly 3,000 people are still awaiting enlightenment in the judiciary. It's only over time that you allow a change of mind in an institution. An institution paid by 2.5 trillions a year, ten years a year for a company that had completed a technological processing system, almost -- where the memory of the community is collected in single hands -- has reached its current status in 2011, with a dedicated and successful team. As of today, the institution has an electronically controlled pool of questions containing more than 40,000 questions. Each question is controlled by different academics in order to measure the achievements of national education in secondary school. The SNSM exams are prepared during a period called the closed period, with at least 10 times the questions asked by the printer, the questions are selected at random. The question manual is loaded into the vehicles in a closed space and the vehicles are locked in a special lock system and routes are monitored from the satellite. The textbooks are opened in front of the candidate, and each island has a different textbook of questions. In learning the halls in the morning of the exam, the halls are supported by 60,000 cameras. Remember the days when we waited months for results, and now the results are announced in almost a week. Tests conducted on computers result in a few hours. In order for our country to compete with the world in education and service, measuring and evaluation are crucial. In this regard, the goals of the OSYM are these: In different parts of the country, preparing examinations to equalize a child taking tests at a temperature of 48 degrees and a child at 20 degrees, in a comfortable environment, test comfort and security; testing open-ended questions to measure the candidate's true knowledge; making tests completely electronically; making some tests several times a year, allowing the candidate to evaluate himself at different times. We have suggestions, hoping to contribute to this process: The measurement of test questions should continue to be protected so that it does not cease to be an evaluation tool and not fall into the hands of the question traders. The measurement must also be added to intelligence, skill, and psychotechnical measurements. The projects of students with different and heavy education in science schools and other schools must be added to the rating, to be saved from inequality. Professional qualifications must be prioritized, especially in areas close to the child, especially once every five years. There are many examples of this in the world. I'm one of those who believe that not all children are equal when they measure and evaluate student gains, but not every child should be punished for the inadequacy of his education in the classroom. These should be sought and discussed. The measurement and evaluation should be established at the institute of measurement and evaluation, which will follow the conditions of the day, conduct academic studies on questions and evaluations and guide the institution. Our universities should already think more about it. Dear MPs, since 2002, you and some of our friends have changed shifts and are about to complete three periods. This process that has led to great changes in our country, while we, with our actions, with your criticism and contributions, honor our constituents, the members of the House, and you, our esteemed deputies, who have given us the power and the opportunity to do so, I wish our budget to be blessed and prosperous. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0067par0728	Thank you, Mr. Incekara. Malatya MP Mustafa Şahin... Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0732	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding the 2015 SNS budget. I salute your high council. When we look at the events that took place in that process in which many countries around the world have followed the image of this institution, where the measurement and evaluation activities took place in Turkey, we can't seem to see two-thirds of the employees who are related, who are working at a family farm, who are living in the OSYM, who are living in the same way that most of the staff in the past and who are working in the world today, who are living in the same way as many countries today, who are separated from pensions, who have started in Meteksan, who have been taken captive by test scandals, who are closed circuit workers, who work in a private sector, who are related to family farm, and who are working at the same level, I'm afraid we haven't been able to see the same trials as many of women, including spouses, brothers, brothers, brothers, brothers, brothers, brothers, brothers, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three. After a period in which the rights of the subject were really violated by being given to its own followers, especially in KPS, the code in the YGS, the text in which many misprints in ALES have been mentioned in many cases, the OSIM, which has been referred to as a result of putting students in placement, stressing the students with the test-time headgear problem, and especially during the period when our students are preparing for the exam, what kind of harassment will I certainly be subjected to at the door? In particular, the OSCE, which was converted to technological and scientific advances in 1974, became a cumbersome and static institution of the qualified element problem, was now brought to a point where the SNSM, which had been able to enter the halls of our young people's dreams that we're going to entrust our future to, and then re-established with the KPSS, where hundreds of thousands of students were waiting to be assigned to their professions, had been forced to fail year after year after year after year, due to their tests against Turkey. AS AK PARTY, it was time and time for a study that was transparent, qualitative, and positively concerned with the mission of the institution, due to the copying of our distinguished institution and the things we mentioned. With the appointment of Ali Demir Bey, the once donated interest gangs did not prevent the loss of their existing gains and domains from trying all sorts of ways. We see that the parallel structure, which decrypted itself through the December 17th operation, also exploiting our parents financially and exploiting our students, also resorting to all kinds of filth, melanete to failure, as well as the process of shutting down the classrooms that they saw our children as admirals' ships, as well as their movements -- as in other institutions -- in the ESYM -- in order to make sure that Mr. Ali and his team fail. But, with the support of our necipe nation and the measures taken...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0069par0736	Like what, Mr. Mustafa, like what?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0737	I'll see you in a little while, and I'll see you around, all right? ...the effort to carry out the activities they had dreamed of in the past has failed. In the process following these events, as in other institutions, we have witnessed that all doubts have been eliminated by revolutionary regulations, as we have done in our distinguished institution. As the parallel structure is called, today, indeed, December 17th... in our country, especially amongst our people, who have been able to maintain their trust -- unfortunately -- our people are now very well deciphered and have completely lost confidence in them -- and unfortunately, right now, they're trying to maintain external connections outside of our people and to maintain their roofs with the opposition inside.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0070par0741	Teacher, they did it with opposition. Don't say that, the quarrel between you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0742	What they're doing is...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0070par0743	Teacher, it's a conflict of interest between you. Don't, Mustafa, don't, don't!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0744	You're with them today because they're against the AK PARTY with the people you cursed until yesterday.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0070par0745	The coupe is separate, the corruption is separate; let's split it in two.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0746	And your base won't forgive you...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0070par0747	There's a coup, there's corruption, don't do it!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0748	And history will never forgive you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0071par0749	Yeah, you walked together, you shared, you got along, you crossed paths together!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0750	No matter how much you squirm, no matter how much you squirm, the end is sad. So far, fighting the nation, standing by the coupgers, supporting the coupgers...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0072par0751	Mr. Mustafa, don't do it, don't do it!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0752	...no institution has ever been successful with the troublemakers, with them, as they will not be.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0073par0753	You tell them, you tell yourself.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0072par0754	How's the apricot situation this year?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0755	You see, our great nation has condemned you today.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0072par0756	You talk about apricots, apricots!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0757	Right now, if you ask the bottom, what percentage...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0074par0759	You're showing off, show off!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0760	You'll see very well that you've found it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0075par0761	Come to the apricot, Kaishya!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0068par0762	I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0076par0764	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0077par0765	Mr. President, the speaker has offended the Republican People's Party, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0078par0766	Why would he pick on me? We're not gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0079par0767	What did he say, sir?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0077par0768	They collaborated with some criminal organizations...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0080par0769	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0077par0770	He accused a group of parallel state crime syndicates, then tried to establish a relationship with the Republican People's Party. I want to answer that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0081par0771	Are you related or not?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0082par0772	No, sir, there's no such thing. He didn't mention it, he didn't say it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0083par0773	That's right, sir. The Republican People's Party put its legal identity in the same line as the parallel state.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0084par0774	That's right, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0085par0775	He referred to what he said.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0086par0776	He didn't talk, he never mentioned it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0087par0777	I'm listening, too, sir. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0088par0781	Dear friends, the Justice and Development Party has a mindset that wakes up every morning with different ideas...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0089par0782	Let's not make fun of it, please!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0088par0783	You may answer.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0090par0784	Let's not mess around!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0088par0785	Now, you're accusing yourself of being a parallel state in order to form a parallel state, an organization that you've been involved in for a long time in aiding and abetting, taking long roads together, and what did the former Prime Minister say we didn't want?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0090par0786	No, it's an organization, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0088par0787	You're trying to form a one-party government.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0091par0788	Do you have to do it just because we did it wrong?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0088par0789	You're often talking about coups, but you want to make a legal coup here so that the previous President doesn't get elected, and even ban him from running. Even that incident, the Republican People's Party, went to the Constitutional Court and prevented it only because it defended the rule of law. In the matter of Ergenekon of the Republican People's Party of Republican People's Party, in the trial of the People's Party Sledgehammer, we have done whatever you apologize for today. Whatever you said in the past, we have fought for all of this. That's all we do today. We're not on anyone's side, we're not on anybody's side, we're not on anybody's side.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0092par0790	You're arm in arm. You're arm in arm.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0088par0791	We stand by the rule of law and the understanding of justice of the great Turkish nation. If there's a problem tomorrow when the arrests start, if there's something wrong with him, we'll be able to support you, just as we were against yesterday's injustices. I give you my love.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0093par0794	And when will you be in power?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0094par0795	June.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0095par0796	Thank you, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0096par0797	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0095par0798	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0096par0799	Before that, Mr. Ali Aydınlıoğlu, I don't understand what the position of the MHP is when we're talking directly about Ottoman Turkish to our party -- in his speech -- in order not to be wrong -- I want to speak with him, without bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0097par0800	No teasing, sir, no teasing.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0098par0801	What's he gonna do if he doesn't get it?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0099par0802	He'll tell you now, listen.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0100par0803	We'll take a break, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0101par0804	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0102par0806	Thank you, Mr. President. Ali Aydınlıoğlu Bey is a teacher of Turkish Language and Literature at Anadolu University. Sadly, a person who teaches Turkish says: "It is not a Turkish language, it is not the language of a nation, it is the language of a Turkish nation. If Turkish is not the language of a nation, then there is no language of a civilization. I mean, the word "Turkish" is already from Turkey. Is it possible that there is no Turkish language, that a nation has no language? English is the language of a nation, German is the language of a nation, French, Persian, Arabic is the language of a nation, but it is not Turkish! Now, the way someone who teaches Turkish talks like that once...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0103par0808	It's not just the language of a nation, it's the language of a civilization.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0102par0809	Brother, this is where I read you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0103par0810	That's what he meant.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0102par0811	On the other hand, about the Ottoman matter. Mr. Ali was responsible for learning Ottoman, because in Turkish and Literature, Ottoman Turkish is taught, but I understand that there are some who can't learn in college as well. I don't think you've ever learned Ottoman Turkish, let him come and read me something; I think he hasn't read it, I don't think he's learned it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0104par0812	Do you read?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0102par0813	Yeah, I read them, all of them, including blackness.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0105par0814	Bring it to me and I'll read it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0102par0815	It's not about reading, it's about understanding. Therefore, if a person who is obliged to read Ottoman Turkish reads Ottoman language for four years but does not know Ottoman language, he must also know that there is no way to teach Ottoman language to anyone else. First of all, let him tell me what is in the past, tell me what is in the last term of the word,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Now, look, in Ottoman language, learning Ottoman Turkish... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...only for the experts in this matter. 50,000 books have been developed, so translated into the Latin alphabet, let's see if anyone's read one, who's read one?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0106par0819	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013 Kars MP Yunus Kılıç... Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0107par0844	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, there are key criteria that determine the level of development in certain areas of countries. For example, when you look at health care, values such as infant mortality, average life expectancy, mother mortality; for example, when you look at livestock, agriculture, biotechnology, how much do you use, how much does nanotechnology dominate nanotechnology, how common parasitic diseases are in a country; all of these are a criteria: but the most important criteria for understanding the overall level of development and sustainability of a country are the value, the number that is dedicated to developing research in that country, the number, the place in the budget, and the number in general education. My esteemed lawmakers are a country that wants to get rid of the middle income group, which is Turkey's claim to produce added value, which wants to get rid of the middle income group quickly and strengthen its position every day in the world, but the way to do that depends on its ability to use science, depending on its use of technology, its budget for RD. The higher these numbers are in their universities, the higher they are, the higher they are in which the universities produce, produce information, and, as my teacher just said, can expand the area that they teach and share, the higher their industry uses that information, so the higher its added value becomes. Currently, Turkey is a country that still gains the weight of exports at $4. We need to increase this, but when you look at imports, it's a country that's in imports for 25 to 30 dollars, 70 dollars. So the way to close this gap, and the way Turkey can complete the success process that it deserves and which it has come up with a bet, and where it can be sustainable, permanent, is to create technology and create infrastructure that can generate information to its industry. And the most important part of that is the universities and the budgets that you're spending on them. In fact, Turkey began with a serious move during the first years of the republic's formation, but it was at the point of education, which was immature, unsustainable, unsustainable. Later, in recent years, in particular, these budgets have been seriously increased. Look, I'll give you a very small example: TÜBITAK is our most important scientific institution, and its budget from 1963 to 2003 is $2 billion, respected lawmakers. So when you divide this into a year, 50 million liras per year, and something even funnier, we're talking about a country that's spent $1.7 billion of this budget entirely on staff expenses, and we're hoping to develop science, art, technology in this country. It's all for nothing. So at $2.5 million a year, you're trying to create RD, scientific work, information, technology. Is it possible? It's not. See, when you look at developed countries, their share of R&D is between 2.5 per cent and 5 per cent. In Turkey, the money for R&D and universities is in 0.2. Look, when you look at its budget in the 0.2. What time today? In 2014, he approached 1 percent. Is that enough? It's not. It has to go up to the two, the two, and the two, and the three. But with this trend, hopefully, in five years, ten years, we'll have a budget for these RD studies that this level of development needs. But as long as scientific culture and scientific understanding develop, we look at it as a country... it's not just the work of a government, it's the work of the whole country, it's the work of the people. As long as we can create scientific culture, as long as we respect it, it's universities that can do the RD work that the country needs, with both our brains and budgets. As long as we support them, because at the same time, the number of universities has increased, the number of students has increased, the number of academics has increased, and these are the budgets that we provide for universities to develop the scientific environment with both their rights and their physical infrastructure. Well, this budget, folks, has increased by 10 times over the years. Look, the entire budget for education in 2002 is 10 billion, 81 billion today. In 2002, the budget of 2.5 billion universities again is 19 billion today. I mean, look, there's an eight-fold increase. Is that enough? He emphasises that Turkey must continue by increasing its claims, wishing that the budget would bring blessings to our country, science and humanity, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit01spe0108par0852	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Congressmans, I'm taking a recess until 2:30.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0108par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We'll continue our seventh round budget talks. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. Your time is nineteen minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0109par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the National Movement Group on the budget of the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate in 2015. On behalf of myself and our group, I salute our General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I would like to express in particular that we condemn the terrorist incidents of friend and brother Pakistan with violence and wire on behalf of our group and ask for God's mercy on their lives. Dear lawmakers, annual budgets are very important for today's economic and social future. Therefore, the quality budgets produced in scientific logic, which will reassure our nation, whose feet are firmly on the ground, should be a report card for the authorities as well. At this point, budgets that carry these qualities, which can offer investments for our nation, and in sufficient service, unfortunately, have not been seen in 12 years, and the government budget report card is full of broken notes, just as it is in the 2015 budget that we are interviewing today. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, annual budgets are now being tried to close with a once-in-a-lifetime income. What are these revenues? 2/B, a number of revenues, such as privatisation revenues, tax and bonus pardons, cost-benefits, are trying to keep the income pen going. The annual budget for $1 billion,358m, which was earmarked to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, was lower than its initial grants in 2012 and 2013, as was last year. Those who say they will provide ambitious services in the field of environment and urbanism must first show a serious ability to increase the ministry budget in order to achieve that. The 2015 budget is about 30 per cent lower than the 2013 budget. Underprivileged budgets, the ministry will not be able to carry out the modern, improved environmental and urban services necessary for our country. Precious lawmakers have stated that the ministry's presentation to the Plan and Budget Commission, which still does not exist in the institution's law, is to prevent pollution, raise environmental standards, create healthy, safe, brand cities, ensure the transformation of buildings and areas at risk of disaster. However, as we have seen in practice in the past years, the ministry's sensitivity to the environment remains in statements given in these official presentations, which do not exceed the status of public spotlights, or a number of environmental disasters that result in some neglects, to give public advice to the public, nothing more than a series of non-deep, non-responsive political statements. For years, there have been mountain-like problems in the area of environmental and urbanism, adding new ones every day, many of which are unfortunately done by the Ministry's hand. As the smell of rant spreads, of course, the idea of environmental and urbanism is far away. For the first time in this scope, the CED Convention, released in 1993, has been changed 17 times in total, including seven major changes at the time of the AKP Governments. The regulation, published on October 3, 2013, was published about a year later, again, in the Official Gazette, November 25, 2014. There is no reasonable reason why the CED regulations, published by the European Union and changed only three times since 1985, changed seven times in 12 years in our country. This alone shows that our country's environmental policies have become a tool and a tool of some power centers. As a matter of fact, these environmental failures have also entered EU progress reports each year, and the latest 2014 report shows that changes in the CED and nature protection legislation raise serious concerns, and then underlines that strategic planning and a stronger administrative capacity are needed. Dear lawmakers have been given the CED positive opinion for 3,000 projects in the past 12 years, and the CED has decided that 42,000 projects do not need a report. That's an interesting number, because even CED regulations before the last change were run against the environment completely. What has happened that every project has been easily passed through the CED process, but is needed today from last year to today? Here, the most important need here is undoubtedly hidden in the exemptions that the government wants to bring to the CED process for certain facilities. Over and over and over again, the amendments made in the Court of the Environment, after the recent amendment to the Environmental Law was cancelled in the Constitutional Court, as well as a defeated pehlivan again, some exemptions have been issued in a CED regulations, and some provisions against the environment have been put into this final regulation. In the budget talks, the Ministry also said: "I will make a CED arrangement that is compatible with the EU's A.D.A.P., but contrary to these statements, there has also been a regulation that is full of exemptions, even though there are no exemptions in the EU CED Director. The ministry has also fallen into such contradictions by defunctioning this regulation, which is the cornerstone of environmental control. Dear lawmakers, what will these regulation changes lead to? Look, as with the olive groves in Manisa Yerca, it is said that Izmir would stand guard day and night in the village of Urla Ovacık, where the villagers are now waiting for any facilities to be built in order to protect their trees, where wind power plants are being built. Precious lawmakers, on top of that, an interesting subject: in the 2013-2017 Strategic Plan, the concepts of coercion such as the referenced environment and the market cities come to us as a concept that can never be filled. In fact, if we look at this 2015 programme, where Mr. Secretary has his own signature, dear friends, which, in preparation, all members of the Council of Ministers are prepared to sign and be paid, but unfortunately, the ministers are also signing without reading the articles, warnings, measures, and projects. And what they used to do will become apparent to them. Living and brand cities, we now see that the concept of making only luxury structures quickly, of making higher profits from them, has become permanent in both central and local elements. This, of course, creates serious concerns and warnings not only in our country, but also on international platforms. A law number 6306 has been passed, a law on the transformation of disaster-threatening sites. Under this law, we left behind a two-and-a-half-year period of practice regarding urban transformation. When we look at this, I mean, when we look at these law enforcements, we see that the Ministry has no priority in thinking and prioritizing cities within the sense of urban transformation. What do we have here, what priorities? We're already seeing a high-density, no aesthetic and architectural concern, a sense of construction and a shallow urbanization of adjacent structures, which have been built on the condition of building up adjacent structures, which have been arranged with adornmented and adornmented with adornmental building materials. The approach, which sees urban transformation as a number of buildings that have been destroyed, is being transformed into risky areas only over the years. The approach that we see now seems to be a continuation of this. No matter what happens, the idea of taking down the old building and replacing it with a new one and keeping the economy alive is also the main strategy of power. In short, we call it the economies of concrete, or the economies of construction. The ministry explains that 52 per cent of its risky construction has been done in Istanbul alone. Now, it turns out that the government has only come up with the idea of Istanbul for urban transformation, especially in a number of cities that are at risk for earthquakes -- which are at the beginning of them -- that are of no importance at all. And I think it's important to point out that this approach is going to be heavy after a possible earthquake disaster. The ministry says it uses more than $1 billion as part of the expenditures made under my urban size. At the point of the use of this $1 billion collected, scientific studies are also useful, valued lawmakers. Because what the benefits are, where they're being used, needs to be brought out in a fair and transparent way. Recently, the Ministry has also admitted that there has been a serious damage to our coastal areas in recent years. As part of the Coastal Law alone in 2014, we must not forget that in the work of coastal plans, 41 coastal facilities and investments were approved by the Ministry as part of the Bosporus Law and 10 zoning plans. Dear lawmakers have been waiting for years for the appointment of environmental engineers, and it's sad to say that at every recruitment of personnel to the public, they expect a staff from this Ministry, the main ministry, which is what they're supposed to be working for. However, the ministry, with its name around, does not need an environmental engineer. Today, the Environmental Law has a definition of such a vague, unsolicited, undefined officer as the circuit officer. The Ministry must immediately give up this definition. In addition, the Ministry wants to take control of the Environmental Engineers Room into its own hands. Again, contrary to the government's emphasis on NGOs, it's about freedoms, they want to control the Environmental Engineers' Chamber themselves. We're dealing with a contradiction here, too. We have a proposal to the Ministry, which thinks that the country's environmental awareness is only going to increase with public spotlights, as our National Movement Party, we say: In primary education, allow environmental awareness classes to take part in the course programmes. You sit side by side with Mr. Secretary after the National Education Service, in which case you might be able to go to a syllabus change. If we don't take these and similar measures very quickly, we will see that when we come to 2012, we are ranked as the 49th in environmental health and conservation in 2006, as in the World Environment Performance Index, at Yale University, for example. When these new indicators come out, I'm sure we'll be in worse shape than this. In the category of biodiversity and conservation of natural areas, we were the 121st among 132 countries. What's interesting is that we're now in the same category as countries like Eritrea, Moldova, Libya, Iraq, and 92 percent of the world's countries. Dear MPs, the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, who have yet to secure the property information in their hands, have allowed the property information of 1,568 thousand citizens living in Ankara to fall into the hands of third parties, and unfortunately, it cannot be stopped. This is a serious scandal. It is now a mystery how much of Turkey's personal property information is still in the hands of the third party. Dear MPs, even the institution's Deputy General Director, have said that there has been a serious escape in their staff due to the heavy workload of work, that they have been forced to protect even the current employees, says: Let there be some changes in both the personnel regime and the rights of equity and the financial rights. We now see from here that there is no management and there is no problem with employees. Our citizens still have problems and problems with their deeds. Everyone who goes to the deed offices faces it. The main reason for this situation is that the number of employees is inadequate and that the current employees do not have sufficient financial rights. Overwork fees have been cut, they've been stalling for years with the promise of a return capital fee, and they're under serious strain. On top of that, staff members, such as regional assistant managers, branch managers, experts, are being pressured, even faced with task changes; even receiving their titles, following them through social media, so they continue to face some Mobbbing practices. All of this reduces and corrupts both business efficiency and work peace, naturally motivation. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, the situation of these victims is being monitored by our high-profile party, and I especially want to stress that. According to its service standards, the agency intended to conduct between 1,200 and 1,500 transactions against an officer to combat bribery and reduce business volume, but there are some employees who passed 3,500 procedures in 2014. The agency has continued to set a false target without accurately identifying the volume of this work and the potential of the officer, and has rewarded employees more than two stories above its own goal. Now, I'm afraid that without questioning how this was dealt with, the institution entered into such an application without even thinking about the creation of some discrimination among employees. Dear friends, again, the institution has a strategic plan of 2010-2014. It's an interesting document that only says "strategic plan" on the cover, which has nothing to do with the strategic plan when you look at its contents. This report has been audited by the Court, and according to the criteria for good identification, the Court has concluded that goals and indicators are insufficient, and the institution has been severely stimulated by the Court. According to this plan by the General Directorate: the implementation of audits and training activities for licensed offices and increasing the quality of service by 1 per cent per year, but interestingly, this aim and prediction did not hold up. As for the reason, because by himself, I mean Court of Investigation 10. According to his office's decision December 27, 2012, the activities of the licensed map and cadastro engineers' offices were also halted by the general directorate, which set the target that I just described. I mean, isn't that interesting? You target this strategic plan, then you go with your own hand to the State, and you stop these offices from operating. There's an interesting strategy here, and it's continuing the strategy, the general manager again. We still don't hear any explanation for the future of nearly 400 map engineers, 2,000 technical staff. They act at the gates, crawling through the gates of the General Manager. I'm afraid we're also seeing a very sloppy, puzzle-wise report on the April 2014 activity report, which clearly states what the directorate does or doesn't do. These reports show that, unfortunately, in the 61st and 62st governments, not only has there been a single regulation on the autonomy rights of the directorate, but he has not been careful or careful with his own staff. Dear lawmakers, I salute our General Assembly once again with respect, with the hope that these services that Turkey needs will be renegotiated by next spring.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0110par0035	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0111par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the budget of the Ministry of Education for 2015. I salute you all. Yes, a large portion of the government's budget for the National Ministry of Education in 2015 has been earmarked for about 42 billion liras, 78 per cent for staff costs only; there is not enough resources for investment, education, development, planning, and it is unlikely that work will be done with this budget after that. Although the budget is seen as an increase in education, 78 per cent of the national education budget is earmarked for personnel expenses. In 1997-1998, education spent 30 per cent on investments from the National Education budget, 17 per cent on investments in 2002, and 8.86 per cent on investments by the Justice and Development Party's ruling in 2015, so it is very, very low. According to research by many research agencies, the mandatory education has increased to 12 years, and 3 million additional students have been included in the system in particular. How will they be satisfied with this budget? Where, in particular, will the money needed to build a classroom? And there are many schools that have double education. We have classes available that actually reach the 80s. In particular, we have schools in rural areas that have been deprived of the 1950s, and with this money, the government needs to sit down and think about how to solve these problems. These needs need to be met, and given the 2015 budget, they seem to be facing a major failure. As a result of the closing of the classrooms, we can also talk about this place where the process of turning it into a school is not successful, it is still a mystery. When we look at OECD and UNESCO reports, we can say that the average of Turkey's education budget, in particular, is far below the OECD and UNESCO numbers, in terms of illegal domestic product. For developing countries, the figure should be 6%, and in OECD countries, we can say that this number is much lower than that number in Turkey, which we can say is 4.23 per cent. We also want to share here that Turkey ranked 96/th among 144 countries in the study of the World Economic Forum's Global Competition Report 2014-2015, in line with the quality of primary school education, 89 (89) in line with the quality of education in terms of science and mathematics education, and it ranked 98/7th in terms of quality of school management. In the meantime, there was a question that had been done, which had come up with a lot of bubbles, which had been blown out of proportion, that if he had focused on the quality of education, how we could improve that quality, maybe he would have achieved a lot more different results and put the cost of facing facts ahead of AKP. In particular, we want to stress that Mr. Prime Minister used the following expression in the 2015 budget: "No ore is more valuable than man. " There are so many questions to ask the Prime Minister in the face of this sentence. Then why hasn't a certain systematic, sustainable education policy been implemented in 12 years? Why are there five Ministers of National Education who are doing different programs? And unemployment among young people has still risen to 25 percent in the 20 per cent, college graduates. And in particular, did the Prime Minister hear the screams of young people who had entered the KPSS, who had not been assigned, as an assessment of the ore? In particular, how could the ministers, senior bureaucrats, and executives respond when their relatives and relatives were appointed without a test? And right now, one of the most important problems is still on the consciences as manager's appointments. Here, in particular, all school principals were displaced, and their qualifications were appointed not in the interests of the officer, but in the interest of the government, as assistant union members as managers. Here, in the new Turkey of AKP, the test was replaced by a torpedo, a favour of justice, and instead of a degree, party membership has been sought. Now, there are so many problems that we want to ask Mr. Davutoglu who evaluated these managers, who prepared the forms, and now -- as a result of the proceedings -- how the decision to extradite the courts should be carried out. When we look at the union distribution of the number of managers going to the evaluation, we can say that favoring and dissolution are clearly seen. EDUCATION-BIRTH-SEN has taken more than 20,000 exams, while 61.81 per cent of them have succeeded, while 7.800 people from EDUCATION-BIR-SEN-SEN are entering, only 11 per cent succeeding. Of course, that's how appliances work now. Again, a fax that we have received is particularly related to 1,709 branch managers who were appointed by the Ministry of National Education in April 2014. The court's rulings had cancelled them. Minister of National Education, Mr. Nabi Avcı has made a statement on the TV programme specifically that the shootings will be cancelled, then the calculations will be re-declared. But here we ask: Will the appointment of 1,709 branch managers be cancelled and re-assigned? Do you think I could close down the assignment branch manager app and increase my bid? When will the calendar be announced regarding the appointments you intend to renew? Right now, many eyes await the decision of the Ministry of National Education, and we would like to ask you right now, Mr. Nabi Avcı, is this all a coincidence or is it spontaneous, or is it intentional? We've brought up the teacher's salary all the time, but I want to make it very short again. In particular, close to 30 percent of them are moonlighting, and we want to compare this to teachers who work in OECD countries very briefly. Especially when we compare it to OECD countries, we want to give you that teachers in our country have a much higher mandatory working hours, and their income is particularly at nearly half the OECD average. Again, Turkey is ranked last to nine in the OECD countries according to the level of income of teachers, and in particular, in terms of student numbers, we can say that Turkey's average exceeds 20. And in 2003, Mr. Prime Minister of the period, we wish that my teacher would not be able to provide his own finances by selling handkerchiefs at the market. Teacher, how will I pay the rent this month? Let him not be anxious. We want to see his expressions grow and endure. And we also want to point out that the hours that the Prime Minister of that period gave us 11 or 12 years ago were still at those times, no improvements, no progress. There are teachers who can't be assigned. Again, we'd like to remind you once again that these should be assigned within the framework of schedules, within the framework of plans. Again, with a big fuss about this power... they took a TEOG test to ensure that injustices would no longer be done, but we found out that they also screwed up this TEOG test. And the last time we heard from Mr. Secretary that the online appointments have been dropped, but we can also say that they're working on them right now. We can see in writing that there is no material in any document. We also want to share with you that a student with 440 points has settled into a 140-point high school, that children have settled in a school 120km away from home, and that families are actually perperized. The absence of school guidance services is still a large mountain in front of the educational system, where bilateral education schools start at 6 pm and close at 7:30 p.m. and need to be searched for answers. Of course, here, at work, most of the students leave home without breakfast and can't even eat lunch. We also want to point out that AKP is responsible for changing the education system with different tests instead of questioning the excess of the empty courses and why academic achievement is so low. When we get to the FATIH Project, we don't know what level the project of the lion is still on, the project of the network will solve all the problems of education. Actually, they don't know themselves. On November 19, 2010, the Prime Minister mentioned the FATHIH Project, which was to be completed in three years, but we can also report that the project that should have been completed in three years did not go a length of barley. The number of tenders has been four, but still no results. I wonder how long it's going to be. In particular, the project, shown on the project page 2013, could be said to take up to three or four years. And we say, for God's sake, we want someone to give us clear and consistent information about this project. And again, we don't see, we don't know, we don't hear, we don't see, we don't know, we want to rephrase the Kurdish schools where the AKP administration's Ministry of Education and other ruling officials are trying to miss out on. We have confirmation from the press that these schools are still in training. We also share that an anti-constitutional practice was carried out by the power and carried out with secret support. Because the Minister of National Education had reported that he had no knowledge of them, especially with an answer to the question we asked during the budget talks. In fact, a few hours after the minister's statement, the Web site reported that these schools continued very successfully. What kind of freak is that? Now, no one sees it as the result of negotiations with a baby killer, no one talks, no one hears it, this power. Highly valued MPs gathered in Antalya on December 2nd and 6th. As it was collected, many artificial bubbles were created. In particular, in accordance with promises made to separatists and baby killers, explain the condition of the so-called solution process's road map being imposed, or we will explain it. As a sign of the threat, agendas, artificial agendas began to move around like this. Here, Mr. President, there are those who do not want to be taught, to be taught, to be taught by the Ottomans. It's a great danger. Whether they like it or not, Ottoman will be taught and taught in this country. Again, Mr. Prime Minister chooses students who want to, who don't. That's the offer. What's with the history allergy? What is this hostility of culture? He answered in such an aggressive manner. There's a problem of style here, there's a problem of expression, there's a problem of vision, and there's a moral problem because it's a situation where the Ottoman course, which is brought up as a recommendation, is included in the curriculum. We especially want to emphasize that the education system should not be used to politics. Currently, these lessons are already mandatory and must be chosen by nearly 50,000 students. We, the National Movement Party, have already written on our party programme for years that the Ottoman language should be given as an elective. Of course, the students and Ottomanian will also find a cultural comparison to the history, culture, law, values of that period. We also want to emphasize that today's importance will allow students to learn what punishment they were inflicting on those who were involved in corruption and bribery at the time. Education needs to be looked at as a whole because 11 people die in a car accident a day. In 11 months 1,723 workers died in a business accident, and in particular, 240 women were murdered in 11 months. In five years, the crime rate for children who have been encouraged to commit crimes such as theft, extortion, drug abuse, manslaughter, murder, begging has increased by 100 percent, and again, substance abuse is the plague of the age, which we can now say has increased 45 percent. So, what quality level are you going to explain these numbers with? Is it because of the awareness of this ore that it is constantly handed over to the exponential? He will turn and turn, and one day he will come, and the account will turn, and he will not be forgotten. And in short, when we consider the decisions made in this case very short, we see that the ruling side is actually recommended to change the decisions made two years ago, three years ago. The Teacher Academy is one of them. The number of lessons, the number of classes per week, is one of them. ▪ It is recommended to say too much and go down the road of reduction. Again, religious culture and moral knowledge -- we're not opposed to the introduction of moral and religious culture lessons, but we're stressing that concepts should be determined correctly and that they should be done in the right place, at the right time, with the right people. In fact, we emphasize here the need for these lessons to be especially supported by the concepts of theft, stealing, sin, especially with current examples. Values education must be taught from kindergarten, filled and done by well-trained teachers. At our offer, we thank power. In particular, we would like to propose that one of the issues be included in the study of these values as an example of the December 17th-25 December week of anti-corruption and bribery. Speaking from the AKP, our friend has made a statement that the custody of February 28th has been eliminated. The AKP has formatted morality, is trying to format everything, and right now, we're giving examples to those who just mentioned the custody of February 28th that we can now talk about the civil custody of AKP's Justice and Development Party. Because thousands of years of truth, the image of the Turk, painted with honesty, was really messed up, all the values of society were tried to be destroyed. His and his concepts have been emptied and contaminated. Yes, we want to emphasize from here that the idea will be raised by the founder of the schools and the founder of the Republic of Turkey, Ataturk. When the course of democracy and citizenship is lifted, do you want to be raised as students who don't talk, don't question, don't object to the current, present administration? Because right now, over 150,000 broadcast bans have been imposed in four years. And again, finally, we want to point out that for years, the light bulb was lit with illegal electricity, and now it's come out that the electricity bill is too heavy for our country, not to be paid. And I'd like to thank you for that from here.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0112par0068	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. Kütahya MP Alim Illum... Here you go, Mr. Light. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 14 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0113par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the High School Board and universities. I hereby salute you and our fellow citizens who follow us. At the beginning of my words, in the 17-25 December week of anti-corruption and bribery, which covers its 1st year today, which includes a nine-day period, I would like to express my regret that the ruling party manager, those who are no different from our relatives and our fellow citizens, today are walking around this country in no way in the past three hundred and sixty-five days, no matter what happens. In the nine days covering December 17-25th, the programme organised by the National Movement Party headquarters in nine counties of our country states that we will share corruption, bribery and irregularities with all our citizens this week, and I would also like to say that we strongly condemn operations against justice, police and media members by violating the AKP's rule of law, in order to close the matter. I thank all our citizens who have fought against the rights and resources of the orphan, the orphan, the country, and the nation, and I wish them success in their fight after that. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the 131st Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey of Turkey (November 7, 1982) includes provisions for higher education institutions, universities, higher education institutions, Article 131, higher education institutions, and Turkish Armed Forces and law enforcement institutions, which are subject to special provisions. Similarly, the Law on Higher Education, 2547, includes basics and provisions for the work and functioning of universities. Although these regulations, which include detailed provisions on universities and professors, have been stated as the framework for executives to abide by, as opposed to these open provisions in the Constitution, and their statement that the AKP would be lifted before coming to power, only during the AKP administrations, were forgotten, as were other promises to our citizens, only in 2004, to establish the Higher Education Council and to draft budgets in 2015. What happened during the last 12 years of AKP governments, I would like to briefly share with you. Although the number of universities has been doubled as a public university and tripled with the foundation universities, unfortunately there have not been the same increases in the administrative and academic staff numbers and budgetary share of both universities and universities. Unfortunately, commercial gains have come first in many of the foundation universities. In an order based on the principles of modern education, manpower that did not grow to suit the needs of the nation and the country, the manpower that we have grown, unfortunately, has been dealt with with with many injustices and irregularities, as it has not been properly assessed. While hundreds of thousands of young people have entered KPSS, waiting to get a job in the state staff with high scores, AKP's ministers, MPs, bureaucrats and politicians' children have been assigned to the civil service staff without taking these tests. When the questions and wrongful appointments were brought up by us in these exams, the president and members of the OSCE and the government investigated the allegations and turned a blind eye to these irregularities rather than punishing those responsible, but today the same responsible had to admit that the test questions had been stolen, and they had to break the crime into parallel construction and try to get rid of responsibility. During the AKP administrations, the SEC and university administrations, unfortunately, had no opinion on the problems that their staff, students, and graduates were facing, even with a press release, were unable to share their views with the public. At this time, unfortunately, AKP officials, who talk about national will at every turn, chose to ignore the will of university professors and appoint candidates who would only work for their own direction, regardless of how many votes they received. The SEC unfortunately had to take sides with the choices made by the rectors among the three candidates reported at the dean's appointment. In this recent period, many professors can't be suspended from their duties, regardless of the circumstances of our Constitution. The university professors and their employees, unfortunately, have been exposed to their political opinion by allegations of being tagged. The regulations for improving the rights of university professors who haven't been on the government's agenda for years have finally been brought to the agenda of the Supreme Assembly a month ago, thus partially improving the issue as of this month, and thus dropped from the agenda. However, these improvements have been excluded from foreign national professors and law enforcement professors and administrative staff. It's injustice, it's injustice. Although the victims of additional indicators and autonomy of university assistants and legal advisors have repeatedly been expressed and promised, unfortunately, it has not been resolved so far. According to the 50th article (d) of Law 2547 in our universities, many of our young people, who have had a master's degree and a doctorate and were actually employed as researchers, unfortunately, were abandoned by the time they completed their master's studies. Our young ones must be employed in our universities and these sacrifices must be removed immediately. The academic staff serving in our universities were unfortunately discriminated against in their appointment to the positions they deserved, even though they provided the rights of upgrades and appointment measures, due to the arbitrary practices of the ESK and university rectors, thus leading many faculty to either leave the university or to go to other universities. On the basis of a question proposal, I would like to share with you the data from the Minister of National Education's answer in the May 1, 2014 article: ▪21/10/2013, the number of staff members of our universities who are available and waiting to be assigned to the professor's staff are 908 people, the assistant professor, the professor, the teacher, the student, the number of experts and researchers. But, unfortunately, they're still professors in the research staff. Although he completed his Ph.D., the number of lecturers waiting to be appointed as assistant professors is 4,584, when the total number of victims are added to each other -- 6,758 people. However, as of the same date, a total of 6,291 professors at our universities, 8,018 professors, 9.561 assistant professor staffs were suspended as blanks, so a total of 23,871 staff were not used. So I'm asking you, what could possibly be the reason for the four-story hold-up in our universities when there's a staff waiting on one side? Just this example shows the state of our universities. These are the government's staff, and the faculty waiting for the staff are the precious sons of the great Turkish nation. I'm sure this painting is in a much worse position today. Because in the last year, after the December 17th-25th events, like all state institutions, our universities have been registered as pro-AKP and anti- AKP, and the postings have been managed by one hand. In our universities in recent years, a number of professors have been able to have a staff by bringing injustice and irregularities to the courts. Unfortunately, no response has ever been received to the number of lawsuits that our university employees have already filed in order to address their victims, to the staff who have left the universities, to the disciplinary investigations. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid that in recent years, the political pressures on our NGOs and universities have been increasing, while the number of our universities who have been dealing with allegations of corruption and irregularity has been increasing rapidly. I'd just like to bring this to your attention with a few examples published in some media outlets. The Court reports of 2014 included the assessments of over-expensive spending in some of our universities, that the control system was not established in salary and additional tuition payments, and that there were irregular expenditures in violation of Law Law Law No 5018. Despite the fact that a university in 2013 has spent 36 million, 813, 450 TL, and has been identified by investigators who have been given additional lessons on staff leave, report or duty days, and have been submitted to reports, unfortunately these findings have been scissorsed by the Court executives who have been auditing for the Supreme Assembly. Some of our universities have been named after a very serious claim, such as the allocation of land, the immovable era, and so on. Some AKP politicians, executives and businessmen were thus provided with political and economic ramifications, and unfortunately our universities were mediated into these corruption and irregularities. Dear MPs, I'd like to sum up the question of our universities, which are our country's distinguished institutions, and what we're going to do to our young people, who are the guarantee of our future, and what we're going to have to do to the PDC, which is responsible for our universities, and what we're going to do with the nationalist Action Party's election declarations: One is that colleges must be brought to a level that can compete with world universities, to become educational institutions that grow the manpower our country needs, produce science and technology by doing research, lead social development, solve problems through scientific methods, and compete with world universities. 2) A private university should be encouraged by creating an effective quality assessment and audit system, which should be specialized in the potentials of the universities. 3) In order for university professors and scientists to be raised abroad, universities must be specialized in their master's and doctoral programmes, and the necessary technical and economic infrastructure must be built for this. 4) The higher education system must be built into a more democratic and productive structure, and the necessary cooperation and integration between student, institution and academic staff. 5) The Board of Higher Education, which is the Higher Education Board, should be transformed into a structure responsible for regulation, manipulation, coordination, planning, and control, and universities should be able to be autonomous and accountable administratively and financially. 6) In universities, the chancellor's elections should be tied to democratic grounds and appointed by the candidate president, who has received more than 50 per cent of the two candidates who voted in the second place after the election process, which will be carried out in two stages. A university entrance exam must be lifted and instead be provided with a placement based on effective instruction in primary and secondary education. The appointment of deans at our universities must be made and carried out directly as a result of the elections with the participation of professors and other employees. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is imperative that our young ones meet an educational system equipped with our national and spiritual values, adopted scientific approach, supported by social and cultural events. As much as we know with these feelings and thoughts that the budget of 2015 will not contribute to our SEC and universities as we expect, I wish you all the best again.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0114par0102	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0115par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0114par0104	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0115par0105	Mr. President, this tape isn't being removed during our talks, and it's the only one that's being held there. It's half shot, or it's being pulled out of the back.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0116par0106	It's not set for that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0115par0107	In all previous talks, that tape is removed after the first introduction, but now it's not removed, just so they don't show the slogan "No to Corruption" on December 17th-25. Look, Reza Sarraf has given up his case in the lawsuit against Mr. Riza Sarraf, our President-General and Vice President, in the case of Rıza Sarraf. Therefore, those who don't show it there are probably offended by it. For your information.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0117par0110	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0118par0111	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0117par0112	Yes, Mr. Aydın?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0118par0113	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you in particular: look, of course, since yesterday, the bench has been used as a showroom since the day before yesterday. We have respect for ideas, we are open to criticism, but where in the Civil Code does it say that such things are going to happen on the stand, especially to the Court, I would like to ask you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0119par0114	Is there any indication that it won't happen?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0120par0115	There is no corruption in the Civil Code, nor is corruption allowed in the Civil Law.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0118par0116	You get up, you explain your opinion, you do your reviews, but this isn't a playroom, this isn't a theater.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0121par0117	Your own congressman put up a big sign there.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0118par0118	Ideas are controversial, spoken, public opinion appreciates, but we express that we do not approve of the use of the bench with such things and that it is not in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0122par0119	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0123par0120	There was no objection when they put them up, you put in big signs.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0124par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0122par0122	Mr. Altay, what is your request?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0124par0123	Mr. Group Deputy President, I object to the comparison of Parliament as a substitute.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0125par0124	E, don't do that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0124par0125	Since the establishment of this Parliament, various visual materials have been used on this bench.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0125par0126	It's relevant...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0124par0127	Yes, very relevant, today is December 17th.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0125par0128	I don't suppose there's anyone in this Parliament who's taking his clothes off.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0124par0129	However, I also warn the Parliamentary TV director that the Parliamentary TV director has no right to this kind of joy in the Assembly's broadcast, that he is in a bad mood, that he is in a bad way, that he is in a bad mood! [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] I'll buy it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0126par0132	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut... Here you go, Mr. Cloud. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirteen minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0127par0137	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in the budget of the National Ministry of Education, about the SNS budget. I salute your high council. Be like the dead in anger, like the sea in tolerance. I celebrate the Lord, and remember with mercy, and express the need of all mankind for the way he has gone, and for the light that he has lighted. From the day of its establishment, good lawmakers have lost credibility with AKP authorities -- the OSCE, one of the institutions whose tests have been criticised, at least criticised, failed, and not discussed in public -- until the AKP came to power -- have lost credibility in public, it has become controversial. This is all because of the partisan appointment of the AKP government to all institutions in order to become staffed, the appointment made not to value their driver's license, their knowledge, their ability, but their loyalty, which is the first reason for failure in all institutions. Gökhan Çetinsaya took a worker from İstanbul Bahçeşehir University and made him chief of chief of staff. He later appointed this chief of staff as branch manager at Hacettepe University. I'm talking about these partisan assignments. The same SEC chief has resigned the security police and appointed him Secretary General at the University of Sheik Sheikh Edebali. The reasons for dissolution, decomposition in this entire institution, not only do I give authority and authority to those who are competent, but the institution falls into my hands, as we call it. I'm afraid it's because of your understanding. This IS a very special institution. This institution requires transparency, but it's isolated from transparency, locked inside a box of suspects. The personnel who were brought to the jobs they didn't deserve, were then made to do questionable things, involved in them, and paid for them. Now, it's very difficult to say from here, but the KPSS exam is entering institutions. After the travel events, let the government, please, take a look at those documents taken to the Ministry of Transport with KPSS scores. Let those who have given those documents examine them whether they have taken exams, whether they have books, or if they have answers. There are some very serious allegations. This is a government, not to blame the minister, but to consider the existence of a gang there. While there are many people who have received high marks, who have not been able to come to these tasks, although they deserve it, I express their claims that they have been wrongfully appointed by those who have been wrongfully devouring them, brought there, and brought there to be a community structure, in solidarity, in favor of one another. In a country's institutions, rules must be enforced by law, or those institutions and the country will be severely damaged. Although the prosecutor has decided not to follow up on corruption and bribery charges December 17-25, the Turkish nation will pursue these allegations until the end of the prosecution. Someone say: "Oh, we're saved. Don't let them say it." Time passes so quickly, those who are taken, those who are given, those who give, those who carry, those who move, those who listen, and those who speak, will surely answer in the presence of history. In the Global Corruption Index, China and Turkey are the highest-rated countries in corruption and the highest-rated countries this year. In the index, our country was ranked to 64. Those who acted together yesterday call each other thieves, coupgers, corrupts. You're all accomplices, people who get jobs based on forged documents, who get a degree from unopened universities, who are assigned to jobs that they don't deserve, who get a degree from colleges that don't open. They're elephants, citizen slaves, and this building won't last, precious deputies. SNSI is taking tests, depositing about 1 million student fees to the 2014 LYS, and wants to take the test. These students are not allowed to take the examination because the approval process was incomplete on the PSYM page of 64,494. Dear lawmakers, the quality of education is so low. Talk to a high school graduate in Anatolia. He doesn't even know how to write a petition, he's got a lot of disputable high school graduates. Level's incredibly low. These people -- this is the first time they've applied in the online environment this year, they're getting SNSI -- they haven't been able to replace it on the Internet, or they haven't been able to do it, and they've eaten up all those people's rights. S.E.A.P.I. is hiding, hiding, not explaining, but somehow it's being learned. Wrong questions are being tried to hide in this secrecy. The CSI has no right to do so. It's not a farm, it's not a private company, it's a serious government institution... The citizen will see the questions he's been asked, the right answers, so he'll know where he's wrong, where he's missing. At this point where the institution is brought in, there are no more safe exams, no more questions taken out, and I assure you that the outcome will be just, and no one will have any faith. Of the 2 million students taking LYS exams, nearly 900,000 of them received zero points from the 420,000 students' math tests from science. Do you see the patheticness of his training? With what knowledge, what manners do you call the age of gold in the AKP's education? We've set aside this amount of funds, we've spent the most on national education in the budget. You've seen their statements in the figures given by my valued representatives. Looking for 2002... Today, only half of the budget's share of investments is earmarked for national education. The growing population, the growing needs can't be met with this budget. No quality in education, no success. Among the OECD countries, Turkey is ranked third in 34 countries, unfortunately, in the ranking of the level of education in 34 countries. There are students who have finished college who don't know the questions about Turkey. Because, children, students, the system that changes every year has been flooded with programs that have been changed every year. Teachers can't even respond to programs, they don't know what decisions to make at community meetings. Now, in spite of all that, it's being held, it's being said that students are being offered an elective, mandatory Ottoman lesson in imam-nephews. It is a royal language consisting of Ottoman, Arabic, Persian and Turkish. The ancient Turkish expression, of course, is written in the Arabic alphabet, which can't be read now, because Ottomans are very difficult to learn. Those alphabetic letters can be learned, but learning his statements is only a specialty. It's a union that imposes on the Ministry, not the educators who impose it on all schools. I think with the Minister's resistance, it's been tried to prevent such a large purchase. However, a trade union that has infiltrated all of the Ministry's heads, its authorities, I assure you, is more active than the Minister; the hall is different from the minister's proposal, the officials vote in favour of the union. So, the Ministry, by the Minister, has a policy that the AKP must act within that policy. Dear lawmakers, with this decline in education, it concerns the entire nation. Our history is not only Ottoman, but why is it not offered in schools, where they choose to study the Newsey Scrolls? Our writings here, the Newsey Scrolls, the reading of Orhun Books, if they're eager to read the stones in the graveyards, someone will have mercy there, but history doesn't just come from there, our historical savings need to be learned within 5,000 years of Turkish history. December 17-25 was declared the week of the fight against corruption and bribery, which will be celebrated annually by the National Movement Party. It's ethical, it's a subject that has to be the leading subject in education, especially in terms of education, in terms of dealing with the values of society, fighting evil, finding truth, morality, beauty. There's also a legal proposal for our party. Today, for today's sake, we wear badges. It is also an important duty for all of our people to take a stand against the corrupter, against the wrong-doer, against the corrupter, against the corrupter, against the whole community, and not to be silent in the face of injustice. With these opportunities, and in this way, I ask that the budget be useful to our ministry, to have productive results, to give our students a light to our teachers who are waiting for the appointment, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0128par0156	Thank you, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0129par0157	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0128par0158	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0129par0164	Mr. President, today on December 17th, we are protesting the protection of corrupt and corrupt people by the law and judgment of executives, as the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0128par0165	Your protest is understood, sir. Please take your seats.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0130par0167	Mr. President, please continue, sir. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0131par0189	Congressmans, it's time for the Republican People's Party Group to speak. First speaker, Çanakkale MP Mustafa Serdar Soydan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Soydan.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0132par0194	Pick him up, put yours in his place!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0133par0195	Don't worry! Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a promise regarding the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Before we talk about the environment, I want to talk about how the government treats its immediate environment because of the December 17th-25 week of anti-corruption and bribery. For 12 years, millions of dollars have been reset in the homes of ministers, bureaucrats. With no shoes on Uncle Recep's feet who lost his child in the mines, you spent 1.5 quadrillion on taxes from employees, pensioners, and tradesmen, making a so-called hall of honor with 1,150-some rooms. You've made the biggest waste in the history of the Republic. It is not the glory of the presidents, of the prime ministers' palaces, but of the employee, the pensioner's standard of living in that country. It is not the increase of palaces, mansions, but the enlargement of bread and the distribution of justice. The mark of reputation is not that the president of the Diabetes Affairs, who emulates the president and knows that Islam is against waste and luxury, takes a trillion power vehicles. Let's not forget that all over the world, those who stole people's money destroyed democracy and freedom to swim in a pool of bribes and corruption and created an imaginary enemy. Congressmans, today we're going to talk about life itself, the environment, the land, the water and the air. We're going to talk about how you can't create healthy people and healthy societies without creating healthy nature.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0134par0201	Where's the Minister of Environment?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0133par0202	The Minister's statement -- Mr. Minister, we couldn't see but surely hear -- is the main duty of the Ministry of Environment, which we discussed, to prevent pollution, to improve environmental standards, to increase the environmental sensitivity and awareness of society as economic and social development is being achieved. The Minister is celebrating, and I agree with his definition of duty. What does the Minister say? With thousands of staff and billions of budgets, we will increase the environmental sensitivity of society, he says. I'd like to give you a few examples of how the Minister increases environmental sensitivity. You didn't do your duty when 6,000 olive trees were slaughtered in Soma Yırca village. The tyranny of the villagers who fought to protect their nature, their bread, their land in their village has been a black mark on our country's history. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, thanks to you, our citizens' environmental sensitivity has been increased in Yrca. Members of parliament, one of the Ministry's duties is to avoid pollution and improve environmental standards while economic development is being achieved. Minister, I'd like to give you a few examples of how to improve environmental standards. In Manisa Soma, thermal plants scatter poison; newborn children suffer from asthma and bronchitis. The cancer rate has increased to four times the average in Turkey. The Gediz basin, a major contribution to agricultural production in Turkey, is threatened. The Turgutian Mount Play is in the nickel mine, where there is a terrible environmental massacre in the open lyclic method. The floods of acid threaten geography, which stretches from Manisa to İzmir. It is stripped of the green of the mountain of the bush, and turned into a dirty yellow in the middle of the caravan. The pollution of the Babylonian Dilovah continues to have a negative effect on life. Human deaths have begun. Turkey's cancer rate has doubled. What's the government doing? Supposedly prevents pollution, increases environmental standards. Congressmans, I want to tell you how the Ministry has increased environmental awareness in Çanakkale and around it, protected and improved the environment. The thermal plants that produce in a very small geography in Çanakkale and mining and unplanned industrialization in the Kaz Mountains change the climate of the region day after day. Our province of Çanakkale is losing the holy land, its water, its air, and its land, where hundreds of thousands shed their blood for the cause of the country. Chemical waste in the water, in the soil, in the air and in the water of the Plain of Biga, the agricultural production centre of Çanakkale. The geese want cyanide in their veins. Balıkesir-Chanakkale 1/100. In the 5,000-scale Environmental Order Plan, the demands of the people of the region were ignored and the objections were ignored. By allowing what has been done and what has happened, the ministry has increased its so-called environmental sensitivity, preventing pollution. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for opening the way for the rant vampires in Soma, in Turgutlu, in Dilova, in the Kaz Mountains and in Biga. Like the President, your green love spread throughout the country. What do you think about when it comes to green? The green one you destroyed, the one you tried to destroy, or the green one in the shoe boxes? Mr. Secretary, our forests with lungs all over our country have spoken, screaming, asking you to do your duty. Don't watch any more of the killings of angry rant vampires. I'd like to give you a historical warning today: just do your duty. Really increase environmental awareness, protect the environment, protect the environment. Members of parliament, 220,000 trees for Bartin-Amasra, 2700 thousand trees for the thermal plant in the army-Fatsa, 254,000 trees for the HES and dam, 5 million for the Artvin-Cerattepe, 250,000 trees for the Mersin-Akgöynuk plant, 2m700 thousand trees for the Istanbul 3th bridge and airport, 2m700 thousand trees for the Çanakkale-Biga Peninsula, 360 thousand trees for the thermal plant, 1 million for the Manisa-Tal Mountain nickel mines, and 1 million for the Manisa-Tal Mountain. Support this resistance, Mr. Secretary. All over our country, our grown forest trees are under threat. Our country's forest ecosystem, which cleans up 50 percent of air pollution, is collapsing. We have millions of forest trees all over our country under the siege of Rant vampires. Mr. Secretary, you will either lift this siege and go down in history as a true environmental minister, or there will be no more Rant vampires on the dusty pages of history when you disappear. Now we plant ten layers of saplings for every grown tree that is cut down. He doesn't believe the story. And you don't want to be a part of these fairy tales. Our people know how lacking in wisdom and science these words are. Mr. Secretary, you will protect, protect, then plant the saplings. Remember, our true riches are our tree and vegetation; our poverty, our deserts, our barren land. Congressmans, we must defend the concept of sustainable development, not development, but peace with nature." We need to adopt the approach that man is part of, not the ecological balance. In order to minimize environmental and ecological risks, to contribute to sustainable development, we must implement the green economic model. We need to increase public investments and incentives so the renewable energy potential can be used at the highest level. We need to expand the use of clean energy sources, such as wind, sun, and geothermal. To combat global warming, we must focus on the use of public transportation by sea, railway and subway. We need to open the way for sustainable development where growth and production are balanced and we need to leave a green mark for future generations. We must dominate a new philosophy of life, a new morality of life. And that understanding is not about consuming more, but more about sharing and being happy. Congressmans, I'd like to shout once again in December 17th-25 in the week of the fight against corruption and bribery. In 12 years, not only have the loyal nation's millions of dollars, democracy and freedoms been reset; the future, the water he drinks, the air he breathes, the land he feeds, has been wiped out, slaughtered, destroyed for millions of dollars. In the High Parliament, on the stand of the nation, I protest the lives of all our noble and honorable citizens, and I offer greetings.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0135par0215	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan. Here you go, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0136par0219	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism of 2015. Turkey has been the first in the world in its internal migration over the past 60 years. In this poor migration, which resulted in false policies, first placement has been over-planned, unsupervised, ugly, and catastrophic insecurities. The prime minister boasted that the population of the cities during our administration increased by 9 points to 73 per cent. But the unemployment rate the prime minister has forgotten has also exceeded 10%. For example, the number of non-assigned teachers has been 300,000. 50 teachers committed suicide, we submitted a motion as the Republican People's Party for 40,000 teachers in the February appointment, but it was rejected by you. The government, knowingly, did nothing to make the vision of urbanization and settlement of the Ninth and Tenth Development Plan come true. The government did not meet the recommendations of the European Environment Agency, the European Union Commission, the Bristol Covenant, the Aalborg Condition, CEMAT, the ESDP texts and the text of the Earthquake Fair and Urbanization Fair, which we signed with the ceremony. On the contrary, over the past 13 years, the situation has been seen and apologised in the face of the faster disappearance of cities' physical, cultural and social quality and habitats, the distortion of their silhouettes. Migration to cities has been the engine of the construction industry, but by the way, the enormous development rants have been harvested, the harvested rants have created altars that feed politics. What did the special residency commissions say about the development plan to achieve a viable, safe and healthy settlement? ▪ Reduce inequalities between regions and settlements. Protect and improve the natural and cultural heritage. Fix the quality of life and space. Cut down on urban risks. Give social gender equality. Bring in the competition. Make balanced, complementary, multicentered and sustainable plans. Dear lawmakers, don't look at the goal of creating cities and brand cities in AKP's programme. Despite the great migration, there are over a million homes in the cities today. The cities have lost their identities, the zoning is ugly, unplanned, and the disaster is abandoned to a multi-story slum. The high-rises in the cities have begun, but the high-rise earthquake regulations still don't exist, Mr. Secretary knows, it's been transmitted to him many times. Mr. Secretary has recently warned of the quality of safe iron and cement. I'm sure Mr. Secretary doesn't know the number we haven't been able to make, and we don't know what those huge skyscrapers, buildings, high buildings are going to be, and Mr. Secretary doesn't know because of that iron and cement thing. See, sustainable urbanization policies are being implemented around the world. We're still trying to implement short-term and profit-oriented urbanization policies, which are still coercionally hinting at organised networks. The sustainable urban development process includes all structured environments, natural environments, social and economic elements that affect urban development in a related way. The process envisions the integration of economic and social development for environmental protection and improvement. This process must be carried out by the participation of the public and local initiatives. However, the decisions have not yielded the participation of local governments or local initiatives. On the contrary, local initiatives are being harassed. See how these zoning jobs are done in Turkey? I will give you one example of hundreds of examples: İ of KipTAŞ. Y. with E from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. B. They're talking. E. B. He says: 'Look, brother, do you know what they're doing now? Look, blessed Ramadan day. Y. Brother, you can't afford him. B. "He's trying to get us to do all kinds of dirty work. Look, he opened the Bird's Tongue in the "Kushdili Meadow"-building. He phoned me 20 times, saying, "Confirm this place." If he wants to build it, he'll do it himself, and he'll confirm it. No, he's not saying it's a natural site or anything. Look, he's building and he's leaving." Dear lawmakers, this is what the AKP's government understands about city, urbanization, development and planning, creating a habitable place. The largest zoning raid in the history of the Republic continues at its great speed in cities and with its very bad products. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, established under Code 648, has forgotten its original work and has become mayor of Turkey. This ministry has caused corruption and poverty in the last 13 years. He also prepared an environment for the creation of a Rant class based on construction and construction. The zoning decisions have been centralized and have made authoritarian structure and a means of financing the separatist political mechanism. Local governments' licenses and planning powers began to be declared by the Cityal Transformation Law 648 and 6306. The ministry has made the TOKI (TİKI) a monopoly. The coastal plans have turned to looting and looting on the coast of resen. For example, the matter of Urla villas, public assets, extortion auctions, the environment and legislation for the removal of property rights for citizens. The deed, for your information, is no longer a security of property. The Council of Culture and Natural Beings has been separated. The Office of Natural Beings has passed on to the Ministry. It did, but after that change, interestingly, no new place was allowed into the class of natural beings. On the contrary, many sites -- you read their examples in the newspapers every day -- were developed. Natural field, green area and historical areas, such as these, and others, were quickly cemented. It is the new document of the entity economy and the chain of corruption, the run order, which has been uncovered through the 17 December 2013 process, which will be carried out by the government's Undersecretary of Treasury on 19 April 2014. This regulation is a symbol of the treaty of those who lean on the state and those who empty the state's vault, and it's its bond. If we remember that the boss who received the tender was blasphemous in the corruption of the nation, this businessman was clearly rewarded with the people's tax in exchange for blasphemy. What about urban transformation or collective regeneration? Is urban transformation necessary in Turkey or urban mass renovation? The answer is yes as the Republican People's Party. However, the government did not provide successful samples in near 7,000 hectares, which it declared in May 2012. On the contrary, he builds homes like this for the upper income group. The 1,200 dwellings that have been destroyed in Esen Airport neighbourhood will be replaced at the moment, and 993,000 liras on the Internet -- look, they can't say $1 million because they're ashamed -- will be done. And then 20 months ago, the people of the airport neighborhood, whose homes were destroyed, and those waiting on rents, they'll have housing, and we'll see what they'll do, and we'll see what they'll do. If urban transformation is intended, we must consider the following issues in cities in which 73 per cent of our population lives: 1) Urban transformation should be defined not only as building concrete buildings but as a comprehensive local development program. 2) The local community in the project area must be allowed to establish a legal status and administrative identity. 3) Rights owners must be presented with options. 4) Active partnerships must be established in projecting, production, business phases. 5) Social development projects for local social development should provide social content for physical renovation. Look, the one who hit the wall in Istanbul and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to give you a few examples of the desired failure of urban transformation. For four years, they've been waiting in broken homes for four years, where people have been waiting for their homes to be destroyed. Gaziosmanpaşa Sarıgöl neighborhood is where the Roma family of 300 dwellings has been dissolved. Oliveburn is a disaster, it's an urban transformation. It's called high-rent skyscrapers. I've just shown you the Esen Airport Neighborhood. It's all a different story. Oliveburn, Fiklatepe, Gaziosmanpaşa, Sulukule, are all examples of the urban transformation that cannot be done by this government. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0137par0240	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz. Here you go, Mr. Original, seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0138par0245	Mr. President, of course, since the Capitol TV has turned off this poster...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0137par0246	Mr. Original Day, if you'd be so kind... please, don't do that there.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0138par0247	Mr. President, this poster...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0139par0248	No, you're doing the CHP's thing here. You can't do a party's thing here.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0138par0249	Look, here's... You can't interfere.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0139par0251	I'll get involved. I'm the Chief of Staff.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0138par0252	Sit down!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0139par0253	I'm the head of operations, I'm involved!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0140par0254	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0138par0255	You can't come here unless you call the Speaker.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0139par0256	I'm the head of operations, I'm involved!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0138par0257	You should know your place, sit down!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0141par0259	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0139par0260	He can't stay here!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0138par0261	Of course!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0139par0262	There's an emblem of the party.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0138par0263	You can't get in here! The Speaker of the House...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0139par0264	Friend, there's a party emblem, no!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit02spe0142par0265	Congressmans... please, Mr. Oz... you can't interfere here like this. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0142par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our seventh round budget talks. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Ali Özgündüz is now in charge. Your time is seven minutes, please come in, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. We had to be called a second time, and the guys applauded, so thank you. Mr. President, first of all, due to the recent incident, a friend who does not know the Constitution, who does not know the Constitution, who does not know that he cannot approach the bench without the invitation of the Speaker of Parliament, must be warned that he himself has seen the title of Chief of State and is in charge of his own situation.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0144par0010	We chose, we chose.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0145par0011	Whoever chooses it, it's a breach of duty.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0012	The group's deputy president has issued that warning, but you, especially by the office of the president, must be given this warning. If you touch the bench here, that's what you call marbe. We'll call you coupgers from here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I, therefore...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0146par0016	You've occupied the bench many times.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0017	Mr. President, the poster I'm using right now doesn't have a party emblem in any way.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0146par0019	No, we don't accept that. I don't.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0020	Look, you can't interfere here.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0147par0022	Congressman, please, there is no such procedure, do not interfere with the speaker. Ladies and gentlemen of the group, please have your groups, stay calm, we'd like you very much.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0024	Mr. President, if it's all right with you, you can determine that any other member of parliament in this area, especially one of our female deputies, has stepped in here, so I really don't know, please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0147par0025	The gender of lawmakers is out of the question here.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0027	No, but I mean...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0147par0028	We expect MPs to act in accordance with the General Assembly as the Court.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0029	Then, Mr. President, warn me.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0147par0030	Everyone please proceed according to the rules of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0031	Mr. President, it's December 17th. Now, on December 17th, it's absurd to talk about anything else anyway. So it is our right, the Republican People's Party, to use these posters, which were prepared by our party on December 17th, and were not included in the billboards because of the pressure of power. This is the original, 504 pages, a review of December 17th. There's 27 attachments to that, there's evidence, of course we couldn't bring them here. Mr. President, by the way, it's been a while. Sure, what's December 17th? December 17th is a chocolate box, where the chocolate cans come out of dollars. So, of course, in this chocolate box -- let me close the part -- because there's no money here in any way, we could only bring pictures of these, and we could get pictures of them coming out of the chocolate boxes. [[Talk about the AK PARTY rows.]] Yes, of course we'll talk about it, and we'll talk about it, guys. What's December 17th? Let me tell you about December 17. December 17th is corruption, theft, immorality, shamelessness, and shamelessness. December 17th...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0148par0038	What's the catch of innocence? Is the trial over?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0039	It's the purity of innocence, the precious friends talking about this place, the purity of innocence. It's the purity of...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0148par0040	Tell me about her, about her innocence! Tell me about it!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0041	If a man defends his wife of innocence, he'll come up here, he'll say, with honor, honor, send me to the Supreme Court to use my purity of innocence, so that I can be cleared. But your ministers are begging, falling into a miserable state, saying, "Don't send us to the Constitutional Court." (HPP) December 17th is pathetic, and your ministers are miserable.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0149par0042	Your patheticness, yours.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0043	Do you guys know what December 17th is? It's lying to people, looking them in the eye, December 17th.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0150par0044	Just like you're doing right now, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0045	People, do not believe what you see. Don't believe the counting machines coming out of this bedroom, believe our coup d'état bullshit. It's 17 December.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0151par0046	Is it right to comment on people who continue to judge? You were a prosecutor, weren't you? Move on to something else.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0047	December 17th is when a general manager comes out of his house with his shoeboxes and millions of dollars. Two million dollars, two million euros, one and a half million dollars for your minister on December 17th...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0152par0048	I take it you didn't get the answer on March 30th! I take it you didn't get it on August 10th!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0049	...from Istanbul to Ankara. Your minister's arm on December 17th is a 700,000-euro watch. The man says here...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0152par0050	You wouldn't be in this situation today if you'd already taken them!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0051	Listen to me for a second...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0152par0052	You wouldn't be in this situation today!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0053	What does your minister say? Your minister, sir, is here waving a document, I don't know, fake...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0153par0055	What happened on August 10th, August 10th?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0152par0056	On August 10th, you took account of all this. You got it again on March 30th.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0057	Hey, shut up and listen!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0153par0058	What happened on August 10th?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0059	Mr. President, don't interrupt... look, you have to intervene here because...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0154par0060	Mr. Original, you go ahead and talk.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0061	But look, I'm running out of time.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0154par0062	You guys go ahead. The one before that...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0063	Here, the man came, the minister said: I took this watch, I did. So, brother, if you took it...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0155par0064	Why don't you tell me what the head of the congregation said?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0154par0065	Please listen quietly.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0066	For God's sake, we asked your other minister, Hayati Yazri. Did you take it? Has the customs tax been paid? No, it wasn't paid. He said it was your own minister. So, what happened to the $250,000 tax fine on this one, who paid for it? Have fear of God.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0156par0067	Mr. President, please use a clean language. Please step in.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0068	You put the watch on your arm and at least pay the customs fine! He makes Reza pay for it. The bribe makes him pay after the corruption.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0157par0069	Elin's messing with his boss. If that's the MP's office, that's not it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0070	Do you know what December 17th is? Look, all this time, not an hour. Sir, $209,000 euro watch, 197 grand watch, 97 thousand... nine, 10 hours, $2 million. Do you guys know what December 17th is?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0157par0072	Whose kids are insured?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0073	Do you know what December 17th is? With the money that was tried to reset on December 17th -- was it the 60th government -- the 60th government's reputation will also be reset. December 17th means that your minister, who lays in front of Reza, will roll into the pit. It's December 17th for him to fall into the pit.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0157par0074	That's what you don't understand. On March 30th, people answered for them, people answered for them. You still talk today about what you didn't understand that day!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0075	December 17th means piano. December 17th means piano, piano. It's meant to spread.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0157par0076	That's what you don't understand! That's what you left behind! That's where you don't fit in!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0077	Do you know what December 17th means? It's December 17th to provide private zoning plans for dirty men who swear at people's mothers! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Do you know what December 17th is? Freeing thieves and going after judges-lawyers, cops who investigate theft! It's exile.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0157par0080	You're in the lap of a parallel structure!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0158par0081	On December 17th, the CHP...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0082	Do you know what December 17th means, December 17th? Even the blessed Koran of the 17th December is the means of bribery.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0157par0083	December 17 is the day you cooperate with the parallel!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0084	You know what? I'm not screwing this up. Your minister waving that verse, his manuscript, the Koran, is being taken away as a bribe. It's the abuse of religion!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0157par0085	Do you have an abscess, abscess?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0159par0086	Who burned the Qur'an?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0087	Do you know what December 17th is? When Zafer Çağlan builds a school, some people's workbooks will remain open. On December 17th, Mubarak, the minister who abused people's religious faith, Ramadan, delivered provisions with the money of Reza Sarraf, with the money of $1 million!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0159par0089	You're the best! You're the best one to do it!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0143par0090	Until December 17th apocalypse, as long as the world stands, this government is a bribe, a tribute to corruption! On December 17th, when people call themselves "ak" and say, "I praise your group" -- the day when those who call themselves "ak" are not white, they are black, they are covered in filth. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0160par0094	Thank you, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0161par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0160par0096	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0162par0097	March 30th, August 10th is when you were buried in the chest!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0161par0098	Mr. President, the secretary has made some very serious accusations against our group. I beg of you. Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0163par0100	I didn't mean your band... Mr. President, I mean the government.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0164par0102	He says he means the government, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0163par0103	A minister who can speak for the government. But I didn't say anything to the group.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0165par0104	You're the mayor of Izmir...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0166par0105	Then take the stand, on the stand! Take the President's place!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0167par0106	Please be calm and quiet and I can hear you. I didn't hear what you said. I'm sorry. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0168par0109	Mr. President used oratory statements both directed at our group and directed at our own. I'd like a two-minute word on bullying, sir, according to 69.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0169par0110	Check the transcripts, sir. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0167par0111	Yes, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0168par0113	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0167par0114	Don't let any more taunts get in the way.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0168par0117	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, we've all listened to the clerk speak here with a great deal of excitement, almost like a show, in his hand, with photographs and the words he adapted from it. He told me what December 17 was. These people know what December 17 is. December 17th, to this nation, to this nation's politics...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0170par0118	That's for the court to decide, that's for the court to decide.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0168par0119	Look, it's the day that even those who listen to you, even those who commit political assassinations, come out. December 17th...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0171par0120	You're gonna decide?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0172par0121	Who did it?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0168par0122	Let's also discuss...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0173par0124	Please calm down and listen.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0174par0125	You walked down those roads together.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0168par0126	Weren't you with them, sir? The tie, the side, and the front are a separate matter.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0175par0127	You've walked the road together, then.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0168par0128	Who they are is another matter, what they do is another matter.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0175par0129	You were singing...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0168par0130	It's obvious who the prosecutor of December 17 is, who's his armband, who's his judge, all of which are parallel, that these parallelists have made an attempt against politics and the state. (CHP and MHP rows) It's obvious that they're doing this in a cover of corruption, slaughtering the law, and unfortunately, with his arm, with his prosecutor, with his judge. They obviously don't have a law to uphold justice. Bravo! Now, you're telling us: why didn't you surrender to the law that the parallelists took on December 17th? We say: "We couldn't hand over this nation, this state, to a parallel structure with parallel arm, parallel prosecutor, parallel judge, to a parallel structure, to take over the state. We protected you, and we protected you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0176par0135	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0177par0136	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0168par0137	December 17th is the day that those who tried to assassinate this principle were discovered, and that's the day that we stood up and moved this country to today. [AK PARTY'S "Bravo"] Voices, applause; CHP's "Bravo" lines, "Bravo" sounds, applause!"]
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0178par0138	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Here you are, Mr. Altay. [[Noises]] Please be quiet, I can't hear the demands.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0179par0142	Mr. orator, after accusing the corruption of bribery of the 17th December as a coup and the members of law and justice involved in those operations as members of a parallel structure, he has the right to say nothing -- he has openly taunted the Republican People's Party by accusing them of cooperating with them.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0180par0143	I didn't make that accusation, Mr. President. If such an accusation exists, it's already been expressed by its own MPs.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0179par0144	No, no... leave it alone!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0181par0145	Please... please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0180par0146	I've never had an accusation like that. CHP MP Birgül Ayman Güler himself has already expressed that. Besides, I didn't make that statement in my speech.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0181par0147	Mr. Ünal, please... please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0182par0148	Bring in the transcripts, Mr. President, we don't have a statement like that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0180par0149	I just said that we stood up for ourselves that day, protecting politics, which is yours. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, CHP APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0183par0150	You'd be protecting the law of thieves.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0182par0151	This can't be happening!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0184par0152	Please... there is no such procedure. I'll take turns listening.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0183par0153	Mr. President, what I'm listening to, what I understand, is that we're in cahoots with the structure they call parallel.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0185par0154	Or your congressman said that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0186par0155	You say you're not...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0187par0156	That's for people to decide.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0188par0157	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Please don't cause any further discussion. Let's just drop it, please. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0189par0160	We're not. Say it. We're not in a hug. Say "It's not a hug."
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0188par0162	Please be quiet.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0190par0164	December 17th has been recorded in history as the corruption of bribery of the century. In the following elections, the votes you received on March 30th and August 10th were not enough to exonerate some suspected government members, mentioned in the December 17th bribery investigation. You're wronging yourselves by putting yourself in the same position as them. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Furthermore, on October 17th, this country witnessed the corruption of the century by covering up these 17th and 25 December investigations. Furthermore, the legal corruption of the century in Turkey was caught yesterday (December 14th) by some law and judicial members who became the staff of the executive body. But here's to our conversation with the parallelists. On every occasion...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0191par0169	Birgül Ayman Güler explained.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0190par0170	Birgül Ayman Güler has done wrong, the party has committed a crime, and it will be done accordingly. [Cheers and applause from the ranks of the AK PARTY!]
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0191par0171	The ancestors have a saying. They drive the truthful out of nine villages.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0192par0172	You know, party democracy!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0193par0173	Please, let's be quiet.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0194par0174	However, they have settled everywhere. The claim is very unjust. The parallelists didn't settle down, they didn't infiltrate. I say to those who say, "You gave them those questions and you placed them in different levels of the state." When bribes and corruption were involved in this December 17th investigation, those officers, those judicial members, were disturbed, and you declared them parallelists. And by you, I mean your group, the MPs, some members of this government.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0195par0176	We were cleaning you up, too!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0194par0177	If it is an organisational investigation on December 14th, the leader of this organisation is one of the co-chairs of the Fethullah Gulen, one of whom is Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0196par0180	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0197par0181	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0196par0182	Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0197par0183	I'd like to make a promise that the man who was just talking about my orator has made a mockery of me.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0196par0184	What did he say, sir?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0197par0185	He made a claim that I did my duty wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0198par0186	Mr. President, I have spoken to you of this promise, that you should warn the head of management.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0197par0187	I hereby declare that a man, who is in front of his name, should know that he will not appear on the stand with a party material. This is the seat of the nation, not the chair of the CHP.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0199par0188	Come on, he didn't know. Don't you know you can't go near that bench?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0200par0189	Now, members of the law, please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0197par0190	This is the people's stand, not the CHP's.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0201par0191	You don't know the Civil Code, don't talk, sit down!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0202par0192	Come on, he didn't know. Don't you know you can't go in there?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0201par0193	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0203par0194	Please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0204par0195	This isn't CHP's bench.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0205par0196	Let's just say he didn't know, you're a man of experience.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0203par0197	Congressmans, we're conducting a hearing here. When you're conducting the hearing, the administration can't take office without calling the president, it's the entire... internal code of command. (CHP) Please do as required and ask our deputies again...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0204par0198	The MPs don't come with material, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0203par0199	...please negotiate in a proper manner, in a proper manner. Please, watch your language. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0206par0201	Mr. President, the ruling party's Deputy Director of the Group has just accused me of putting on a show. (AK PARTY desks) There's bullying. Plus, I have to make a statement about the documents I have.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0207par0203	Mr. President, I don't think the word "show" is...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0208par0204	Wait a minute, let me hear it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0209par0205	Ahmet Aydın used it, Mr. Mahir, not you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0207par0206	That's what I said.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0209par0207	Did you say that, too?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0207par0208	So I told him.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0209par0209	Shame on you! This is very disrespectful to the bench, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0210par0210	I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0207par0211	Mr. President, the show is done using some visuals. That's not an insult. The gentleman used some visuals.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0211par0212	It took a different meaning. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0212par0214	What does that mean, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0215	It doesn't suit me if I say what I say and it doesn't suit me.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0211par0216	Please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0218	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0211par0220	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0221	Now, Mr. President, the ruling party Deputy Director of the Group has just come out here, and he says, "Sir, December 17th, here's the attempt of parallel structures to hit the government... etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera."
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0214par0222	You know that's the way it is.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0215par0223	You know it is.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0224	Well, that's how it was, but why did you sign up for the Investigation Commission? So, tell me, why did you sign up for the Investigation Commission?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0215par0225	Well, look, you didn't give it to me, five months later we gave it to him, us, us!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0226	So, is the parallel structure currently running the Investigation Commission?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0215par0227	We gave it to him.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0228	Yeah, about four ministers...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0215par0229	You didn't.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0216par0230	We gave it to him.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0231	Very good, isn't there an Investigation Commission on the Four Ministers?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0215par0232	We built it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0233	If it was a coup, why are you giving it to me, brother?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0215par0234	We set it up so the allegations would get out.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0235	What if it's a coup?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0215par0236	We built it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0237	If it's a coup, why are you giving it to me? Why are you setting it up?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0215par0238	We set it up so the allegations would come out.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0239	You're in conflict. Do you know what December 17th is?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0217par0241	Tell me if you're showing off or not. I'm not sure what you're...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0242	December 17th, when your government has issued a red alert, Al-Qadil, wanted by INTERPOL, was forced into the home by the Prime Minister's bodyguards with a forged passport. December 17th... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Yeah, I'm telling you, I'm making a bet.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0218par0245	Whose bet is that? How do you know all this? Did the parallel give you these, huh? How do you know all this?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0246	I'm making a bet, I'm making a bet.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0218par0247	How do you know all this?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0248	Do you know what December 17th is, December 17th? That's coming in, sir, working on a model with someone's kids, along with the land range.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0219par0249	Mr. President, this is not the place for a number of unsubstantiated claims, it's the saintly stand of the nation.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0250	Do you know what December 17th is, December 17th? On December 17th, Riza Sarraf....of Reza Sarraf....who fed the ministers with food..
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0220par0251	Let him respond to the show. Is he showing off or not?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0219par0252	This isn't a trial.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0253	...that soon half the cabinet will be able to vouch for us.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0219par0254	The gentleman continues to be a prosecutor there.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0255	December 17th is a disgrace to the government of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0219par0256	You're a congressman, you're not a prosecutor, don't continue your old profession here.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0213par0257	And that shame will remain upon you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0221par0260	Thank you, Mr. Original. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013 İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0285	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, while the national education budget is being discussed, a very pink picture has been drawn in both the Minister and the other speakers' statements. The national education budget has increased 709% in your transference. That's not how budget figures are assessed, Mr. Secretary. If you make that assessment, then I'll tell you, five years before you came to power, between 1997 and 2002...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0223par0286	There's BFF, there's BFF.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0287	...budget has increased by 1.462 per cent, 1.462 in five years. You call it 709% in three years. Because that's not the way to think about budgets. Look how it's judged. The share of the national education budget is considered in the general budget. In your thirteen-year period, the share in the general budget has increased by 6.8 per cent, and the increase in one year is half. In your 13 years of power, the GDP of national education has increased by 1.3 per cent in GDP, and the increase in one year is 1. Moreover, in these thirteen years, the number of students has increased by 34 per cent, while the number of teachers and staff has increased by 70 per cent. You've moved on to 12 years of mandatory training, and yet this is the real increase. How can you look at the budget? You say, "What is the increase in investment budget?" The investment budget for national education has dropped 8.3 per cent over 13 years. The investment budget has decreased in your transition. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's come to the teacher's salary. You boast too much that the teacher's salary has increased by 350 per cent, 360 per cent. If that's what you say, then I'll tell you the last five years. Before your power, from 1997 to 2002, how much did the teacher's salary increase? It's up 1,000 percent, 1,000 percent. Teacher's salary isn't determined by these numbers. See how you evaluate the teacher's salary: you look at the poverty line in the country, you look at the monthly consumption spending per person in the country, and you look at the teacher's salary. The poverty limit, consumption per month per person, $2.148 teacher's salary, that's how you assess the teacher's salary. When you came to power, you said: "There will be no teacher left unaccounted for. " When you came to power, the number of unassigned teachers was 60 thousand, and now it's up to 350,000.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0224par0289	We can't see, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0290	It's not that hard, you know, without seeing it or hearing it. Still, there are 120,000 teachers short. Can't you get money? You can say that we couldn't find money. The source was certain that 72,000 teachers could be paid a year's salary instead of an illegal palace. You didn't prefer it, you preferred luxury and luxury. [[Applause from CHP rows]] How do you measure quality in education? It is measured: You look at the spending per student per student, you look at the spending. The cost per student in OECD is $8,643, $1,592 in Turkey, which is our 5.5 times higher than OECD. That's how you compare in training. Now, to the Ministry of National Education. It's really the most unsuccessful Ministry, but the most unfortunate Ministry, actually. The Ministry can't make its own decisions, so it's a very unfortunate ministry. While education requires serious scientific savings and need for a vision, unfortunately, the intervention in education has been set up by a mindset that aims to run its vision backwards and deal with republican values, so an unfortunate ministry is unable to manage it because the Minister cannot. In the past, the former Prime Minister and the new President are constantly interfering with every aspect of education, how is it interfering? He was even interfering with the National Board of Education meetings in the past. For him, to be honest, I believe that the first address of this failure in education is not the Minister and the ministers before him; the first address is Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been and will be, because he ignores the Ministry of National Education. The 19th National School of Education was held. Before that, he gave a certain speech, decided to shape the lifestyle of kindergarten students, and what did he do after that? He opened the Ottoman debate. Guys, this isn't about Ottoman, we all know that, this has nothing to do with Ottoman. You know what the problem is? The problem is getting the Arabic alphabet into schools; the problem is making a coup against the letter revolution; that's the problem. That's why Mr. Prime Minister Nevşehir was greeted like this. Is this in Ottoman? Is this in Ottoman language, Mr. Secretary? It's written in the Arabic alphabet, but it's written in Turkish. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look what's in front of the podium. Look who's standing in front of the bench. Look, these are banners prepared for the Arabic course, which the Ankara National Education Directorate will soon send to schools.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0225par0298	That's nice.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0226par0299	No, imam-gatherers, imam-haters, misdirection.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0300	How beautiful! That's what's good about it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0226par0301	The city there sponsored that project.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0302	...the mindset of youth, trying to guide your mind to the past and not the future.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0227par0303	We see our grandfathers as Ottomans, our ancestors as well. I wonder who you are.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0304	The Turkish Language Foundation's dictionary of longing for the past is one, my friends.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0227par0305	Who are your ancestors? By all means, no Marxists!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0306	In response to longing for the past, he writes at the Turkish Language Foundation as a restitution.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0227par0308	Our grandfathers are Ottomans.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0309	You open it, you read it, that's the definition of reactionary.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0227par0310	I wonder who yours is.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0311	Ottoman was never the native language in this country, never the language of the people, always the Arabic used in the palace, full of Persian words, completely disconnected from the people...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0228par0312	You're a commoner, Mr. Serker. And you're so cut off from the public, we'll be in power as long as you are.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0313	...and it's not called Ottoman, it's a language called Ottoman Turkish. 1876 is the 18th...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0228par0314	As long as your mentality continues, we are in power.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0315	Learn, learn, you don't know, ignorance is a bad thing.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0228par0316	Look, you're the one who's out of the loop right now.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0317	Article 18 states that the official language of the state is Turkish.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0228par0318	We're connecting with the Ottomans you're ashamed to contact. You're ashamed of the profession, ashamed of it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0319	...the 18th article, the official language of the state is Turkish.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0228par0320	You're ashamed of ecstasy.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0222par0321	You teach the children Turkish first, Turkish.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0228par0322	You've ignored the apocalypse, you're ashamed of it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0229par0323	Oh, wait, you've talked too much about her.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0230par0324	It's a shame, a lady is talking, so be nice.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0228par0325	Could be, this is the congressman.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0231par0326	Please, be quiet, listen.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0232par0327	Mr. Secretary, you sent these to kindergartens with the signature of the branch manager. Look, it says: "Our values are precious. " What is it that you send to kindergarten? It's like: Look, I'm passing Koran's kindergarten -- Koran's lesson or something -- how to read the Arabic alphabet, the letters, the application manual to the teacher... You teach the letters of the Arabic alphabet to students, five-year-olds, four-year-olds.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0233par0328	God makes you talk. You admit it yourself.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0232par0329	You three-year-olds are the heads who want kindergarten to be segregated by gender. You know what you call a three-year-old girl's sexually focused look? The bench isn't available, I can't tell. You have to understand what it's called.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0233par0330	You said all those things.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0232par0331	Such twisted projects are being set up by your followers...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0234par0332	Teacher, talk about it everywhere, okay?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0232par0333	I'm not saying by the Ministry, it's backed by the President.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0235par0334	You must respect our Muslim grandfathers, our profession. You'll find out.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0232par0335	You'll soon be done with co-ed training. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You heat the water, but the frog knows it's cooked.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0236par0339	Thank you, Mr. Serker. Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. Here you go, Mr. Baydar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0237par0344	Mr. President, no banners, no banners, Congressman, for the record.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0238par0345	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the SEC budget in 2015. Dear lawmakers, in the 2015 budget, we see funding proposals for the SEC and all state universities. We're going to talk about a budget that's not even 1% when it's proportional to national income, with a budget of about 4 per cent, but can universities do education, education, research activities, and achieve the predicted performance levels? The answers to these questions are unclear. With this resource structure, is it possible to reach the country's bid for $500 billion exports in 2023? I'll leave it to your appreciation. Unfortunately, our country is last in education in its report when it evaluates the quality of life in 34 members of OECD, since you do not have sufficient resources and you do not have an assessment of the efficient use of the source. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's short-term foreign debt costs $130.7 billion. The total foreign debt reached 401.7 billion dollars, and most of the short-term loans are financed with hot money. Let's see why Turkey's short-term foreign debt is so high. Turkey's short-term foreign debt is due to high current deficits. Well, when we ask what the current is, the current means spending more than you produce, and when you spend more than you produce, you're trying to get a short-term loan from other countries. So, why did we tell you all this? We have told you that in his speech in Çanakkale, Davutoglu, let the world that was torn from us be reunited with us. Turkey will become a Jihan state in the next 12 years. He said it would sound like Erdogan. The question is, is it possible that the country that spends more than you produce is the foreign government, which borrows continuous foreign loans? Oh, no. Because it's impossible for a country that borrows money in the short term and doesn't grow up enough to have a Jihan state. Now, let's get to what it takes to become a Jihan state. In order to become the state of Jahan, you have to build and develop young people who will create luxury malls, luxury housing, luxury restaurants, exports and advanced technology facilities instead of luxury state buildings. So you have to produce and invest in youth the goods that are relevant to foreign trade. Otherwise, it's impossible to borrow short-term loans from someone else and become a state of jihan. Davutoglu, who deals with Gazzali and Hegel, in his dreams, must now stop dreaming and start talking about the truth. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, do you want the truth? Here are the facts: unregistered teachers, unemployed agricultural engineers, associations, unemployed IİBF people and so on. These are the concepts of your era, your new Turkey. He founded 20 young graduates of international relations, journalism and engineering, the Association of Degreed Unemployees. Young people who had finished college but could not find a job have explained their goal as a solution to unemployment problems. The number of universities, 73 in 2002, reached 184 in 2014. The universities that opened each city as if they were opening a grocery store as they tried colleges have spread to towns where quality has not been observed, which are not enough resources. There's a lot of colleges in apartment buildings that open during your time, and they're practically giving out diplomas. ▪ He created an army of unemployed people with a degree in university policy in each city. University graduates have increased the number of unemployed to four. In 2000, one of the 10 unemployed graduated from college and one of the five unemployed today have a university degree. On the other hand, the Phoenix Agency has announced that it is unemployed, according to TÜİK data, with 600,000 university graduates in Turkey. TİİK data, however, does not fully reflect the number of certified unemployed, because TİK does not accept those who are not looking for jobs because their hope is lost, who are looking for jobs underhanded through spouses and relatives, as well as as unemployed; in fact, if they find jobs for such people, they will start. They use their statement, as well as unemployed. When we review these conditions again, Mr. Secretary, the number of unemployed graduates, the number of university graduates, unfortunately comes to a million reasons. There are two main reasons why unemployment is higher in educated young people than in general unemployment. Unfortunately, there are no jobs in your economic policies. Unfortunately, your government has failed to produce policies that have increased employment since 2002, allowing people to find jobs in labour markets, which your government is guilty of. You don't plan manpower or labor in training. What needs to be done is to plan schools and students in higher education based on the needs of the future by planning a labor force first. The number of colleges has increased by 150 percent in 12 years, but what about academic, scientific quality? We have 184 universities, but not a single Turkish university in the world rankings for the first 100. Turkish universities lack library opportunities, scientific publications are not respected. Since you do not provide sufficient resources in matters such as autonomy, research, scientific-ademic quality, our universities with serious problems do not contribute enough to the country's development and development. Under the circumstances, the increase in the number of universities raises the level of education of the unemployed army. If I explain in two words what you're doing, you're delaying unemployment. If you ask my opinion of the SEC, have it destroyed immediately with all its executives - universities, financial, administrative, academic autonomy. Let life be a holiday in college. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0239par0358	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. Sakarya MP Engin Özkoch... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0362	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Today, my friends have addressed all Turkey and the world from this bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and they want to tell our nation one thing on behalf of our people who live in Turkey. They said: "You have been entering the third year in twelve years -- O my people, consciously, you are being robbed, you are being robbed, you are being destroyed, you are being divided. " All my fellow MPs have come out here, and they have seen an unprecedented genocide in the world. No one here has ever really listened to them. The bench was tried to be invaded. As Nur Serter spoke, some friends applauded his Arabic as if he were against Arabic and other languages. This is the government and this government's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who started the United States with a lie and then entered Iraq, a Muslim, and massacred 1.5 million Muslims, from TVs and Turkish press, and he said, "I wish success to American soldiers."
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0241par0365	You're lying.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0366	I'm returning that lie to you. I'm not the kind of guy who lies and has no personality. (CHP clapping in rows) All right?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0241par0367	You're the one with no personality. You're a liar, you're a liar.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0368	I'll bring those documents and throw them at you. He's the Prime Minister, and he's also the President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0241par0370	Take your abscess and talk like that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0371	...that American soldiers have defeated another dictator.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0241par0372	Exactly.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0373	Dear lawmakers, soldiers at the time, American soldiers, Muslims...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0241par0374	You also ran to Saddam's palace. All dictators are your comrades. You'll sink into your lies, your lies.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0375	...when they stripped the dog naked and made him shit, while you were smiling in 24 columns, while the Muslims were slaughtered.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0241par0376	Get out of here, get out of here! Take another lane.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0242par0377	What budget are we on? What institution budget was that?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0378	Dear MPs, while Muslims were slaughtered in Libya, while Muslims were slaughtered in Egypt, a voice from Turkey rose.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0241par0379	Wasn't Esed a Muslim who was slaughtered?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0380	Then Recep Tayyip Erdogan said: "I am the co-chair of the Great Middle East Project."
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0241par0381	You do not understand him.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0382	Now, is there a co-chair of this Great Middle East Project? No, I don't. You know why? I am the co-chair of the Great Middle East Project. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who called it the Arab Spring, has infected the blood of more Muslims than the Republic of Turkey has ever seen.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0241par0384	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0385	Dear lawmakers, you're talking about theft, shamelessness, December 17th. For 12 years, our people have been systematically robbed, destroyed. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in his decision regarding agriculture at the time, told them not to plant the gardens and fields of our people, saying: "I do not feed the expensive crops you produce in Turkey. He said, "I'll make you eat the crop I've imported." This led to the destruction of the farmer in Turkey. All he wanted to do was strengthen his own sovereign forces outside of Turkey and destroy Turkey's farmer. My dear friends, there's a person sitting over there, and I'll see if any of my friends ever break up, Mehmet Haberal. What can I do for you, Mehmet Haberal?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0243par0387	What did the parallelists want?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0244par0388	Ask the parallelists.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0389	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0244par0390	Ask him about the parallelists you backed up today.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0391	What did you want from Mehmet Haberal?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0244par0392	You're in love with your own executioner.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0393	Mehmet Haberal was the number one scientist raised by Turkey, raised by the world.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0244par0395	Ask him type F, type F.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0396	Because you fed that structure you called a parallel structure, you destroyed Mehmet Haberal's years in prison because you brought it into this state, and again, what did you want by Erdoğan's word?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0244par0397	Now you give it to me.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0398	Now, he's Mehmet Haberal sitting in front of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I see you're trying to shake his hand as you walk past him, and I see you're trying to smile without ever bowing your head to you. You're not guilty at all?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0244par0399	Don't take over the parallel crime ring.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0240par0400	My dear friends, remember this: I don't know what you do, my fellow deputies sitting here, the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, where they represent you, you're trying to intimidate them, because you're trying to intimidate them, and we're never, ever afraid of your gas bombs or your courts. You will answer to these people today, never forget that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0244par0402	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0245par0403	And the people will be given their account in the chest. People are giving you the check!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0246par0404	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0244par0405	That's bullshit. That's bullshit.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0247par0406	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0246par0407	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0247par0408	The Civil Code 161/3 has organised the talks and insults of our President here. The minister used the word "bloody" for our President. The minister cooperated with the outside forces for our President. He used his statement. These allegations and accusations are outrageous accusations. He can't use these phrases here without any kind of zoning. That's why I'd like the Supreme Court to do its due.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0248par0410	Did he not become co-chair of BOP? I'm the co-chair of BOP. Didn't he say?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0249par0411	Indecencyous allegations, immoral!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0250par0412	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0251par0414	Mr. President, I stand by everything I say. If this Supreme Court wants to send me to the Supreme Court and not the people who robbed this nation, he can send me to the Supreme Court whenever he wants. I'm ready to pay. That's what I'm saying today, and that's what I'm gonna say tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0252par0415	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0250par0416	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0253par0417	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0250par0418	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0254par0419	He's confused the Supreme Court with the Presidential Court, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0250par0420	Well, I mean...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0255par0421	First you become a minister, then you go to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0256par0422	Mr. President, it's a tradition for a member of our group... to tease, to abuse, but it's something you do, it's systematic abuse, let me tell you that first.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0257par0423	Indecent claims don't go unrequited.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0258par0424	By God, your group does more of that systematic abuse, Mr. Altay. I beg of you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0256par0425	Don't mention it, don't mention it!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0259par0426	Now... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0256par0428	Now, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has made a claim. In accordance with Article 161 of the Civil Charter, he demanded that the operation be carried out. However...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0260par0429	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0256par0430	I know, I listened to you. However, Mr. President, the content of the speech made by our group's MP is related to the current prime minister's term, the prime minister's term, and related to the events during the prime minister's term. Therefore, Mr. Group Vice President's claim is irrelevant. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0261par0433	Well, sir, Mr. President, if we accept this statement from Mr. Deputy Director of the Group correctly, then we'd like to apologize to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is our Group President and Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0256par0435	Answer me, answer me now.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0261par0436	We'd like a word with you about our group president... or a couple of minutes of bullying, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0256par0437	Answer me.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0262par0438	Look at your own bloody past!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0263par0439	He's not already a member of your group, and neither is he.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0264par0440	Now, Mr. Ünal, I promise you two minutes. I'll take a look at the records and make an assessment. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0265par0443	Let the CHP look at its own bloody past!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0266par0446	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, who have been in front of this nation for 12 years, have clearly shared their vision, perspective with their nation, given their account only to their nation...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0267par0448	Upsy-daisy! It's not about the people, it's about the judgment!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0266par0449	...that he was a native, local and Turkish-loving leader who had not bowed to any other force but his people, and that the nation had made a decision regarding Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was registered by the nation.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0268par0450	Yeah, they've been keyed for nine choices!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0266par0451	...who has never been sanctioned by the nation, who has never been supported by the nation, and who have used statements about our President and our former Prime Minister and the President of the Founder in the past, and I regretfully condemning it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0269par0453	We're returning more than enough.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0270par0454	Indecencyous allegations, immoral!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0266par0455	And if Mr. President and our current Prime Minister, our Founding President, were he to cooperate with the forces you claim, you wouldn't be able to talk to us like that today.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0271par0457	Didn't he say I'm the co-chair of BOP?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0266par0458	And you couldn't make these allegations and accusations!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0271par0459	Didn't he say I'm the co-chair of BOP?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0266par0460	What you call "BOP Co-Chairship" is something we've expressed over and over in the past that has no actual lining, no truth.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0272par0461	He said so himself.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0273par0462	He confessed himself!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0266par0463	...Yemen, Italy and Turkey are co-chaired by international law and concluded in 2004.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0274par0464	Is this vertical or parallel?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0266par0465	And using it over and over again is the result of your inability to speak highly of foreign policy and misusing international law to your own politics.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0275par0467	The expanded Middle East project continues later. It was the expanded Middle East project, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0266par0468	Once again, I would like to say from this bench that Recep Erdogan is a man of the nation!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0276par0470	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0277par0471	Mr. President, I'm just trying to get him to report...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0276par0472	Let's get him on the record.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0277par0473	I'm just saying, as far as the minutes go, the Republican People's Party has always respected the presidency of the Republic of Turkey, and it will be after that, there is no hesitation in that. But I wish the elected President didn't make political polemics of other political parties outside the Justice and Development Party, especially the leader of the main opposition party, with the leaders of the Nationalist Movement Party, the leader of the Peoples' Democratic Party, in a way that doesn't suit him, and we shouldn't even question the prime minister's term, let alone the prime minister's term. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0276par0476	Thank you. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013 Scholar Aykan Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir. Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0278par0502	Oh, come on, guys, that's bullshit.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0279par0503	You're a college teacher. Does it suit you?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0280par0504	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the High Council, and the people who are watching us on the screens. Today is December 17th. Today is Turkey's new millennium. Let's say there's no shoeboxes in the new Turkey, let's say there's no euros, no dollar bales in the new Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0281par0508	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0282par0509	Mr. President, if that happens, please step in.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0283par0510	What the hell is this? Uncharacteristic! Look at this! Desperate!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0282par0511	Please, Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0512	Let's say there's no pulleys in the new Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0285par0514	Mr. Erdemir, please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0286par0515	You're desperate, desperate! You're desperate! You don't even learn from being buried in a trunk. They're desperate! Desperate!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0516	Let's say there's no black tires in the new Turkey, no black tires in the new Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0287par0517	What a shame! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0288par0518	Please...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0519	Well, if we ban them in the new Turkey, as long as we can't silence numbers and numbers, can we cover the top of December 17th?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0289par0520	Yeah, tell me about the project. Why don't you tell me about the project?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0521	As long as the numbers and numbers are talking, can we silence December 17th?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0289par0522	Tell me about the project. What's your project?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0523	What's 17?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0290par0524	That's the date you collaborated with the parallelists.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0525	17. The age of Özlem Şahin....that some of the lawyers here have burned alive in Madimak....the age of Özlem Şahin....the age of 17. (HPP applause) The age of Erdal Eren, who has been hanged by age, has been 17 years old. The week of the fight against bribery and corruption is 17 percent of December.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0290par0527	You've become a community public party, a community public party!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0291par0528	That's when the civilian coups ended.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0529	4.057. According to the DİSK report, the poverty limit of a family of four is $4,057.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0290par0530	These people will bury you in the chest, bury you. I'll see you in five months in the trunk.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0531	101,884. Our number of professors under the poverty line, our assistant professor, our professor, our research officer, our student, 101,884 poor. 58. The number of scientists members of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, who have resigned, refusing to become co-host to the AKP government, is 58.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0290par0534	If scientists are like you, then woe to us!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0535	85. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, shame on you! We don't need teachers like that. The ODTÜ (ODTU) of the teachers of the Middle East Technical University, whom he insulted by saying, "We don't need such teachers." [[Applause from CHP rows]] 3. The number of universities that New Dawn Author Yusuf Kaplan has proposed to Erdogan to be destroyed is 3. ODTÜ, Boğaziçi, Bilkent, 3.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0290par0538	A traveling salesman, a traveling salesman! What are you selling there?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0539	We don't sell people like you, people.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0290par0541	If those scientists are like you, it's official that we're burned.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0542	266,267. The number of students suspended this year was 266,267, even though they applied to the Credit Homes Association to stay in public dorms. 1,150. The number of rooms in the escaped palace is 1,150.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0292par0544	It's bad, too!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0545	$1 billion 370 million. The estimated price of the illegal palace is $1 billion,370 million. 1,400. The number of living rooms you can build in our mines instead of the runaway palace is 1,400.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0293par0547	Look at the level, the level!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0294par0548	Just show me your work.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0549	One million. For the Mercedes you took to Mehmed Gormez, for the car in charge...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0294par0550	Show me one piece of your work as the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0551	...a million liras from public resources.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0294par0552	You're a demolition squad, destruction!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0553	And zero. The amount you're transferring from public resources for the expenses of the Cemevs is zero!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0294par0555	You have a bloody past. You're a demolition squad, destruction!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0556	80 grand. The veteran car used by Pope Francesco to visit Turkey is 80 thousand.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0295par0557	Have you seen what he used in Rome? Have you looked at the car he used in the Vatican?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0558	To protect the president's reputation, we have to pay taxes for the toilet at 10,000 liras, 10 grand! Uncle Recep, who lost his son in Ermenek, paid 10 liras for the black tire sent to him by Karaman Governorate and Ermenek subsidiary!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0296par0560	Show me the brand of your shoe!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0561	Uncle Recep has 1,000 pairs, 1,000 pairs of black tires, with the money for a toilet seat in an illegal palace!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0296par0562	Why don't you show me the brand of your shoe?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0563	97. In the 2015 budget, the presidential source has increased by 97. 3+3. To the officer, the raise you saw against the minimum wage worker in 2015 is 3+3. And 100 billion. The estimated cost of the 17th and 25 December corruption operation is 100 billion euros. 130 grand. The number of pepper spray cartridges used by the police in 20 days during the travel park protests is 130,000. Zero. There's nothing illegal for kids to eat at the mall! Praise be to God, we ate gas, we ate baton, we ate water, but we didn't eat forbidden food like some, zero!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0297par0569	Get out of here! You're all over the place! Your mindset is forbidden!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0570	14. At the age of 14. Berkin Else, who was shot in the head with a gas capsule on his way to get bread, was shot in the head.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0297par0572	Your mindset is forbidden, your mindset!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0573	269. The number of days in which Berkin Else was in a coma is 269. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 16. The day Berkin lost his life, he weighed 16 kilos.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0297par0576	Pay for the people you killed in my class, the people you killed in Zilan Creek!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0577	Zero. The humanity of those who booed Berkini and his bitter mother - zero, zero, zero!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0297par0579	You're not even zero!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0580	Berkini, the people's labor, the people's sweat, the people's humanity is nothing!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0297par0581	You answer for your bloody past!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0582	We're going to be the mother of the nation. There's no humanity!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0297par0583	You're a mindset that slaughters thousands of people!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0284par0584	The humanity of the liars, of the Talan, of the massacres, of the bowlers, of the poolers, zero, zero, zero!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0297par0585	You can't even be zero, not even zero! You can't even be zero, that's a value!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0298par0586	Tell me what happened on August 10th!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0299par0587	What happened on August 10th?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0300par0588	And finally, today is December 17th.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0301par0589	You can't take your clothes off on the stand!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0302par0590	You answer to the people you killed! Pay for your bloody past!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0300par0591	Today's number is 16.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0302par0592	Tens of thousands of people died, pay for that!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0300par0593	What's 16?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0303par0594	Nine what, nine?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0300par0595	What's 16?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0304par0596	Tell me about August 10th, tell me about March 30th, tell me about June 12th!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0300par0597	What's 16? 16 is not just the license plate of our beautiful Bursa.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0305par0598	You're a coupger, coupger!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0300par0599	16, the number of members of the Supreme Court, which shall judge the President and the Prime Minister under the Constitution in this country, is 16, 16!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0305par0600	You've never respected the chest! You're a coupger!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0300par0601	Today is December 17, 2014. Today is the 16th day, 16th of the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0305par0602	You're a coupger, coupger!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0300par0603	For the President and for the Prime Minister, Turkey's memorable number of license plates is at dawn 16.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0306par0605	Bravo! You were the only one who didn't do the show, and you started the show!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0305par0606	You're a coupger, coupger! You're a coupger!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0307par0607	What's 52, 52?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0305par0608	You're cooperating with parallel pulsers!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0308par0609	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Izmir MP Oğuz Oyan. Here you go, Mr. Oyan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0309par0614	Dear lawmakers, yes, it's December 17th, there's no way out of this. It must be historical irony to discuss the budget on the anniversary of a historic day in Turkey on December 17th, when the government's corruption peaked or as a byproduct of the power struggles, finally the face of corruption that appeared in the iceberg moved to society's knowledge. Look, I'll make a small addition to the debate here, dear friends, to the 6th article of the Constitution, please let those who sit in power read it well. The 6th article of the Constitution is the sovereignty clause, and I read the last paragraph, and it says: "The use of authority cannot be left to any person, group or class at all. No one or any government who has not received the source of an organ from the Constitution can use it. What did you want? What did you want? You violated the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution when you gave up the ministries, handed over the law, handed over the law, handed over the HSYK, when you handed over the HSYK, when you conspired with the Turkish Armed Forces. Don't come in here and tell other people they're a coupger now. Article 6 of the Constitution defines sovereignty. You've committed a constitutional offense, and it'll never get away with it. According to this, we've given you everything you want from a parallel or another structure. From the moment you say, you're guilty because you've handed over a power from the Constitution that doesn't take its source. My dear friends, this isn't polemic anymore, let alone that. The second thing I'm going to say is that when we look at the university's 2015 budget, $18.5 billion, including the SEC, including the SEC. I mean, look, the Ankara Chamber of Architects has an account. It's called $1 billion,370 million in illegal palaces. But the Ankara Chamber of Architects -- according to their accounts -- says that it goes on and on and on and on, it can't be less than $5 billion, so it's a separate story, including how much of the stuff is in there, but you've spent a third of the university's total budget on a palace, including the SEC. So, there is the conscience of the Turkish nation, where the desire to build a corruption economy, as a sign of a low-developed country, a luxury affluence, an obsession with adornment, to build large structures that fit a totalitarian state, is essentially the conscience of the Turkish nation, and it will be called a palace museum of corruption, where it will be called the museum of impropriety and the museum of impropriety.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0310par0618	Mr. Oyan, come on! An old man like you... Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0309par0619	The colleges are in huge resource gaps... Since it's about college, let me just mention it. He just told me, my friend, that we could have dealt with the whole Turkish housing issue, maybe if it could have been avoided. During the AKP period, the number of universities rose from 53 to 104, so it doubled, most of which have increased to university, but doubled. So what was the university's share of national income? It became 133% when it was 100, so it only increased 33 percent; it increased 100 percent; the number of universities increased by 100 percent, and the number of students increased by 100 percent, but the share of universities in national income -- that's the way it's looked -- has only increased by a third of that. That means college budgets are crawling all over the floor. It's actually a measure of value given to universities and science at the same time. Look, I'll give you another comparison: the world's most important university, Harvard University, has a budget of over $40 billion. That's 100 billion Turkish liras. Put the National Ministry of Education budget on universities in Turkey, all worth 80 billion. The national income difference between us and America is not so obvious or the national income level per capita. It's incredible. In the United States, a single university's budget is greater than your entire Ministry of National Education budget and the budget of 104 universities. It's also a sign of where you've been on foot. Or look at the number of books in the library: there are 17 million volumes of books, literature, 6 million in all your universities. So, you're going to walk out of here with religious training, and you're going to walk out with faith?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0311par0622	I hope so.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0309par0623	May God make it easy for you. He hasn't been out in 600 years, Ottoman, I hope you get out. In university grants, staff funds and investment funds total 75 per cent. Investment funds are more like, you know, new building productions, I don't know what's going on, so, the truth is, it's not very useful. Staff grants are 54 percent. Of course, staff funds will be high because universities are service production units, that's the main thing. But I'd also like to say that you're very inadequate, which means that your higher education compensation is very inadequate. It's absolutely useless if your rights don't come together with a job guarantee. There are 65,000 professors, 31,000 of which are in the curvature status, which is the assistant professor, which is about half of which are in this status. Almost all of the investigators, almost 43,000 researchers, are at extreme status. So your structure is a curved structure. My dear friends, you must put assistant professors on permanent staff, which must be transferred from 50/d/d to 33/a. I'll tell you one last thing: Davutoglu says we've brought Turkey, which is the 26th row, where we don't know. It's definitely a lie. Second, he's doing a national income check in dollars. It's definitely unscientific. You're going to do it in Turkish liras and at fixed prices.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0312par0628	The Prime Minister isn't lying, you're lying.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0309par0629	Third, IMF debt. He's lying just like the former Prime Minister, and we paid off the IMF debt.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0312par0630	You're lying.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0309par0631	$10 billion in IMF debt was paid in 2005, and you know what the IMF said when they gave it to them.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0312par0632	Teacher Oğuz, lying doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0309par0633	▪ A three-year loan will provide an anchor for the November 2007 election. So I'm giving it to you to be elected. It's a disgrace to IMF history.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0312par0634	Your accusation is a disgrace, Teacher Oğuz.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0309par0635	So, even though you get an additional 10 billion loans, you're always saying that we've paid the IMF loans that were taken. And that's a lie, because Turkey's external debt has increased from 129 billion to 402 billion dollars.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0312par0637	It was inappropriate, Teacher Oğuz.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0313par0638	Thank you, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0314par0639	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0313par0640	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0314par0641	Mr. Speaker has accused the Prime Minister of perjury, and I demand an answer.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0315par0642	With lies with no tails.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0316par0643	He said he was wrong, it's wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0317par0644	He said "lie." It's a lie.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0316par0645	He meant wrong, he meant wrong, if he didn't fix it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0318par0646	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0319par0649	Mr. President, dear friends, you can come in here and talk about your opinions, your opinions may be different, you may disagree with the Prime Minister's views, but that's not the way to do it, you don't come in here and call the Prime Minister a liar. Think of it this way: I'm going out to tell you that I'm a liar, and you call me a liar. There is no room for speech and discussion in this Parliament.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0316par0650	Did you or didn't you?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0319par0651	I said, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0320par0652	Yeah, well, it's obvious who's a liar.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0319par0653	So once, first of all, it's good to pay attention to language. Second, it is wrong to compare America with Turkey only through Harvard. U.S.A.'s illegitimate national product is $16 trillion, thanks to God, Turkey has gone up to $800 billion, and we're not a trillion. If you think about it over the years, you'll see the difference. What has Turkey done? He's upped his college numbers. If my dear teacher had traveled around Asia Minor, he would have seen that those universities that had originally been set up as a sign were no longer a sign, but many of them had great buildings and many of this nation's very intelligent, very intelligent children. The EC PARTY has taken universities to all the provinces, laid the foundations, and has done a very good service for both education and social policy by taking university education to the foot of a citizen all over this country. Indeed, it is an expression of the person. So we talk here, we tell things, but at the same time, remember, we talk about ourselves, we talk about our ways. Power's throat is 9 chokes, and if we don't talk, that doesn't mean we're in. And that's what I want to say here. My respects.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0321par0658	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0322par0660	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0321par0661	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0322par0662	I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0323par0663	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0324par0664	He'll fix it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0322par0665	It's a misunderstanding. I want to fix it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0325par0666	About what?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0322par0667	It's about the promise of lying, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0325par0668	Okay, go ahead, fix it. Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0322par0671	Thank you. Now, look, I think that here, the Prime Minister has a responsibility and obligation to convey the truth to the community, especially to lawmakers. Therefore, my lie cannot be given false information. Now, look at this matter of surreal information, and I'll give you an example, Mr. Prime Minister said as we were talking here: "No one lent this country -- I took notes, and I found mines. I mean, we raised the country 3.5 times when we arrived -- with this dollar account, of course, but we didn't borrow money from anyone. Now, look, we didn't get a loan. There was always a small part of the IMF debt, in total debt, for $402 billion from 129 billion in the period of a prime minister or government period. We've never borrowed from the IMF -- the former Prime Minister always said that, and the new Prime Minister -- we've paid off the IMF's debts from the old era. It's not true. A portion of the loan received earlier than the IMF, because of the 2000 programme, has reached the AKP era, and it has received the final credit chapters, after which a new three-year programme has been created since February 2005, and the IMF has completely entered into political behavior and has given $10 billion to support power in the 2007 elections, even though it does not fit the IMF criteria for the three-year programme in any way. So whether we're in the polls or here, we're obliged to just tell society the truth, we have to do it out of respect for society. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0326par0676	Thank you, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0327par0677	Just for the record.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0326par0678	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0327par0679	The speaker has just said that the Harvard budget is $40 billion, the public budget of Harvard is $3.7 billion, and the other amounts are money obtained by the ability to donate. It's $3.7 billion, the number is wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0326par0680	Thank you for your contribution. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013 In his name, in his favor, Yalova MP Popeye Coshkun. Here you go, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0328par0705	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget as the last speaker of the day. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our valued deputies who spoke before me told us what had been done. I'd like to stress something first: we've done important work, we've done important work. I thank you to our ministers, to our bureaucrats, to all who serve this country, especially our current President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has worked hard, who has given us great courage, who says, "This nation does." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Today we're talking about the budgets and services of two very important ministries. It's not over till hours of national training. A total of 176 universities -- from 50 to 60 classes to 30 people, from blackboards to smart and interactive boards, free textbooks, tablets to computer-supported education, oppressive and prohibitive understanding, transparency and liberal understanding, persuasion rooms to reading rooms, eight years of uninterrupted education, twelve years of mandatory education, each and one university, more than 100, are part of our most important investments in education. We've made improvements that will make our precious teachers more honorable and willing to do their duty. With the pressures and prints of February 28th over education, we would have cleared the coefficient in vocational schools. We've allowed vocational schools to rehabilitate imam-gay schools, which have been specifically targeted. We reconstructed Turkey. We took the first steps of the new Turkey from health to justice, from public to highway. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we love our people very much. Why is it that others have it, and we don't? We destroyed his understanding. We have saved our nation from understanding that the shepherd and I are not the same as the man who sees our man scratching his belly. The best of you is those who serve people. By making a principle of their motto, we said, "Everything is for our people, everything is for Turkey." When we went to Europe, we brought to our country cities, parks, and gardens where we envy them; thankfully, we now marvel at the green, park, and entrance to the city. We've delivered our cities from the garbage heaps and provided our people with parks and gardens. I would like to remind you of Haliç. I would like to remind you of Umraniye. We care about the environment, we care about the green, we care about the city, we care about the education, in short, we care about the human. Dear lawmakers, today the opposition lawmakers remember the date of December 17th, but there's another date that they've forgotten, which the nation hasn't forgotten in the past, but I want to remind them today: the 1989 ISİ scandal, remember?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0329par0712	Oh, it was too late, too late. Are you still using that stuff?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0328par0713	It is a case of major corruption in these tenders that the ISI General Directorate has given its tenders to companies that it has set up as fronts.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0329par0714	We've already forgotten that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0330par0715	We held it, we threw it out of his ear, we didn't claim it like you did.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0328par0716	You guys forgot, you didn't get through that trauma, people didn't forget, and he's still not giving you that job, and he won't.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0329par0717	We took him by the ear and threw him away.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0328par0718	See what Ergun Göknel, one of the heroes of the first two scandals, says.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0331par0719	The bureaucrat did it, he served his time. It's not political. He was a bureaucrat, a bureaucrat, tried and punished. You're missing judgment, you're missing judgment, you're missing law.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0332par0720	We didn't do it on purpose so he wouldn't be judged.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0328par0721	I live on my wife's pension. I didn't finish the left, Soren did. I gave my vote to the AK PARTY. Who says that? Ergun says Göknel. People haven't forgotten, people haven't forgotten, and they won't. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0333par0724	Thank you, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0334par0725	Ergun Göknel was tried and punished. So judge them fairly, and send the ministers to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0335par0726	The weakness of power.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0336par0727	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0337par0728	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0336par0729	Mr. Orator compared the elephant and the ant, but the BlSI scandal made allegations that would implicate our party in an incident that occurred in 89. If you'll excuse me, I'd like your word on the bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0338par0731	It's expired. It was SHP, what does that have to do with CHP? There was no CHP then, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0339par0732	It's still the same, BFF, BFF, still. Don't be so miserable, find some other material.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0340par0733	They're out of capital.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0341par0734	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0342par0738	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the BlSI, of course, is a corruption, and the BlSI is a theft, and BlSI is a fraud. THE amount of money in the BSKI is one tenth of what is in the shoebox, not to mention all the money that passed on December 17th and 25th today. I'll say it first and then...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0343par0739	A few of them are one, and a lot of them are thefts.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0342par0740	A few and many are one, I admit. And few and many others are alike. Stealing is stealing. Whether it's BSKI or members of this government, you're gonna say it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0343par0741	But it's not clear yet, this place is going on.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0344par0742	What's going on? The theft continues, the theft.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0342par0743	Okay. WHAT happened in the past? We have young friends who have just entered politics... there's been a scandal in the past, there's been a theft. It was good to be, it was good to be. Nurettin Soren, mayor of the Republican People's Party, held Ergun Göknel, responsible for the SKI scandal, and placed him in front of the courthouse. (H.P.) He laid down in front of the courthouse. He did not lie in front of Zarhab, like your ministers. A black money launderer, like your ministers, did not vouch for half the Council of Ministers for the gold smuggler. The difference between here and the Republican People's Party is that clear.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit03spe0345par0745	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0345par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our seventh round budget talks. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013 The commission and the government are in place. Now it is up to the government to speak for the first speaker, Minister of Environment and Urbanism İdris Güllüce. Here you go, Mr. Gülluce. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0346par0029	Mr. President, I'm going to try to provide valuable lawmakers with information about the budget drafts of 2015 with activities carried out by our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I hereby salute your high council. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has set its own goal to improve the quality of our citizens' lives and to protect the environment and to entrust a healthy country to future generations. As the ministry, we are based on an approach that protects and protects the environment, not as an obstacle to development and development, but as an essential requirement for balanced growth. We walk on the mission of doing all of our ministry's projects and activities with a very high quality of life and sustainable environment with an understanding of planning, construction, transformation and environmental governance, regulatory, participant, and solution-oriented. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the phenomenon of migration from country to city and squatting has prevented our cities from growing healthy, causing the destruction of the natural environment, and has increased the risk of life and loss of property in case of disaster. Such factors as unsanitary construction, old and worn-out building stock, disaster risks and rapid population growth have made the need for transformation of structures and areas in cities mandatory. We have left behind the two-and-a-half-year period of implementation under the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster No. 6306, which is aimed at solving these important problems. During this period, important work has been done to eliminate risky structures in terms of life and property safety and to ensure that our people live in safer and healthier structures in planned areas that have solved the problems of transportation, infrastructure and social hardware. During this two-and-a-half-year period of implementation, we have begun the transformation of nearly 400,000 independent units. Our ultimate goal is to ensure the transformation of 6.5 million units in the republic's 100th year. As a result of our urban transformation studies, in 38 counties as of December 2014, 150 different areas of risk are declared as large as 7,000 hectares. The safety of more than a million of our citizens living in these areas that have begun their transformation has been guaranteed. The 165 risky area offer is in the process of reviewing it. In addition, according to Article 733 of the City's Law No. 5393, in 41 areas with public property, a total of 2,840 hectares has been designated as a regional transformation and development project area. In addition, in 53,547 buildings, more than 190 thousand independent units have been identified at risk. There are 13.152 buildings, 45,297 independent sections of the building that have been compromised. 52 per cent of the risky construction detection took place in Istanbul alone. Under Law 6306, a total of 42,500 hectares of 37 reserves have been declared in our provinces to be used as a new settlement. In addition, the application regulations of Law No. 6306 have been expunged to speed up the licensing process and are licensed to identify 853 institutional and institutional risky structures as of today. As a ministry, as a matter of fact, we're co-ordinating urban transformation, creating the necessary environment. Urban transformation, governorships, municipalities, TOKI and relevant NGOs, and volunteering, I repeat, is run by private sectors and citizens on the basis of volunteering. In the work we're conducting, we have the utmost sensitivity and support to prevent our citizens from being victims. We're doing rent aid, loan aid and shipping assistance. We also support the citizens who turned their building, excluding many taxes and mortars, especially VAT. More than $1 billion has been used for urban transformation so far. We are the Geographical Information System portal, which is important for investors' quick and easy access to geographical data, to improve investment processes, to increase the efficiency and efficiency of decision-support processes. The Real Ortofoto and Geographical Data Production Project, conducted by our ministry's technical co-ordinator, is among the number-one projects in the world, as well as the first one in our country. Over 40,000 square kilometers of projects include urban settlements and development areas, producing high-resolution orthophotos in coastal areas, social, cultural, industrial and tourism areas, districts and cities. The Ortofoto Project will be provided with the basic data the disaster management needs, the country's building inventory will be obtained, the city's neighborhood disaster insurance rates will be seen, after the disaster, the rights will be quickly determined by DASK, and illegal constructions on the coasts can be followed, and illegal floors in cities will be automatically determined. The ministry will also be presented with this subtitled data via the website, along with the Ministry's spatial data, which will be provided on the portal by citizens for paral questioning, risky structure questioning, plan interrogation data. It has also been developed by the Ministry of Atlas, where other institutions and organisations using geographical information can easily access data. These studies will help shorten the investment process by ensuring that the investment ground elections in our country are made faster and healthier. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as expressed in our government programme, in the sustainable development approach, we also provide the well-being and happiness of our society, but on the other hand, we don't forget that nature and the environment are a trust of future generations. We take the necessary steps in all sectors to develop construction, construction, and construction in accordance with these principles. As economic and social development develops, increasing the environmental sensitivity and awareness of society is at the head of our ministry's most important workspaces, guaranteeing that today and future generations will benefit from limited natural resources. As a result of recent studies, there have been significant increases in the number of municipalities that have been served with the sewage network and the wastewater treatment plant in recent years and in the population where this service has been provided. In 2002, 35 per cent of the municipality's population received wastewater treatment, while we have now increased it to 77 per cent. Our goal is to make sure that all municipalities get to the wastewater treatment plant in 2023. In addition, 50% of the energy costs of local governments' wastewater treatment facilities are covered by our Ministry. In this case, a total of 80 million dollars has been paid in the last three years. As a result of our efforts to dispose of the garbage in modern facilities, today the number of solid waste regular storage facilities has reached 79. With these facilities, the municipality population has reached 70 per cent. At the same time, electricity is obtained from a 15-fold waste disposal facility. Our goal is to bring all our municipalities to a regular floor waste storage facility in 2023. As of 2014, More than 2 billion euros per year were provided to the economy with recycling facilities that reached 450 euros, while packing wastes were restored to 50 per cent. As of today, the number of recycling facilities has reached 313. In addition, the number of first-class hazardous waste storage facilities has increased to seven hundred and thirty-eight. In addition to national resources, the resources of the European Union are widely used, with the aim of strengthening environmental infrastructures such as local governments' water, waste water and solid waste. In the 2014-2020 IPA period, preparations began for 22 integrated water projects with an 857m-euro budget and 15 integrated solid waste projects with a 423m-euro budget. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, maps of pollution involving pressure and influence on our seas have been completed by 2014. By raising the number of blue flags, a sign of clean seas, we became third in the world in this area. We aim to be the world's first in 2023 in the number of blue flags. We are taking various measures regarding ship waste, one of the most important factors of marine pollution. We're providing ship-to-ship disposal services at 247 coastal facilities. One national and six regional emergency measures have been prepared and implemented by our Ministry to prevent and minimize sea accidents. The risk assessment and emergency response plan of 268 coastal facilities has been approved. Protection and control of the environment include not only emissions control, solid waste disposal and waste water treatment issues, but also efforts to prevent environmental noise. Our ministry has launched a series of noise maps in the 10 different cities, primarily selected by the ten pilots. In Antalya, Muğla and Nevşehir, the noise mapping of noise caused by entertainment was launched in Edirne, Adana, Erzurum, Gaziantep and Samsun. Fighting climate change and adaptive efforts are being carried out by the country's facts. In this framework, the recent United Nations Climate Summit in Peru expressed a fair and flexible system based on socioeconomic indicators, levels of development, capabilities, and goals that each country will determine according to its historical responsibilities. We also stressed that in the new agreement to be created within the framework of these fundamental principles at the same summit, after 2020, you are ready to perform the tasks of our country, which have never been silent throughout history, in the measure of its possibilities. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the Environmental Effect Evaluation, the most efficient tool for environmental management, are the investor's road map. Our ministry has played a vital role in implementing investments, especially in measuring environmental impacts and taking necessary measures. The investment is subject to the CED process directly from our Ministry, whose capacity is above a certain size. Those who remain below that threshold are judged by the environmental impacts of the governorships. If this assessment is given, the project will be taken into the ministry's CED process. As part of this initial assessment of the governorships, all investments are mainly studied and reported in terms of environmental impacts. Hence, we are preparing a proposal for changes in order to avoid misunderstanding of their statements.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0347par0061	You give licenses everywhere, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0346par0062	Only in 2014, the 450 projects, which were covered by the CED, were given a positive decision by our Ministry, and the total amount of investments was around 142 billion euros. Thus, these sizes are important in the time of our governments to show where our country is coming from. At this point, our ministry continues its work at the full speed of investment and development in the way our government has shown, while also expressing its environmental sensibilities. In addition, the CED regulations, which were published on November 25, 2014 and have been published in the Official Gazette 29186, have been adapted except for CED, which is bordered by the European Union's CED Director. So our last highly contested change is a completely adaptive change to the European Union.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0348par0064	Are the malls, too, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0346par0065	It is possible to avoid pollution and improve environmental standards, but with the creation of effective monitoring, control and reporting infrastructure. Starting on 1 November 2013, the CED process began to run electronically, providing time and resources. We've been giving out environmental permits and licenses electronically since 2010. In the application process, we have reduced the 199 requested documents to 16 put together under a single regulation of permits and licensing procedures. As part of the Convention on Environmental Officers and Environmental Advisory Corporations, we have provided these citizens with a job in the sector by providing 12,689 environmental staff documents so far. Eighty-seven percent of them are environmental engineers. We gave 782 firms a certificate of environmental advice, and they're environmental engineers. In addition, as part of the CED competency Report, 265 firms have been issued a certificate of CED competency. Data transfers to the Ministry from stations that will be installed at the exits of the treatment plants, which are over 10,000 cubic metres per day, continue, and so far the data integration of the 214 facilities has been completed. Our goal is to monitor facilities with smaller capacities. 5,000 cubic metres/day capacity facilities will also be monitored online by the end of 2015. In addition, the number of parameters measured by our Ministry's Environmental Reference Lab has been raised from 51 to 189, and some of these parameters have been disabled. According to our ministry, there are 175 fixed stations in 81 counties and 4 mobile vehicles with air quality measurements, and the instant measurements are published online on our website. We set up the Marmara Fresh Air Center to improve the air quality. In addition, we are continuing our efforts to establish seven more clean air centres, including Samsun, Erzurum, İzmir, Adana, Konya, Ankara and Diyarbakır. The 121 chimneys of 50 high industrial facilities are monitored online 24/7 with a continuous measurement system. 620 chimneys of 281 industrial facilities will be monitored by the end of 2016. In the last four years, some 150,000 businesses have been audited, and 550 businesses that have caused environmental pollution have been shut down. E-Development reports, audit reports and administrative sanction decision-making, the state of the sentence and case surveillance can be conducted electronically and immediately followed from the centre. E-testing is still being implemented in our 12 pilot provinces. In addition to these studies, seasonal pollution studies are conducted at 83 locations in our six basins, particularly Ergene and Gediz. The local strategic plan has been launched, and the pilot will be selected by 2016 is intended to be completed in the region. With these plans to be prepared for the first time, policies and decisions created by determining the potentials of countries and regions will be directed to lower-level plans. Co-operation with institutions and organisations will improve the investment climate, providing planned development of the country. In addition, work on the environmental order plan has been completed in 97 per cent of the country's entire country to guide planned development, and our revision studies continue. In order for our shores to be well-planned, 98 percent of the shorelines have been completed. KENTGES, a road map of our ministry on urbanisation and development, is co-ordinated by our ministry, in co-operation with public institutions and municipalities. The authority to ratify Resen zoning plan given to our Ministry by Code 644 has been used in very exceptional cases, and planning is conducted within consultations with municipalities. Our preparations for designing the Ankara Ataturk Cultural Center continue. Public institutions and institutions, universities, NGOs, and as much as possible, the opinion of our citizens is also intended for the creation of the site's design project. The detection, registration, evaluation and implementation of areas that are protected, such as private environmental protection zones, nature assets and natural sites is another area of our ministry's mission. According to this, there are 2,134 natural sites and 16 special environmental protection areas in our country. Projects are being carried out to protect and monitor species and habitats that threaten and are endangered. In addition, a new study has been launched to clean up the long-standing bottom mud at Lake Mogan, located within the Special Environment Protection Zone of Ankara Lake. In the coming period, we aim to increase and promote sustainable green buildings and settlements based on renewable energy in the construction sector, energy-efficient environmentally friendly, with local materials. In addition, in 2011, we launched the application for energy identity, giving energy identity documents to more than 230 thousand structures across the country. We've trained 10,600 energy identification experts across the country. Since the energy consumption of new buildings is 40 per cent less than the old buildings, it is intended to save 16 per cent of energy across the country. Increased confidence and quality in construction and commitments is one of our key priorities. We're trying to get our building materials to compete at the highest level in the world's markets. So far, over 35,000 building materials have been inspected by 629 inspectors. A large number of inspections have been conducted recently, especially for concrete plants and iron producers. The structure control system is effectively run throughout our country. As of today, there are 1,639 building control agencies operating throughout the country with a building control permit. As of today, 26,485 architects and engineers have been granted a supervisor's certificate. Our ministry has supervised 20,587 construction sites under the supervision of private sector construction. The 3,687 production projects, which cost about 8.3 billion Turkish liras, have been carried out in 2003 over the demands of public institutions and institutions, and the 209 production projects, worth 1.6 billion, are still under way. In 2014, the construction of 12 dorms, at least 300 students, began construction of 23 public service buildings. Across the country, model construction projects are produced where local architectural tissue and local materials are encouraged. As in our cities, we are working hard to create the necessary legal, financial and technical infrastructure to transform structures that have not had sufficient engineering in rural areas and villages. In addition, our work for the rightful owners is under annual programmes under the housing Act. At this time, $3,901,000 was spent as a free rent allowance. As part of the construction of Izmir Boardlı and Mersin Alakörü dams, the Ministry will be handing over its dwellings to the rightful owners by lottery this month. A draft of the Council of Ministers' decision on how to make the rights and debts of those affected by the construction of the Yusefeli Dam will be drafted, and the right-owning work will be carried out following the release of the decision. The Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, a 177-year-old institution, is one of the citizens' most important contact points with the state and serves our average 20 million people with over 7 million transactions per year. In exchange for these services, about $7 billion in tuition is transferred to the treasury. Now all of our land managers serve online. Real estate interrogations and registration of property from all over Turkey can also be carried out, as well as transactions such as sales, deployment. Our citizens are able to make online appointments without waiting for an application in our land offices. The Alo 181 Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Call Center has been launched in an attempt to approach and improve the quality of service and to address the problems of our citizens. We have completed a strategic e-government project, such as the permanent deed and the Kadastro Information System, which has been developed for the past ten years. With this project, any property information question can be conducted, and the data is available online to all public institutions and citizens. As part of the Local Real Estate System, our citizens are able to access the location or location of the parcel from their home or cell phone, or the cadastro information that they intend to buy from the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate's website. In addition, work and transactions, which have caused significant loss of time for our citizens, can now be done before going to the property managers. In the context of cadastro services, 39,319 units were completed from the date the republic was founded to 2003, while in the last ten years alone, the cadastro of 12.736 units was finished and reached the final point of the country's facility cadastro. Between 2009-2014 and 2009, four million 410, 568 parcels of the World Bank, with the company's own resources, a total of 5,642,255 parcels, have been tendered, and nearly 3,600,000 plots have been completed. The man who built himself with the cities can never turn his back on the environment, which is an integral part of his existence, and we work with the logic that he can never condone his destruction. In our civilization, it is not permitted to break a single branch unnecessarily, to pluck a single flower. And what we need today is to keep that understanding alive, to keep that legacy. We will continue our work with a solution and a service-oriented approach to urbanism in the coming period, both in the environment and in order to grow rapidly, to leave a world with a better nature for the next generation, and to further increase the proportion of our environmentally conscious people. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that our budget for 2015 would be good for our country and our nation. I thank the Honorable President and members of the Plan and Budget Commission for their contributions, all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0349par0101	Thank you, Mr. Gülluce. Mr. Eyidoğan has a brief request for a statement according to the Civil Code 60. Here you go, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0350par0106	Thank you, Mayor. They re-empty some of the provisions of the CED Charter, which the Constitutional Court had previously cancelled. So, I'd like to say a few words about these decisions that have destroyed the Constitutional Court. With this regulation, these projects that allow the transformation of agriculture and forest land are exempted from CED. Projects that combine white furniture dye factories, metro railway projects, projects to extract underground water, 3 million cubic metres and dip-scans and materials, 100 million cubic metres of water transfer between water basins, projects that combine 10 million cubic metres and six different streams in the HES projects. They're covered with immunity. Isn't that setting the stage for the environmental slaughter? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0351par0110	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013 Minister of National Education Nabi Avcı. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Hunter, your time is 35 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0136	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all as I present to you the National Ministry of Education's budget for 2015.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0353par0137	He ruined national education! There's no such thing as national education!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0138	Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy to the students, teachers, and officers who were killed yesterday in a foul attack in Pakistan. I called my colleagues, but they were too busy in the heat of the incident, so we delivered our messages, sent our condolences. My condolences to all Pakistani people, children's families, teachers. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as our government programme has found its testimony, our country has entered its second breakthrough with its 2023 goals. Turkey will be a great and leading country in the world of the future if it achieves these goals. In addition to all the historical, strategic, economic, and natural possibilities of our geography, the young generations that have absorbed our rich heritage of civilization, interacting with world values, self-confidence, original thought, science, entrepreneurialism and democracy will be Turkey's greatest power source. In this framework, our governments, established since 2002, have discovered and developed interest and skills, will provide an environment for people who have developed and competed with their peers around the world, the capacity for higher education and private education has increased, the capacity for basic rights and freedoms has continued to implement new applications and reforms in order to achieve a more democratic, flexible and civil education philosophy, and continue to achieve opportunities equalisation, development of institutional capacity, development of education and education. Because of the importance and priority of these activities and innovations, as in the past years, the largest share of the budget was earmarked for education, which was 10 billion Turkish dollars in 2002, with an increase of 709 per cent in 2015 to about 81 billion Turkish liras. In addition, Turkey's research-improvement budget is 57.5m Turkish dollars in 2002, while research projects in the 2015 budget envisioned about 3 billion Turkish liras, 2 billion 800 million. From 57 million liras to 2,800 million liras, our research and development budget. Turkey's research-improvement spending capacity will be 3 billion 200 million Turkish liras in 2015, along with $400m that TÜBITAK is expected to transfer from 2014 to 2015. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been allowed to free the educational field from all kinds of guardianly understanding, equality and prohibitive practice in order to establish a more flexible, civilian and democratic educational system based on the philosophy of liberal education during our governments. In this framework, the ban on headscarves for our teachers from free clothes has been signed under many important innovations from the regulations that pave the way for education in different languages and dialects, to the release of the headscarves in middle school, from the return of our oppressed teachers from returning to their professions in February 28th, to the removal of their co-execution to their vocational high schools, to the removal of antidemocratic expressions in the education curriculum, to the removal of antidemocratic expressions from the education, to the way of education in different languages and dialects, to the life of our Prophet. Education reform, which has increased the mandatory training from 8 to 12 years, has also been done during our administrations. Through these reforms, Turkey has increased schooling and average training in all levels of education.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0354par0143	This is the counter-revolutionary, counter-revolutionary.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0144	In the time of our governments, the developments in this matter have also been found in the Human Development Index in the Human Development Report. As a matter of fact, according to the report, the average education period in Turkey was 5.5 years in the early 2000s, and in 2013 it reached 8 years, 7.6 years. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers have been taken from basic education to middle education and school teachers and curriculum centers, where they have stopped applying students from basic education to secondary education institutions with a single test. This also aims to prevent negatives in all areas of education, to reduce the addiction of students to non-school institutions, and to end the additional burden that this addiction brings to our guardians. Now, while the friend was taking pictures, Edip Cansever asked for mercy, and I stood like someone was taking a picture of me, and I smiled a little... let's send him a mercy, because I smiled a little. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] One of the innovations in education and teaching is the conversion of classrooms into private schools. In this way, there will be an end to the negativity caused by classrooms that put school in second place, which put students in a long-term test-oriented process, which isolates them from social life, which brings serious financial burdens for parents, and creates an alternative educational system, as well as a process that will increase the capacity of special education in education and education, as of September 1, 2015, hopefully. Increased quality and quantity of private educational institutions will contribute to the quality and competitive education services in our educational system. The Ministry's Strategic Plan 2010-2014 envisioned various measures within our educational system to encourage the establishment of private schools by the end of 2014, due to the aim of raising the proportion of private teaching institutions to 5 per cent of the student population. A series of regulations have been carried out from land and school allocations to tax exceptions, from cheap loans to incentive per student has been seriously demanded from the sector. Finally, for 250,000 students who have special education in kindergartens, elementary schools, upper secondary schools, and upper secondary schools, the application of education and teaching aid has been implemented, which, in fact, has changed from 2,500 Turkish liras per year to $3,500 Turkish lira. In this way, both the Tenth Development Plan, and the Ministry of National Education, 2010-2014, will be provided for the use of special school opportunities and opportunities of each student to improve the education investment of the private sector, which is part of the Strategic Plan 2010-2014, and to develop incentives and support practices for private school openings and improve quality in private school education and education. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers will continue the process of training and restructuring education and teaching, in line with the vision of our country's international position and the welfare of our people, with structural transformations based on the basic values and expectations of our nation in the world that is being shaped for education for sustainable development and the Tenth Development Plan. In this context, our ministry's control system was combined in the decisions of the National Education 14th, 15th and 17th Sûra, the Council of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's research commission in 1993, and in the study of education science, on the basis of a holistic approach, restructured, central and rural bilateral structure, and co-ordinated in the co-ordinating of the leadership and control presidency under the title of the various staff and titles of the directorate inspector. I would like to thank all members of the National Board of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports for the unanimous decision that you have given us back the title of honorary inspector. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been gradually transformed into high schools of science, social sciences, and Anadolu high schools, which have implemented the same program as the Anatolian upper secondary schools in order to improve quality and efficiency in secondary school, to reduce school diversity. There are still 2,331 Anatolian upper secondary schools, 232 science high schools, 88 social sciences high schools, 55 sports high schools, 73 fine arts high schools. Also, 22 schools operating as vocational and technical secondary schools have been restructured under the name of the vocational and technical Anatolian high school, the vocational and technical education centre and multi-programming Anadolu high school, with no changes to the rights and rights and powers of graduates, so the school name, which should actually be 22 programmes, has been reduced to 3 school titles. There are still 2,294 vocational and technical secondary schools in vocational and technical secondary schools, 99 vocational and technical education centres, 899 multi-scheduled Anadolu upper secondary schools. Since the 2014-2015 education and teaching year, as in all other secondary schools, imam-hatip upper secondary schools have been converted into Anatolian imam-hatip upper secondary schools and have 1,001 Anadolu imam-hatip upper secondary schools. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, efforts by our ministry to increase access to education and teaching, improve education and teaching quality, will continue in the coming years as well as in the past. As a result of these efforts, the indicators for education and teaching have increased dramatically every year. I'd like to give you some brief information on these developments. More detailed data is already in both the pamphlets we distribute and the official statistics of the Ministry of National Education, which have been published. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's start with the budget. Now, the denominator from the central budget to the Ministry of National Education investments appears to be down by proportionally compared to 2002, yes, but there is no real decline. In 2002, an investment grant from the National Ministry of Education, with 1 billion 281m 690 thousand Turkish liras in cumulatively, was raised to 5 billion 494 million Turkish liras in 2015 and increased by 328.65 per cent. The reason why national education ministry investments seem relatively low compared to 2002 is because our government has a high share in the total public investments. I mean, because the total public investments are increasing, there seems to be a proportional decline in it. Cake's grown, investment cake. In 2002, the share for all public investments was 5 billion 736 million Turkish liras, while in 2015 it increased to 40 billion 454 million 52000 Turkish liras, so a 605 per cent increase was made. That's why it looks like it's low or proportionally. As a matter of fact, that's how the budget for the Ministry of National Education has been growing over the years.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0355par0156	The investment budget is important, Mr. Secretary, the investment budget.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0157	We'll tell you about the investment share in the budget.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0355par0158	Your investment is negative.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0159	No, it's not.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0356par0160	3.6, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0161	This is a real statement of the national education ministry, the SEC and university budgets over the years.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0357par0162	Mr. Secretary, show him as a share, as a share, he'll be misled.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0163	We'll do it as a share, and next time we'll do it as a share. We also have our share graphs, so we'll get to that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0358par0164	Mr. Secretary, that's your line, 14 to 13, here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0165	Now, one by one, with the short graphs of other issues that are being discussed here... There are some of them in the brochure, but it's much better when you're visual, the teacher's appointment: 2003-2004 teaching year 522,831. We bought it with 522,000 teachers. We've appointed 458,896 new teachers. There's no question about these appointments, they're all objective, subjective tests.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0358par0166	Where are the pensioners, Mr. Secretary? Should be 900,000 when you drop the pensioners.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0167	880,000 of our teachers are on duty now, and I hope we get 15,000 starting next January. Teacher's salaries were discussed. In 2002, with real numbers...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0358par0169	No one will believe that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0170	...appropriated $635.20; $2.693.25 in 2014. These are the real increase in teacher's salary. I told you the number of staffed teachers assigned: 458,896. Infrastructure, in this 2003-2014 period, the number of classrooms we've been doing recently is 234.473. And this is where you see the spread for years. Thank God we got our old performance back in 2014, we're closing in on 30,000 in our year-long school issue.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0359par0173	Minister, can you give me a picture of the closed classrooms?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0174	We have scholarships for our students. In primary school and secondary school, our students receive 13 lira scholarships in 2003, 146 lira per month in 2014. The scholarship has increased and the number of scholarship students has increased. The number of students who receive scholarships is 101.382 at primary school and secondary school in 2003, 270 thousand at 2014. Now, there has been a lot of debate in the public about the amendments to the transition exams from basic education to secondary school, which have been brought to a lot of attention from time to time. I want to explain the system once again in public here: children made their choices over 15 choices. Children who couldn't settle in with one of these 15 choices have settled in by choice of school type. Meanwhile, children who have never been in the system have been routed to their addresses. This is the preferential and placement of the group, according to school types. One million, three hundred thousand of our children...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0360par0176	What are those colors? We can't see, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0177	They're based on school types. The Reds, the A (A) group, are one of the first 15 choices, and the Greens are the ones who have settled in the A Group. And the quota is shown in blue.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0361par0178	Mr. Secretary, why haven't you explained the TEOG results data for two years? The results of the TEOG exams...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0179	You've got it all wrong, it's about the CSI. Unexplained...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0361par0180	Okay? Why don't you explain? There's the head of CSU sitting behind you, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0181	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, you've got it all wrong, the unexplained NGO...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0361par0182	I don't know, it's wrong. Why doesn't the head of CSU sitting behind you explain? You're in coordination.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0183	Look, I'm going to explain now, and I'm going to explain now: the SNS exam -- look, Nur Hanım -- will explain to you -- the results aren't explained because they want to build a pool of questions and use it in the years to come. The results of the tests we call "TEOG" are revealed immediately that day. In fact, we asked the media, and we said: "The children are taking tests two days in a row, please don't explain the results of the first day. " When the second day is over, the children will take the test from the other classes, because you look at the lessons on the first day, the child thinks he's not as successful as he wants; and the second day is announced two days later so that he doesn't feel depressed. Explaining.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0361par0185	Mr. Secretary, I don't mean the results, I don't mean the answers to the right questions, I mean the data, the success rates. How many rights are there in math? I'm asking what the average is.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0186	I just answered your first question.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0361par0187	No, I said data, not data, not results. You're not explaining the data.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0188	We'll explain them.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0361par0189	Explain.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0190	Now, here's an urban legend about our children being placed in schools they didn't want. The fact is: 1,300,000 of our children have settled in on this settlement plan, 1,300,000. 550,000 of this has settled into one of his first three choices. He's making 15 choices, children, over half of our 1,300,000 children, or more than 1,300,000, which is a choice-making 1 million, 57, which is a choice-making number of children who enter the system, 1 million, 57,000. 550,000 of this has settled into the first 3 choices, and you can see it in the graph. The number of people who have settled in his first choice is 244.395. The number of people settled in his 2nd choice is 171,273. Those who settled in their third choice were 143,662. When you do, it's over 550,000, the first three are settled. And then we have students who don't get into the system, who don't make choices. These are also placed in school types: One, he never made a choice, he didn't enter the system, the system automatically placed them in places based on address status and points. 71,000 of them were placed in the Anatolian vocational programme, 18,900 put into the Anatolian high school, 42,885 put into the Anatolian Imam-hatip high school. Now, these imam-hatreds are very difficult. You wanted a piece of graphics on him, Congressman. We show in the numerator graph: when you look at school types, red, vocational high schools, red ones, school types. Blues, general high schools. Greens are imam-gay high schools. When we look at percentages of all of our school species, it's 59 percent professional high schools, 33 percent general high schools. I'm just putting it together. The sum of Imam-student high schools is 8%. As you look at the number of students, 46.5 per cent of our students in secondary school are studying in vocational schools, 40 per cent are studying in general high schools, 13.7 per cent are studying in imam-hatip high schools, as a number of students. What's the status of the Imam-haki secondary schools? As of school types, 90 per cent of secondary schools are normal general secondary schools, 9.5 per cent are imam-hatip secondary schools. When we look at it as a number of students, 92.5% of our middle school students study in general secondary schools, 7.5% of them study in imam-hatip secondary schools. Oh, they're growing, but their imam-gathering numbers and their students are increasing. Now, another subject is the PISA results. You're right, all of our fellow lawmakers have expressed that we're not in a good position at PISA, and we're not in a good position when it's measured according to OECD countries. It's not the poor consolation, I'll tell you now. Yeah, we're slowly going up in rankings, but in the best-recovering, correcting country rankings in Turkey, OECD, mathematics, reading, science, the fastest-recovering country in all three, so we're moving up fast, but we're not where we want to be, and you're right about your criticisms; we need to be in a much better place.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0362par0199	That's right, Mr. Secretary, because we're at the end, and there's no more of us!
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0200	Now, you're asking about what the FATIH Project isn't about, what it isn't. The FATIH Project is generally perceived in public as a device project, so it's a technology. Yes, the project for education technologies to apply to our education system is the FATIH Project, but there's an infrastructure dimension, and there's a content dimension; there's a hardware size, there's a content dimension. Now, in 2014, the number of schools cabled in the infrastructure substructure cable was close to 8,000. Now, there's been a new phase tender for this, and the rest of these will be connected to the Internet system as well.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0363par0201	How many houses are wired, from wired homes to newless? WHAT is the plus value you've given Telekom? No one's saying it, passing from cable to freeless. About a billion dollars...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0364par0202	Go ahead, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0203	You know, one of the things we do on the FATIH Project is put interactive boards in classrooms. I also want to do a concept correction here. It's usually called smart wood, or something like that, and in case the board isn't smart, we're suggesting we use the term "emotional wood." 186,565 had interactive boards placed in our classroom in 2014, before 84,921.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0365par0204	But the board couldn't be connected, could it?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0205	Our multifunctional printers connected to these are 20,269. You don't have to do it in every classroom, but when you have one multifunctional printer at school, it works for the whole school. 3,657 in 2013, 20,269 in 2014. ADSL access 35.684, 4,000 earlier. Our tablet computer distribution: we started at 13.800, December 10-11.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0366par0208	What's red, Hajji?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0209	I'm on my way. We distributed 62,800 computers in November 12, 2014 -- the bar we showed in red -- 737,800 tablets.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0366par0211	Is that what you're handing out?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0352par0212	The red one we're dealing with...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0367par0213	Mr. Secretary, it's all right, it's true.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0366par0214	Did you see the red one? Have you seen the red column? Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0367par0215	Minister, can we go to a school together at once?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0368par0216	We'll go.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0367par0217	We'll go to a school immediately.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0369par0218	I'll go with you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0367par0219	Come with me, come with me.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0370par0220	Project FATHIH... What are you doing in content? So this is what you call a computer, etc., but what do you do in content? Let me sum it up briefly: a network called the Education Information Network, which we developed as part of the FATIH Project; this is the sum total of the portals that we upload content, the major portal; (EBA) Education Information Network. Anyone can enter, so we don't need any passwords or anything. If you enter this evening, you will see. The number of audio files that we uploaded there: in 2012 -- so they're spoken aloud -- 2,663, 3,499 in 2013, we uploaded the new audio file to the unit this year. How much is the document here, the educational document, in the EBA? We started this year, uploaded 973 educational documents. Now, we're uploading materials, lessons, gains to the EBA through the transformation of the classrooms and through the supplementary courses, especially for our students from the eighth grade to the middle school. We've just uploaded videos of common gains in the 294th class, 8th grade. So, when students go to the classroom, they can watch the files from the EBA as they go through the EBA to middle school in the 8th grade. We also uploaded 1,381 scientific journals to the EBA this year, 900 magazines last year, 600 magazines the year before that. And then there's our electronic books. We're trying to get all of our ingredients into electronics. 996 electronic books were uploaded last year, and this year we're uploading 1,674 electronic books. Our visual materials are increasing rapidly; in 2012, we were close to 50,000; in 2013, we were a little over 50,000; this year we reached 85,000 -- FATHIH in content -- our visual materials in the EBA. Also, when I say visual material, I mean just static visual material, and we have video visual material, which is the end of this year -- it's almost 8,000. And our user number is $1,300,000, and that needs to go up. That's why I'm showing these in particular, so the public -- the EBA -- our kids, our schools, though, have been informed, but still -- we have class presentation files, 991 class presentation files, 615 last year. Now, FATHIH is like this. Also, I'd like to say a few words about this case that's been discussed a lot lately. Mr. President, I'd like to thank our former ministers, Mr. Professor Omar Dinçer.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0371par0228	Isn't he a professor, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0370par0229	...Mr. Blessing Prime, Mr. Vehbi Dinçerire. Also, we have members of the National Board of Education, members of the National Board of Education, and from them, Mr. Avni Erdemir, Mr. Osman Çakır, Mr. Bedretttin Yıldırım, Mr. Nebi Bozkurt, Mr. Muzaffer Çacar, Mr. Suat Önaal, Mr. Ahmet Duran Bulk, Mr. İbrahim Ayhan. Now, with those accepted by the General Assembly, 185 have made a recommendation. It's a council of consultants, as you know, that gathers every four years. It has been established by the regulation of who this board will be, when it will be met, what agenda it will be met with, and how it will discuss those agendas when it is assembled. In accordance with this regulation, he did a very productive work for six days. But we had four basic agendas, 19. It's in the national educational community. One: enhancement of the quality of teaching. What we have all been insisting on is one of the main issues that our fellow speakers here have insisted on, that the quality of teaching is being increased. Number two: boosting our executive quality. Augmenting the quality of educational executives at every level. From the principal to the county manager, the head of the department, to the director general, we had a second agenda to improve the quality of all our educational administrators. Our third agenda was a matter of school safety. Physical safety of our schools and environmental security, especially school environmental security in terms of dealing with drugs. Our fourth main topic was the course schedules. There have been 10 advice decisions on preschool education, 11 recommendations on elementary school, 11, 17 recommendations on school schedules in secondary schools. On the quality and selection of teacher candidates on the quality and selection of teacher candidates on the quality and selection of teacher candidates on teacher training, 16 on the choice of teacher candidates for the job, 2, on the vocational development of teachers on the development of teachers on the development of teacher candidates, on the development of internal education and career systems, 17 on the issues of improving the social status and reputation of teaching profession on the subject, 2 on other issues, on the part of the matter, on the part of the lists of education managers on the basis of education managers, 13 on the basis of training managers in order to reassign eight on other issues, 8, on the security issues of school safety issues, 6 on the general security issues of the school, the decision has been made to provide a decision in order to ensure security in general, 6. 185 recommendations have been made on these issues, and these are not discussed, the Ottoman matter... is it Turkish or not? First, let's remember the real situation: in Turkey, the Ministry of National Education has already made Ottomanian study at social sciences high schools for ten years as a mandatory lesson. On this occasion, I would like to thank Mr. Hussein Steel, who founded the social sciences high school and made Ottomanian a mandatory lesson in the 2nd, 3rd, 4th grade around here. I also want to thank Mr. Nimet Başal and Mr. Omar Dinçer, who continue this practice in the form of electives. Through the savings, experience, samples we've derived from the applications, the commission has proposed a recommendation to all schools, all secondary schools, to make it public. In the General Assembly, especially considering the problems that may be faced in providing qualified teachers -- it is mandatory in social sciences -- let the Anatolian Imam-existencies be mandatory for a while longer, let the rest of them continue to choose, after the necessary infrastructure has been provided -- maybe there's no need to make it necessary because there's already a serious demand for these classes. Besides, we have courses at public education centers. As of this year, the number of our citizens who have studied Ottoman and Ottoman Turkish in these parts is 175 thousand. Now, when we're discussing this on TV and everything... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Excuse me... would you excuse me for a moment?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0372par0240	Thank you, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0370par0241	You're not gonna let him at all?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0372par0242	Our time is up, we can't allow it, we have a rule. Maybe you can explain later.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0370par0243	Well, then, for a quick thank you...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0372par0244	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0370par0245	Mr. President, I give thanks to our Minister of Development, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, all members of our government, members of the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission president and members of the Plan and Budget Commission, President and members of the Council of Turkey, members of the Grand National Assembly, who have demonstrated their sensitivity to education, and all my colleagues. I salute your grand delegation in the hope that the National Education Ministry budget of 2015 will be a blessing to our educational community, our country, our children, our teachers.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0372par0248	Thank you, Mr. Hunter. Against him, on behalf of Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0373par0252	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the National Ministry of Education budget. Let us know that Turkey's current deficit is 46 billion dollars this year, that short-term debt -- a year-on-year -- is 169 billion dollars this year, so we need $215 billion within a year. If there is no production economy, it is not possible to close these gaps with its import economy; it is impossible to split funds into ministries, investments, and the country's development. There's no point in going forward with some data by flipping numbers, saying education is ahead. 18 questions answered in Turkey from 40 questions asked in Turkish; 3.5 questions answered in science from 40 questions asked in Turkish; 11 questions -- I'm talking about 40 questions -- 11 per cent, 6 per cent of math -- can answer correctly. There's a factory, it's not good. Mr. Secretary and the valuable bureaucrats who are interested in education, our material is human, student. You need to teach a student the goals of the basic law of national education. You need to start teaching schools in this country. You can't be a teacher with a KPSS score. I mean, anywhere we choose a machine, an engineer, we only choose people for the human-growing institution with points. It doesn't help that you have so many teachers. 350,000 teachers are waiting for the nomination. The homeroom teacher is sending a message. Tell them to appoint us." he says. The philosophy group is waiting to appoint teachers. I mean, if we take out all these people, we produce them, we graduate them, where do they go? So where can we take the training? What did a valued AKP MP just say in his speech? In Turkish, it is not the language of a nation. Can you imagine? The language of a nation like the Turkish nation is Turkish, the Constitution has its language. It is a language of civilization. It says, "If you go from Vienna to Korea, you only need to know Turkish so that you can get along." says historian Hamilton. A nation has a political limit and a culture limit. Our culture limit is the great Turkish world.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0374par0258	So you're pushing it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0373par0259	Turkish is the language of this nation. Mr. Ministry must have efforts in Turkey to teach Turkish well, to express it well, to form a common dialect. Turkish states, governments, heads of state Antalya have decided to move to the common alphabet. Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan have passed, and there are two other states left. The formation of a common culture as a common geography and the transformation of our cultural units into political unity, economic, trade union... We need to build a Turkish union against the European Union, which we want to enter by combining the Turkish world of Turan Bank, its infrastructure, its money, its labor, its manpower, and we need to increase our resources. I hope, I hope, that the budget will respond to our country's needs and our ministry will be zealous at the point of growing the people we want. I wish you the best of your budget, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0375par0264	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Congressmans, I'm now in the QA section. I'll give the MPs a minute of my word that he's in the system. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0376par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask Mr. Gülluce: How many urban transformation projects have been implemented throughout Turkey? What problems have or have been experienced in this regard? What is your schedule for the province of Kütahya? I ask Mr. Hunter: Do you intend to increase the quota for the appointment of teachers in January and increase the share of technical teachers in this quota? Two: When are you going to fulfill your promise earlier that building painters and printers will be included in engineering and architectural completion training? Three: What kind of work do you have on resolving the victims of school principals and assistants who have been dismissed overnight by your ministry? In this regard, how many of the newly appointed school principals and assistants have been appointed from fellow union teachers? My last question is, do you have any work on improving the rights of the staff in chief? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0377par0275	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0378par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of National Education: He is currently in the press with schools studying Kurdish in Eastern Anatolia. Are these schools allowed by the Council of Ministers or by your Ministry? Who controls the curriculum? Are schools being audited in front and after? Again, another question: the appointment of 1,709 branch managers appointed by the National Ministry of Education on 24 April 2014 was cancelled when the court ruled out. According to this, will the appointment of 1,709 branch managers be cancelled and reassigned? When will the calendar for reassignments be announced? Will you terminate the commissions of the branch manager and appoint a new branch manager with a fair system?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0379par0280	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0380par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like both of our ministers... but, please, I'd like them to answer. One, do they have information on the content of the Oslo agreement? Two: Do you have information on the content of the new agreement package with the PKK? I'm asking our Minister of Urbanism, how much is the price of the much-disputed palace square feet? What's the total cost of the entire Avan project? I'd like to be briefed on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0381par0288	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0382par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Hunter. The manager of the Ergene Valley Elementary School for Real Estate in Çekirdağ Province, Çekır district, asked for $5,000 from outside parents this year to register their children and to deposit this money into an account opened to a person in the Çiçan People'sbank Branch, which was assigned to a person and was assigned a repair job for the Çorü District National Education Directorate. In this case, I'm inviting the Republican prosecutors, and I want you to take the necessary action on this matter. Is it also true that in some schools in the Southeast Anatolian region, students read the so-called anthem of the Turkish flag, the Istrillal Anthem and the Hitabes for Youth, while in some schools, they read the Istikllal Anthem of Intribution, while students read the so-called anthem of the blood-soaked terror organization? Have you made any identification on these schools? If you did, did you perform the procedure, the sanction? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0383par0294	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0384par0296	Mr. President, thank you. My question is a local question, Mr. Minister of National Education. Mr. Minister, it's called Kozan district of Adana, and also -- as a former nahiya, it's called the village now, although it's been wiped out -- there's a Gaziköy district. He had a beautiful, large high school, where he had 400, 500, 600, 700 students every semester because of his long years as a minister. Now, I looked at it recently, she's out of teachers, 43 students in her entire high school. Where there's no student, there's no life, there's no urbanization. So, if you're interested in what we call this Gaziköy, if you're interested in the education situation here, if you don't have a teacher, we'd be glad to see how this student got from 700 to 43. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0385par0299	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0386par0301	Mr. President, I have questions for the Minister of National Education. One: in our training, our Turkish language flag. Is there a change in the policy of national education in Turkish? Two: In the appointment of the principals who won the examination, they changed the notes and said, "You did not fail." At this point, the activity of a union is mentioned. What do you say about that? Three: Unsubstantiated teachers are in serious demand. In February, in the new era, do you consider additional 40,000 appointments in January? Four: One of the most important issues is that in the 4+4+4 system, the mentally disabled are suspended from education after the age of 23. This continues to be a complete failure. Do you have any effort to correct the situation they are in? For example, you had two school promises in İzmir. If you show me the land, the humanitarians are ready to do it. They expect your support in this matter.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0387par0306	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Mr. Captain...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0388par0308	Thank you, Mr. President. I have questions for the Minister of National Education. One: When will the appointment of all 330,000 teachers waiting for the appointment end, and how many years from now? Two: What is the criteria for changing the positions and dismissal of school principals in Antalya? What measure did you take in the appointment of even those who were close to the ruling party, sir, as principal of the school, even those who didn't keep the time of service? And will you consider that the additional indicators for teachers' retirement are 3600? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0389par0314	Thank you, Mr. Captain. Dear Honey...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0390par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Minister of National Education, because he can't account for his mother, his relationship with his father, his relationship with his wife and children, his relationship with his wife, his home, his divorce, his mental breakdown, and his suicide, around 350,000 teachers. And then there's the taxpayers who say they're around 80 grand. Salaries are thought to be a cheap staff employment because they are not trained as teachers, because they lack professional knowledge, but in the east, against Turkey, it is seen as a virus that is haunted by PKK reference, with AKP reference in the West, with national education. Question number one: Since you can't cure 350,000 unregistered teachers, do you think you should recognize your pension before the government can be appointed? If you don't think about when they'll be assigned... Two: parents... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want to entrust my child to the educated teacher." he says.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0391par0322	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0390par0323	Do you plan on getting rid of your salary and giving the real teachers a chance to trust their children in January, February?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0391par0324	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0392par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. It is unfortunate for Turkey, for the future, that Nabi Avcı, who led national education into the darkness of the Middle Ages, to destroy modern, modern, light education, to come to the Ministry of National Education. In his own mind, SEC President Nakshibendi visits his cult and supervises the Koran course. They're very similar. Mr. President, on December 17th of last year, Recep Erdogan is mobilising Bilal and his daughter to reset the money found in his son's house on his way to Konya. Because of the theft and bribery they were caught on December 17th, he relieves a minister, dismisses him, and three ministers resign. The AKP Group is filing a motion to investigate these ministers because they have abused their duties. And then they go out, and they say, "We've been hit." If there's been a coup, why did you relieve them? Why did you file a motion to investigate these? Is that a lie?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0393par0329	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0394par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism, including the beaches of Iztuzu and Sarıgerme on our coasts in Mugla, many of our world-famous beaches are being illegally rented to private sectors, contrary to our Constitution and the Coastal Law. How will our citizens benefit from these beaches, which should be public? Who are the partners of the companies that rent these parts? Those who rent these places with high rents will build these beautiful beaches of ours against the law to get their money back? Mr. Minister of National Education, students living in many settlements have been removed from the Metropolitan Law and village status in Mugla. For that reason, our students are victims, families are miserable. Do you have any work to compensate for the victims of the children of our farmers' families who live around here? Is it true, Mr. Minister of National Education, that in the district of Mugla, a person who had previously been under administrative investigation on charges of sexual harassment and was charged with disciplinary action has been appointed principal of a high school? If so, who is he, and whose family is he? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0395par0336	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0396par0337	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0395par0338	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0396par0339	Before we go to the ministers, Parliament has a tradition and a code of conduct. The bureaucrats and board presidents who come here about the law do not have the right to give reflexes about the issues the MPs say here in Parliament, about the questions they ask, with their physical and facial expressions, and our Parliament does not have that. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0395par0341	Thank you, Mr. Altay. They'll probably be careful. Now, I'm going to promise you, I'm going to give you five minutes, because our time is somehow broken. Five minutes, Mr. Gülluce, you drive.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0397par0345	Mine won't last that long. It'll take a little longer, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0395par0346	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0397par0347	The answer of Alim Izim Bey's question about Kütahya (Kütahya) is: Urban transformation projects continue throughout Turkey in 38 provinces and 128 areas. Continued projects in Kütahya: Construction of 650 dwellings will begin with a protocol with the municipality of Kütahya at the centre on 2 December. The project will be launched at the beginning of 2015. On the other hand, plans have been approved in the ongoing transformation project in Kütahya district of Sunday district of Ahmet Yesevi neighbourhood and have been reached the stage of reconciliation. In addition, all architects, city planners and aesthetics of our ministry have been sent to Kütahya (Kütahya), where no transformation can be done, which protects and protects and protects its culture. The same will be done in Amasya. This study in Kütahya is a long work to continue. And there was a study, a study for the vastly integrated Kütahya, with the participation of scholars, NGOs. I don't know anything about Oslo. I won't be able to give you any information on the cost of square feet of the White House because the TOKI did it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0398par0350	Don't you know anything about Oslo?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0397par0351	I don't have any details, yes. The answer of Mr. Mehmet Erdoğan's question was that it was an open tender under the government's control so that all areas on the coast -- the state would own -- the one who wanted to live there, the one who had a strong wrist, the one who had the power, wouldn't invade the place he wanted.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0399par0353	According to the Coastal Law, where it should be protected, where it should be open to the public; what about these? Let's go together.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0397par0354	According to the Coastal Law, it is already being used. So, he's been given an open contract to run with everyone's bid to prevent a lot of negative things there, and I believe it's true.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0399par0355	It wasn't announced.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0397par0356	So I believe that it's not unfair, that it's become possible for everyone to participate, that everyone can participate, and that those who hold certain power will not be able to take it. It's been used in a democratic way, in a commercial way, by paying the government.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0399par0357	The tender wasn't open.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0397par0358	I believe that's true. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0400par0360	Thank you, Mr. Gülluce. Here you go, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0401par0362	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let me give you a brief piece on regulations regarding the deployment of these Department of Education Directors of the Ministry of National Education. Employee policies are being implemented within the framework of the administration required by the age. This approach takes into account the satisfaction and satisfaction of educational workers, including the needs of service. How are these executives elected -- assignments, extensions of the executives of educational institutions -- those who have completed four years in this situation, 16 thousand -- how are they being evaluated? As such: 25 points by the district national educational director, 20+15, 35 points by the two branch managers of the district's national training director, to extend the mandate of the educational institution which has completed its four-year term at the educational institution; the most senior and senior...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0402par0364	Mr. Secretary, we know about them.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0403par0365	They don't know, they don't know the manager.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0401par0366	Well, there are those who don't, so I'm explaining. ... Two teachers selected by the board of teachers...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0404par0369	Congressmans, please listen to the statement, it's a statement.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0405par0370	Mr. President repeats what we know, answers the questions.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0406par0371	So we're asking you how you're going to resolve the victimology.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0407par0372	... A total of 100 points, 10 points, 10 points by the head of the school's family and vice president, 10 points by the student parliamentary speaker.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0408par0373	Shall we believe it, Hajji?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0407par0374	I'm giving you the transcripts now: 8,156 directors scored 75 and more points as an assessment of the director of the 16,559 educational institution, which has completed its four-year term at his educational institution. The mandate of 4,304 managers has been extended as of September 2, 2014, at educational institutions in which they serve. Again, the term of the term of the 3,463 is extended as of September 12, 2014, to serve in other educational institutions according to their wishes.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0408par0375	What percentage of these are members of the yellow union, Minister? How many of them aren't members of KAMU-SEN?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0407par0376	According to the unions, I don't know the distribution right now, so we'll take it out.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0408par0377	We do, Minister. We'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0407par0378	You tell me.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0409par0379	Congressmans, we don't have a way of talking to each other like this.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0410par0380	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0411par0381	This union has 26 per cent members of the yellow union. All the winners in the education community are over 80 percent.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0412par0382	Mr. President, shall I speak, or shall friends speak?
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0410par0383	Time's up, Mr. President. We'd like to hear it.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0413par0384	Please, Mr. Lawmakers, don't talk to each other. You go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0414par0386	In the postings of assistant managers and vice principals, the training institutions where the newly appointed managers have started the job, and in the educational institutions where the managers have served the four-year term, the current managers have committed suicide. So we're going to give the principal the authority to identify the team he's going to be working with to form a compatible team.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0415par0387	On the contrary.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0414par0388	Now, in these branch managers, I'd like to issue a statement concerning the question of the decision given to the staff of 1,709 branch managers. 284 lawsuits have been filed against the positions of the branch manager who has been found empty in the country's ministry, including the decision to stop the execution of 143/them -- in favour of the Ministry -- that is, the decision has been made to dismiss the case of 3/herbs -- and the decision has been made to be made to stop the execution of 26 (Islamic Union). As you can see, the 146th of the cases are in our ministry's favor, and the 50th of them are against our Ministry; no decision has yet been made regarding the 88th of the cases. In this process, 47 people who have ensured the implementation of individual decisions against our Ministry will be carried out in accordance with the regulation of the written and verbal test scores based on the arithmetic mean of the above-the-point appointment of branch managers. The motion to be stopped in the case launched by ACTIF EDUCATION-SEN demanding that the entire oral exam be revoked has been denied. TÜRK EDUCATION-SEN Ankara 17. The Court of Justice has decided to halt the execution of the trial. This decision has been contested by the district administration court, and will be processed according to the verdict. I mean, if the district administration court is up to it, we'll do what's necessary. Any application for Kurdish schools, which are alleged to have been opened to our ministry until September 1, 2014, is officially, we will open a school for us, we will study in Kurdish. There is no application for it, or it has been opened in another province, with our ministry's knowledge, and there is no school open within its approval. In order for him to gain school status, he must be approved by the Office General of Special Teaching Institutions. But some municipalities are opening institutions in the east and the west. As a matter of fact, a friend of ours is here to discuss an Arabic lesson... I assume you showed it to me.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0416par0392	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0414par0393	A training course opened by Tuzla Municipality, Tuzla Municipality opened an Arabic education course, a pamphlet on its grammar announcement, which was the one you pointed out, the Tuzla Municipality opened. The other one, when you showed it to me -- it was Turkish -- we love you, beautiful man Ahmet Davutoglu. It says there, in our alphabet before 1928.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0416par0394	Yes, in the Arabic alphabet.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0414par0395	That's the best part of these arguments, these Ottoman debates. We have remembered once again that these letters contain many other Turkish letters that are not in the Arabic alphabet, that we used them for eight hundred years before 1928, and that they were originally written in these letters, including Nutuk.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0416par0396	Well, that makes sense.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0414par0397	Yes, the number of paid teachers is 39,000 by December. Now, here we share your concerns about our paid teachers, so their assignment...
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0417par0398	In the east, the PKK enters with AKP reference to the west.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0414par0399	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0417par0400	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0414par0401	I'm just saying to answer your concerns. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've made 30,000 of our last 40,000 appointments, 30,000 of our 40,000 teachers in 23 provinces east and southeast.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0418par0404	Mr. President, we haven't been able to answer our questions.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0419par0405	Mr. Secretary, our time is up. Of course, Mr. Secretary will answer your questions in writing.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0420par0407	Give him time to answer our questions.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0421par0408	They're not responding in writing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0419par0409	He'll answer your questions in writing because we're out of time.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0422par0410	Minister, I'm asking you a question in the third place: I know I have news. I don't know. I don't know.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit04spe0419par0411	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit05spe0419par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We'll continue our seventh round budget talks. The commission and the government are in place. Now, in turn, I'm going to give you a separate reading of the chapters and chapters of the budgets in the seventh round. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will take part in the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 27) EARLIER AND GOVERNMENT 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 51.982,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 259,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.120,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 619,574,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Environmental Protection Services 304.561,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 379,020,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 1,358,916,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2015. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, I'd like to submit to your votes to the chapters of the central management account in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 2,926.035.485.66 Budget Expenses 2,066,879,785,20 Cancelled Grant 620,088,527,72 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 239,067,172,74 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was adopted in 2013 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate will take part in the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 27.75) CAPU AND KADASTRO GENIOR PRODUCTION 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 775,674,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 192,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 775.866,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Deputies of the central management budget of 2015 have been adopted by the National Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the central management account of 2013, the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 757,310,626,67 Budget Expenses 708.425.328.57 Emancipation Expenses 8.789,82 Cancelled Fund 30,885,277,26 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 18,008,810,66 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Departures of the central management account were adopted in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of National Education shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 2,748,076,834 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,358.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 197,165,150 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 59,052,647,516 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 62,000,248,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of National Education has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I submit to your votes that the National Education Ministry's Central Administration account of 2013 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 38,794,319,176,70 Budget Expenses 47,748,463,182,31 Compensation Expenses 9.233.964.516.06 Canceled Fund 246,348,354,74 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 33.472.155,71 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of National Education was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Board of Higher Education shall take part in the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 38.01) THE HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING 1) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 26.460.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 13.958,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 40.428,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 30,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 40.326,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 72,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 40.428,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Board of Higher Education has been adopted into parts of the central management budget of 2015. I submit to your votes that the board of higher education shall take part in the central management account of 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The Board of Higher Education's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 184,788,283,32 Budget Expenses 169,878,827,34 Canceled Fund 14.909.455.98 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 33.882,000.00 Net Collection 52,047,783,17 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Board of Higher Education was adopted in 2013 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement shall be taken into the sections of the central management budget 2015: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.01) DEATH, CHOICE AND CENTER OF RESPONSIBILITY 1) The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 20,932,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.850,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 340.456.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 364.239.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 316,003,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,700,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 320,704,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement is adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement will be transferred to the section of the central management account in 2013: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 310.124.402.00 Budget Expenses 261,164,682,46 Canceled Fund 48,959,719,54 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 245,000,000.00 Collection 263,352,256,55 Rejections 4.041,53 Net Collection 263,348,215,02 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Now, I'm going to have the university's central management budgets for 2015 and the division of the central management account in 2013 read and vote separately. I submit to your votes that the budgets of the universities for 2015, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now I'm going to have you read the income sheets with the grant boards, but I'd like to make a brief statement first. As you know, today the budget of 104 universities and 104 universities will vote for the final account. You know these votes take a lot of time. The budget figures have been voted after reading the first level of functional codes and codes of grants in their insides so far. Similarly, each section is rated separately after the first level of income codes and statements are specified on the income sheets. Each grant and income code in terms of analytical budget classification is the same in all institutional budgets. So in order to avoid repeats and use time more efficiently, I'm going to express the meaning of what code first, and then I'm going to vote after being read by our clerk at each university, only by budget codes and budget numbers. According to functional classification, the first-level functional codes for grants include: Code 01 General Public Service, 02 Defence Services, 03 Public Order and Security Services, 04 Economic Affairs and Services, 05 Environmental Protection Services, 06 Housing and Community Recovery Services, 07 Health Services, 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services, 09 Education Services, 10 Social Security and Social Welfare Services. The first-level income codes on the income scale are as follows: Code 01 Tax revenues, 02 Social Security Influences, 03 Access and Property Influences, 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids, 05 Other Incomes, 06 Capital Incomes, 08 Collections, 09 Rets and Rets. Now I'm going to have college budgets for 2015 read the income boards: 38.02) ANKARA UNIVERSE a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 39,900,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 99.537,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 9.767,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 466,599.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 619,003,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 15,673,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 577.255,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 26.075,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 619,003,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.03) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Middle East Technical University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 53,618,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 69.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.445,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 3.123,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 6.651,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 297.044,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 363,950.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 31.059,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 321,521.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.370.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 363,950.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.04) HACETTEPE UNIVERSITY a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 64,972,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 66,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.301,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 103,774,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 8.949,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 420.204,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 608.266,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 22.213.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 560.190,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 25,863,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 608.266,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.05) GAZI UNIVERSE A) Gazi University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 53,009,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.657,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 90.730.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.944,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 426,781000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 585.11,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 23.798,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 527.735,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 33.588,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 585.11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.06) ISTANBUL UNIVERSITY a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 90,251.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 26,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 17.562,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 106,771000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5.574,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 628,002,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 848.186,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 50,973,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 742,641.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 54.572,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 848.186,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.07) ISTANBUL TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 48.147,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.547,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 6.062,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 265,268,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 327.029.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 27.588,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 289.342,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,099,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 327.029,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.08) THE UNIVERSE OF THE BOUGS a) Boğaziçi University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 46,381.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 9,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.759,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 14.111,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 129,745,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 192.005,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 18.755,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 169,804,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,446,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 192.005,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.09) MARMARA UNIVERSE A) Marmara University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 26.690.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 60,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 11.955,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 26.581.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.215,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 326.312,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 397,813.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 34.737,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 343,220,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 19,856,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 397,813.000 38.10) STAR TECHNIC UNIVERSITY A) Yıldız Technical University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 21.796,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 2,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.863,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,808,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 187.902,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 220,371.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17.268,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 195,452,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7.651000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 220.371.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.11) MINAR SINAN ARTS UNIVERSE A) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 14.367,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.428,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,508,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 90.755,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 110,058,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1.732,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 106,196,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,130,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 110,058,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.12) EGE UNIVERSE A) Ege University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 48,866,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.827,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 90.140.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5.548,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 365.202,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 513.593,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 27.561.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 463,533000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.498,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 513.593,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.13) NINE SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY A) 9 September University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 31,848,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 67,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.761,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 50,368,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.79,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 354,545,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 451,308,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 23.3390.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 397,254,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 30,664,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 451,308,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.14) TRACIA UNIVERSITY a) Thracian University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 20,399.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.198,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 37.096,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.336,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 153.387,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 220.416,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 13.639000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 194,461.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 12.316,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 220.416,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.15) UNIVERSE A) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 27.878,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 59.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.765,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 39,710,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,826,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 261,661,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 336,899.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 29.220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 286.085,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 21.394,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 336,899.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.16) UNIVERSITY OF ANADOLU a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 40,681,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 45,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.767,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,933,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 364.314,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 409,740,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 19,139.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 252,652,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 137.949,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 409.740.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.17) SELCUT UNIVERSE a) Selçuk University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 66.127,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 564,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.134,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 24.124,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,63,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 263.622,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 360.194,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 37,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 302.574,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 20.120,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 360.194,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.18) THE UNIVERSE OF THE Mediterranean a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 15.843,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.813.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 60,293,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.556,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 251,083,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 336.593,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.668,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 305,001000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 16,924,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 336.593,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.19) ERCIA UNIVERSITY a) Ercijas University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 23.157,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.985,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 49,804,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.015,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 235,713.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 315,674,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 15,742,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 284,381.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 15.551.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 315.674,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.20) REPUBLIC UNIVERSITY A) Republican University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 21.877,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 29.232,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.901,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 183,858,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 241.368,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.670,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 216,577,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 12.11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 241.368,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.21) CHIKUROVA UNIVERSE A) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 58.235,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 34,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.332,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 56,99,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,937,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 247.566,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 367.023,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16.995,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 327.375,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.652,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 367.023,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.22) ONDOCUZ MAY UNIVERSE a) 19 May University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 22.743.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6,040.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 44.495,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,751,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 224,901000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 299,930.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17.692,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 265,639.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 16,599.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 299.930.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.23) KARADENENiz TECHNIC UNIVERSITY A) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 27.368,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 50,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.482,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 36,134,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2,900,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 228.925,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 300,859.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 22.633,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 264,487,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.739000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 300,859.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.24) ATATURK UNIVERSITY a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 42.667,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 13,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,007,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 37,794,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.415,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 323.312,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 411.208,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 18,33,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 373.207,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 19,648,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 411.208,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.25) UNIVERSE OF MAN A) Inönü University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 31.726,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 83,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.528,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 52.565,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,849.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 172.791.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 266.542,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.584,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 244.074,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,884,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 266.542,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.26) FIRAT UNIVERSE a) Fırat University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 34,504,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 49,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.648,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 33.883,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,385,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 186.594,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 264.063,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 13.259.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 239,903,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,901000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 264.063,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.27) DICLE UNIVERSE a) Dicle University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 33.033,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.261,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 44,951.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,229000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 184.134,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 270.608,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 10,363,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 248,647,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.598,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 270.608,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.28) THE UNIVERSE OF THE YUNDAY a) Centennial University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 23.356,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.537,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 24.594,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5,981,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 191,804,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 251,291.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 7.239000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 235,189,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 8.863,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 251,291.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.29) GAZIANTEP UNIVERSITY a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 16.303,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 27,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.707,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 28.759,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.069,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 169,553,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 220,418,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.482,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 194,050.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.886,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 220.418,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.30) a) Izmir Institute of Higher Technology 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 12.892,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.214,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,494,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 63.662,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 79.262,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 966,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 76,863,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.433,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 79.262,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.31) GEBZE TECHNIC UNIVERSITY A) Gebze Technical University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 8.720.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.568,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 675,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 65,246,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 77.209,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 689.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 75,229000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,291,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 77.209,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.32) HARRAN UNIVERSE a) Harran University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 16.138,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.553,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 50,169,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,194,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 121,714,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 191,768,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 4.566,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 182.053,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,149,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 191,768,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.33) SULAYMAN UNIVERSE A) Süleyman Demirel University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 17.261,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.485,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 22.168,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.812,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 228.830.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 276.556,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.691,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 253.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 12.282,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 276.556,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.34) ADNAN MANDERES UNIVERSITY A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 14.685,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 4,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.673,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 23.484,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,870.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 153,259,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 195,975,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10.668,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 177,039,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 8.268,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 195,975,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.35) THE UNIVERSE OF BULENT EGEVITY a) Bulent Ecevit University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 13.555,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.186,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 17.787,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2,031,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 128.177,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 166,741.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 9.373,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 146,875,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,493,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 166,741.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.36) MERSIN UNIVERSE A) Mersin University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 14.501.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 90,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,658,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 45,441.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,724,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 163,259000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 229,673,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10.669,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 209,209.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 9.792,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Earnings 3000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 229,673,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.37) PAMUKKALE UNIVERSITY A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 17.652,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 4.087,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.317,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 29.752,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.594,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 179.136,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 233.538,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 19.045,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 204.642,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 9.851000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 233,538,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.38) UNIVERSE A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 11.832,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 18,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.652,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 7.772,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 899.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 128,233,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 153,406,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.556,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 134,348,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5.502,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 153.406,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.39) COCALE UNIVERSITY A) Alexei University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 21.137,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6,063,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 18.217,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.037,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 206,583.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 255.038,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 27.339.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 214,048,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.641000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 255.038,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.40) SAKARY UNIVERSITY A) Sakarya University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 18.717,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 77,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.048,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,694,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 212,912,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 237.448,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 34,973,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 192.085,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,3390.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 237.448,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.41) CELAL BAYER UNIVERSITY A) Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 13.581.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.271,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 11.963,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 873.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 179,551.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 209.244,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.949,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 182.834,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.461,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 209.244,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.42) ABANT UNIVERSE A) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 11.916,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.198,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 9.460.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,431,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 125,454,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 151,459.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.395,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 134.396,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,668,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 151,459.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.43) MUSTAFA CEMAL UNIVERSE a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 14.266,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 112,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.801,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 27,938,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 943.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 136.496,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 184.556,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.625,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 166,408,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,523.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 184.556,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.44) AFYON KOCATEPE UNIVERSITY A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 12.370,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,820,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 28.300,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.307,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 142.094,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 187,891.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.303,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 166,168,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 187,891.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.45) KAFKAS UNIVERSITY A) Kafkas University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 10,710,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 4,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.718,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 13.866,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,968,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 110,389.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 139,655,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 6,031,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 130.042,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3.582,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 139,655,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.46) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSITY a) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 43,787,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.989,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 34,524,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.697,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 135.037,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 220.034,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.498,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 201,063,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7.473,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 220.034,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.47) UNIVERSITY IN NUCRY a) Niğde University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 9.798,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.883,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,399.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 95,429000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 110,509.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5.506,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 101,606,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3.397,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 110.509,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.48) DUMLUPINAR UNIVERSITY a) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 15,706,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 73.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.635,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 3.646,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.565,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 130,654,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 157,279.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 20.025,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 131.542,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,712,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 157,279000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.49) Gaziosmanpasha UNIVERSITY a) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 13.882,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 16,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.307,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 32,589.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,762,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 122.053,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 175,609,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.089,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 161,008,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,512,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 175.609,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.50) STUDIES STUDENT UNIVERSITY A) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 28.897,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.226,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 1,049,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,499.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 129,746,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 164.417,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 9.847,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 146,353,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 8.217,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 164.417,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.51) KAHRAMANMARM SURVIVE UNIVERSE A) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 15.308,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.968,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 33.054,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,118,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 130.092,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 182.450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.968,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5.026,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 182.450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.52) }KIRIKKALE UNIVERSITY A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 12.525,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 2,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.684,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 5.759,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.998,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 132,490.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 156,458,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 7.030.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 142,918,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 156,458,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.53) EXECUTE OSMANGAZI UNIVERSITY A) Eskişehir Osmangazi University 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 21.293,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.380,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 54,179,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,356,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 158.123,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 238.33,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.315,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 213,159.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.857,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 238.331,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.54) GALATASARAY UNIVERSITY a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 8.950.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.066,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.277,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 48,665,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 60.958,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 8.379000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 51.396,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,183,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 60.958,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.55) THE UNIVERSE OF THE EVIL A) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 9.550,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 22,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.226,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 4,800,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,042,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 72,454,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 93.094,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5.492,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 85,504,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2.098,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 93.094,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.56) UNIVERSITY OF KASTAMON a) Kastamonon University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 14.107,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 48,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.245,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.055,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 74,116,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 92.571.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3.214,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 86,826,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,531.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 92,571.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.57) UNIVERSE A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 9.286,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 18.428,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,788,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 89,376,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 121,538,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,971,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 115.422,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3.145,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 121,538,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.58) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY a) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6.173,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.542,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.973,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 83,831,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 96,519.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 89,899.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 96,519000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.59) THE UNIVERSE A) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 8.798,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 4,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,299.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 76,869,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 89,470.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5,274,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 81.636,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 89,470.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.60) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE A) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 7.558,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 12,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.258,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 1,669,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,458,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 96,480.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 110.435,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 4.496,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 100,684,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5.255,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 110.435,000 38.61) NAMI KEMAL UNIVERSE A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 8.464,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 2,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.195,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 23.518,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.036,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 103,899.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 142.114,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 6,209,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 132,181000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3.724,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 142.114,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.62) ERZINCAN UNIVERSITY A) Erzincan University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 12.397,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 2,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,762,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 927,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 83,213.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 98.301,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.576,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 91,670,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3.055,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 98.301,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.63) AKSARAY UNIVERSITY 2) Aksaray University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 5.115.700 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 4.078 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.537,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.375.990 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 77.949.232 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 87.982,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 4.028,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 82,810.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.144,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 87.982,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.64) THE UNIVERSE OF ENTERMENT a) Giresun University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 9.095,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 5.675,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 920,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 84,394,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 102,854,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3.212,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 94,516,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5.126,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 102,854,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.65) HETIT UNIVERSITY A) Hitit University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 7.368,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 41,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.731.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.867,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 80.525,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 94.532,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 90,059,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,063,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 94.532,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.66) BOZOK UNIVERSE 2) Bozok University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 14.249,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 12,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.967,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 16,853,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 641.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 73,628,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 107,350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,284,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 101,930.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,136,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 107,350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.67) THE UNIVERSE OF ADIYAMAN 2) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 10. 983.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 6,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.332,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 5.374,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.993,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 81.230.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 102,918,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.720.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 97,178,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2.019,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 102,918,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.68) ORDU UNIVERSITY 2) Army University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 8.281.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 1,374,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 941.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 71,944,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 85,240,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.928,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 79,11,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,201,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 85.240,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.69) AMASIA UNIVERSITY 2) Amasya University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 7.33,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.401,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 335,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 60,933,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 70.972,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,741.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 66,641.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.590.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 70.972,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.70) CENTURY UNIVERSE 2) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 6.332,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 22,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,466,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.833,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 53,710,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 65,363,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.108,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 61,401,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 854,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 65,363,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.71) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE A) Pain İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6,873,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,826,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 584,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 59,105,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 68,389.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.734,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 65,056,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,599.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 68,389.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.72) SINOP UNIVERSE a) Sinop University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 7.464.999 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,532,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.142.001 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 46,798,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 58.937,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,499.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 56,427,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,011.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 58.937,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.73) CIRT UNIVERSE A) Siirt University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6.554,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,050,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 826,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 54,818,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 64.248,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.122,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 62,031000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,095,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 64.248,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.74) NUCHIHIHELVES VICTIM UNIVERSE A) Nevşehir Haci Bektaş Veli University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 12.186,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,743.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 10.035,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 55,323.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 79.287,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 74,849.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,738,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 79.287,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.75) CONTROL UNIVERSE A) Karabük University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 9.270,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 40,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.662,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.542,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 101,007,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 116,521.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5.265,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 107,400,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,856,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 116,521.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-12-17sit06spe0419par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our seventh round budget talks. The commission and the government are in place. 38.76) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 A) Kilis University of December 7th 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 7.880.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 18,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,300,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,664,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 45,713000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 56.575,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2.152,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 52,953,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,470.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 56.575,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.77) THE UNIVERSE OF CHUNKIRI KATEKIN A) Çanırı Karatekin University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 11.476,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 15,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.786,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 625,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 61,723,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 76,625,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.366,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 72,203,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,056,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 76,625,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.78) ARVIN UNIVERSITY OF CORUH A) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6.890.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 12,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,480,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 889.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 53.324,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 62.955,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,870.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 59.945,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,140,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 62.955,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.79) THE UNIVERSE OF BILECTIC HEITH A) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6.734,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.283,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 548,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 61,201,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 70,785,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.005,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 66,058,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.722,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 70.785,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.80) BITIS EREN UNIVERSE a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 7.445,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.364,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 583.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 53,892,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 64,284,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempts and Property Profits 914,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 62,491000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 879.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 64.284,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.81) THE UNIVERSE OF RIVERSALS A) Cırklareli University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 5.989,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,950.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 975,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 67,904,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 76,818,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,889,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 69,904,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2.025,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 76,818,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.82) OSMANIA SCARED ATA UNIVERSITY A) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 8.666,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 14,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,740,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.759,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 50,452,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 63,631.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2,639.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 60,19,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 873.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 63,631.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.83) BINGO UNIVERSITY a) Bingol University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 10,474,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,815,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 747,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 64,889,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 77.935,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 75,729000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 666,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 77.935,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.84) MUDI ALPARSLAN UNIVERSITY A) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 8.128,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 56,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.018,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 59,861.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 71,783,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 739.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 69,267,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.777,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 71,783,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.85) MARDIN UNIVERSE UNIVERSE a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 8.336,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 18,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.365,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 732,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 60.321.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 71,772,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 77,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 70.065,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 910.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 71.772,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.86) BATMAN UNIVERSITY A) Batman University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 10,745,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 219000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.125,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 798,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 56.206,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 70.093,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,670,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 67,980.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 353,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 70.093,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.87) ARDAHAN UNIVERSE a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 5.169,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.664,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 549.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 47,760.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 55.142,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences 53,381000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 561.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 55.142,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.88) THE UNIVERSE OF BARTIN a) Bartın University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6.034,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 25,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,166,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.808,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 57,642,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 67,675,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,968,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 64,466,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,241000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 67,675,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.89) MRBURT UNIVERSITY A) Bayburt University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6.655,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,570.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 494,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 47,973,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 56,702,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,104,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 53,963,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 635,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 56,702,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.90) STRIKE UNIVERSITY A) Gümühane University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6.910,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 25,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 875,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 71,617,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 82.077,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.908,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 76,725,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,444,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 82.077,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.91) THE RIGHTS UNIVERSE a) Hakkari University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 9.190,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,612,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 7333,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 29.086,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 40,621.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 456,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 39,606,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 559.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 40.621.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.92) STRIKE UNIVERSE A) Iğdır University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 5.573.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 132,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,401.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 883.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 40.343,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 48.332,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 723.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 46,968,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 641.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 48.332,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.93) SIRNAK UNIVERSE a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 7.102,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,113,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 358,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 45.312,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 53,885,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 605,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 52,872,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 408,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 53,885,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.94) TUNCEL UNIVERSITY A) Tunceli University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 7.853,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 139.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.467,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 939.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 49.836,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 61.234,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 58,663,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 901,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 61.234,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.95) YALOVA UNIVERSE A) Yalova University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6.380,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 7,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,264,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.345,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 60,007,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 69,003,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 934,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 66,570.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,499.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 69,003,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.96) Turkish German University A) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 4.625,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 34,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 607,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 660,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 19,953,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 25.859.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 12,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 25,805,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 42,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 25.859.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.97) YEDIRIM BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY A) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 12.638,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.775,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,408,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 72,552,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 88.384,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 883.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 86,934,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 567,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 88.384,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.98) BURSA TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 4.674,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 780,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.556,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 28.612,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 35.622,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 35,476,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 145,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 35.622,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.99) ISTANBUL UNIVERSE a) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 6.616,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 960,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.297,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 46,867,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 55,740.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 153,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 55,444,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 143,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 55,740.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.01) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT a) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 7.335,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,080.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 70,709,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 79,874,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 78.307,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,347,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 79,874,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.02) THE UNIVERSE OF NECMETIN A) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 10.324,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.272,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 45,489.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 613.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 136,518,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 194.216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 6.846,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 181,100,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,270,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 194.216,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.03) U.S.A. GÜL UNIVERSITY a) Abdullah Gul University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 7.066,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 900,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.492,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 49,243,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 60,706,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 60,680.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 23,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 60,706,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.04) ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 5.173,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 16,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 869.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,205,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 38,948,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 46,211.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 36,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 46,093,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 82,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 46,211.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.05) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOJI a) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 8.197,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 26,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 784,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 792,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 38.442,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 48.241.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 48.195,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 32,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 48.241.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.06) ANKARA SOCIAL UNIVERSE a) Ankara University of Social Sciences Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 2.250,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 32,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 513.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 6.731,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 16,350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 26.326,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 26.305,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 21,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 26.326,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of colleges' 2015 budgets have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the university's final accounts of 2013 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, I'm going to read the exponential sums of the exponentials and the B tablets at the university: 38.02) ANKARA UNIVERSE B) Ankara University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 555-967.897,71 Budget Expenses 533.037.760.38 Canceled Fund 22.929,513,28 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 3.002.773.33 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 518.557,000.00 Collection 538.339.717.84 Ret and Returns 263,093,41 Net Collection 538,076,624,43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.03) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Middle East Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 346,959,877,12 Budget Expenses 329.732.917.98 Canceled Fund 17.123.294.08 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 263,445,79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 317,423,000,00 Collection 345.763.780.88 Ret and Returns 843.405.58 Net Collection 344,920,375,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.04) HACETTEPE UNIVERSITY B) Hacettepe University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 523,528,687,93 Budget Expenses 539.798.397.21 The grant goes to 36,813,450,76 Canceled Fund 20,516,862.08 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 26,879,40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 503.622,000.00 Collection 529,783,621,27 Ret and Returns 580,867,77 Net Collection 529.202.753,50 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.05) GAZI UNIVERSE B) Gazi University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 521,181,552,44 Budget Expenses 458.123.694.42 Cancelled Fund 63,057,858,02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 483,298,500,00 Collection 485,871,020,77 Ret and Returns 1,072,588.08 Net Collection 484.798.432.69 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.06) ISTANBUL UNIVERSITY B) İstanbul University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 801,917,609,21 Budget Expenses 718.805.445.40 Canceled Fund 83.077.548.17 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 34,615,64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 713,478,000,00 Collection 737,277,542,64 Ret and Returns 256,153,93 Net Collection 737.021.388,71 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.07) ISTANBUL TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 384,884,670,67 Budget Expenses 364.555.814.43 Canceled Fund 19,746,380,63 Transferred to the Next Year 2.623.100,36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 307.135,000.00 Collection 385.621.446.11 Ret and Returns 492.131.70 Net Collection 385.129.314,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.08) THE UNIVERSE OF THE BOUGS B) Bosporus University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 189,855,629.03 Budget Expenses 169,267,560,18 Canceled Fund 20.501.234.52 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 4.826.894.33 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 169,577,000.00 Collection 180.493.481.75 Ret and Returns 260.793.99 Net Collection 180.232.687,76 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.09) MARMARA UNIVERSE B) Marmara University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total Payment 422,075,357,06 Budget Expenses 359.680.152.64 Cancelled Fund 62.395.204.42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 340.288,000.00 Collection 325,539,040,30 Ret and Returns 964.107.92 Net Collection 324,574,932,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.10) STAR TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Star Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total Payment 203,91,669,56 Budget Expenses 195,511,907,22 Canceled Fund 8.399.762.34 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 91,560,14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 177,744,000.00 Collection 194.135.534.74 Ret and Returns 310.557.75 Net Collection 193,824,976,99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.11) MINAR SINAN ARTS UNIVERSE B) Architect Sinan Fine Arts University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 104,006,790,29 Budget Expenses 85.968.562.77 Canceled Fund 18,017,676,88 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 20,550,64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 95,285,000.00 Collection 94.462.107.27 Denied and Returned 51,436,35 Net Collection 94.410.670.92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.12) EGE UNIVERSE B) Ege University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 487,714,107,28 Budget Expenses 466.987.300,47 Canceled Fund 20,726,806,81 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 443,461000,00 Collection 476,868,860,52 Ret and Returns 398.173.52 Net Collection 476,470,687.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.13) NINE SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY B) 9 September University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total Payment 425,063,021,82 Budget Expenses 392.693.477.89 Canceled allowance 32,369,543,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 385,654,000.00 Collection 417.031.830.25 Ret and returns 2,847,73 Net Collection 417.028.982.52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.14) TRACIA UNIVERSITY B) Thrace University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total Payment 202.296.080,41 Budget Expenses 179.384.430.65 Canceled Fund 22.91,649,76 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 178,653000,00 Net Collection 177.330.647.73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.15) UNIVERSE B) Uludağ University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 339,182,728,44 Budget Expenses 302.023.337.55 Canceled Grant 37,097,791,26 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 4.493,267,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 290.992,000.00 Collection 277.153.549.22 Ret and Returns 426,487,79 Net Collection 276,727,061,43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.16) UNIVERSITY OF ANADOLU B) Anadolu University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 424,542,389,87 Budget Expenses 397,721,844,32 Cancelled Grant 26,820,400,72 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 144.83 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 359.822,000.00 Collection 465,444,576,94 Ret and Returns 147.066.56 Net Collection 465,297,510,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.17) SELCUT UNIVERSE B) Selçuk University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 368,745,805,44 Budget Expenses 315.458.373.15 Canceled Fund 53,287,432,29 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 330,284,000.00 Collection 327.140.716.23 Ret and Returns 1,073,876,25 Net Collection 326.066.839.98 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.18) THE UNIVERSE OF THE Mediterranean B) Mediterranean University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 295,427,731,61 Budget Expenses 259.016.998.08 Canceled Grant 36,410,733,53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 271,643000,00 Collection 266,006,941,89 Ret and Returns 525.013.07 Net Collection 265,481,928,82 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.19) ERCIA UNIVERSITY B) Ercijas University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 291,786,665,93 Budget Expenses 282.328.427.69 Emancipation Expenses 284,972,26 Canceled Fund 9.739.135.37 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 4.075,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 253,922,000,00 Collection 289,645,679,65 Ret and Returns 165,006,51 Net Collection 289,480,673,14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.20) REPUBLIC UNIVERSITY B) Cumhuriyet University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total grant 220,368,329,37 Budget Expenses 204.324.729.25 Canceled Fund 16,043,600,12 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 195,164,000.00 Collection 212,200,899,40 Rejections 575.424.97 Net Collection 211,625,474,43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.21) CHIKUROVA UNIVERSE B) Çukurova University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 319.038.516.67 Budget Expenses 282.308.823.50 Cancelled Grant 36,669,460,81 Transferred to the Next Year: 60.232.36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 285,453,000,00 Collection 286.960.329.11 Ret and Returns 412.103.38 Net Collection 286,548,225,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.22) ONDOCUZ MAY UNIVERSE B) 19 May University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total Payment 279,749,213,23 Budget Expenses 256,787,467.06 Cancelled Fund 22.961,746,17 Transferred to the Next Year 3.362.323.28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 248,578,000,00 Collection 271,100,913,73 Ret and returns 69.024.82 Net Collection 271,031,888,96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.23) KARADENENiz TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 286,408,643,45 Budget Expenses 259.776,350,58 Cancelled Grant 36,632,292,87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 248,741.000,00 Net Collection 247,479,759,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.24) ATATURK UNIVERSITY B) Ataturk University Central Management Account for 2013 Total allowance 436.672.491.63 Budget Expenses 387.775.999.36 Canceled allowance 48,878,842.27 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 17.650.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 364.043.000.00 Collection 385.399.610.09 Ret and Returns 1,333,795,66 Net Collection 384.065.814.43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.25) UNIVERSE OF MAN B) Inönü University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 260.601.823.17 Budget Expenses 234.432.753.42 Canceled Fund 26.169.069.75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 217.904,000.00 Collection 227.309.469.58 Ret and Returns 232.485,40 Net Collection 227,076,984,18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.26) FIRAT UNIVERSE B) Firat University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 244.136.808.80 Budget Expenses 216.481.692.81 Canceled Fund 27,655,115,99 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 2.299.050.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 216.998,000.00 Collection 230,487,090,43 Rejections 82,946,40 Net Collection 230.404.144.03 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.27) DICLE UNIVERSE B) Dicle University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total grant 268,936,929,39 Budget Expenses 253,428,444,12 Canceled Fund 15,508,485,27 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 224.194,000.00 Collection 240.351.534.75 Rejections 359.546.08 Net Collection 239.991.988.67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.28) THE UNIVERSE OF THE YUNDAY B) Centennial University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total grant 251,990,701,02 Budget Expenses 229,603,253,47 Canceled Fund 22.387.447.55 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 211,946,000.00 Collection 234.213.976.69 Rejections 214.329.99 Net Collection 233.999.646.70 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.29) GAZIANTEP UNIVERSITY B) Gaziantep University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 203,452.207,13 Budget Expenses 190.616.476.09 Canceled allowance 12.835.731.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 182.197,000.00 Collection 191,675,398,64 Ret and Returns 252.583.07 Net Collection 191,422,815,57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.30) B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 78,081,207,89 Budget Expenses 75,595,447,13 Canceled Fund 2,485,760,76 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 53,683,25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 71,160,000.00 Collection 77,500,924,68 Rejections 4.747.00 Net Collection 77,496,177,68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.31) GEBZE HIGH TEKNOLOGY INSTITUTION B) Gebze Institute of High Technology Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 68,274.288.00 Budget Expenses 66.420.692.31 Cancelled Fund 1,853,595,69 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 539.682.05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 61,851.00 Net Collection 67,578,572,81 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.32) HARRAN UNIVERSE B) Harran University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 181,202,281,44 Budget Expenses 165,956,599,79 Canceled allowance 15.245.681.65 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 138.228,000.00 Collection 156,738,701,55 Refuge and Returns 30.572.30 Net Collection 156,708,129,25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.33) SULAYMAN UNIVERSE B) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Account for 2013 Total allowance 283,539,295,12 Budget Expenses 269.553.710.21 Refund Expenses 22.085.319.43 Cancelled Grant 36,041,782,67 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 29.121.67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 242.669.000.00 Collection 270,858,788,11 Ret and returns 84,707,73 Net Collection 270,774.080,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.34) ADNAN MANDERES UNIVERSITY B) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 180.121.231.40 Budget Expenses 172.743.734.27 Canceled Fund 7,377,497,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 159,519.000,00 Collection 173,143,042,40 Ret and returns 220,002,50 Net Collection 172.93.039.90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.35) THE UNIVERSE OF BULENT EGEVITY B) Blunt Ecevit University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 158,217,493,92 Budget Expenses 136.593.163.17 Canceled Fund 21,624,330,68 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 0.07 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 131,612,000,00 Collection 143,343,793,15 Rejections 5,460,70 Net Collection 143,338,332,45 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.36) MERSIN UNIVERSE B) Mersin University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 222.489.589.66 Budget Expenses 209.643.663.09 Cancelled Fund 12.647.518.05 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 198,408,52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 203,792,000.00 Collection 214,707,739,13 Ret and Returns 159.792.07 Net Collection 214,547,947,06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.37) PAMUKKALE UNIVERSITY B) Pamukkale University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 227,507,615,05 Budget Expenses 220.372.489.30 Canceled Fund 7,132.327,73 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 2.798.02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 181,668,000.00 Collection 211.559.733.30 Ret and Refund 66,811,28 Net Collection 211.492.922,02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.38) UNIVERSE B) Balıkesir University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 168,303,588,56 Budget Expenses 160,347,632,26 Canceled allowance 7.95,956,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 128,323.000.00 Collection 150.999.335.47 Ret and Returns 284.705,82 Net Collection 150,714,629,65 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.39) COCALE UNIVERSITY B) Alexei University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 236,137,141,28 Budget Expenses 218,651,527,48 Canceled Fund 17.460.263.80 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 25.350.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 215,569.000.00 Collection 214,386,330,71 Ret and returns 504.763.18 Net Collection 213,881,567,53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.40) SAKARY UNIVERSITY B) Sakarya University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total Payment 224,108,678,13 Budget Expenses 212.926.716.87 Canceled allowance 11.065.002.06 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 116,959,20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 198.992,000.00 Net Collection 222.996.213.38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.41) CELAL BAYER UNIVERSITY B) Celal Bayar University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 189,978,020,66 Budget Expenses 170,672,866,40 Canceled Fund 19.304,433,82 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 720,44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 174.329.000.00 Collection 185,327,990,16 Ret and Returns 565.196.92 Net Collection 184.762.793,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.42) ABANT UNIVERSE B) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 153,510,048,78 Budget Expenses 147,178,638,07 Canceled Fund 6,331,410,71 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.079.438.59 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 131.032,000.00 Collection 143,552,581,40 Refuge and Returns 128,459,04 Net Collection 143,424,122,36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.43) MUSTAFA CEMAL UNIVERSE B) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 167,592.044,59 Budget Expenses 150.934.021.55 Canceled Fund 14.528.823.04 Transferred to the Next Year 2.129.200.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 144.728,000.00 Collection 158.906.850,20 Ret and returns 325,003,30 Net Collection 158,581,846,90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.44) AFYON KOCATEPE UNIVERSITY B) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 185,476,851,30 Budget Expenses 172.635.614.69 Canceled Fund 12,841,235,42 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 156,839.000.00 Collection 172.976.059.69 Ret and Returns 200,354,16 Net Collection 172.775.705.53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.45) KAFKAS UNIVERSITY B) Kafkas University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 125,081,363,95 Budget Expenses 107,730,508,14 Canceled Fund 17.350.664.63 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 191.18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 107,834,000.00 Collection 103,554,551,62 Ret and returns 38,787,18 Net Collection 103,515,764,44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.46) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSITY B) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2013 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 194.563.424.37 Budget Expenses 183,781,995,25 Canceled Fund 10,781,429,12 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 157.906,000.00 Collection 176,922,894,23 Rejections 390.322.20 Net Collection 176,532,572.03 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.47) UNIVERSITY IN NUCRY B) Niğde University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total Payment 100,001,125,38 Budget Expenses 91,974,099,02 Canceled Fund 8.027.026,36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 88,910,000.00 Collection 88,924,149,62 Ret and Returns 308,798,27 Net Collection 88,615,351,35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.48) DUMLUPINAR UNIVERSITY B) Dumlupınar University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 172.444.704.66 Budget Expenses 150,978,355,46 Canceled Fund 21,466,349,20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 127,511.000,00 Collection 166,765,570,34 Rejections 40,623,40 Net Collection 166,724,94,94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.49) Gaziosmanpasha UNIVERSITY B) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 155,580,645.00 Budget Expenses 139,756,067,80 Canceled Fund 15,823,875,60 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 701.60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 134.227,000.00 Collection 132.932.091,01 Ret and returns 24,523,61 Net Collection 132.907.567.40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.50) STUDIES STUDENT UNIVERSITY B) Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 153,004,739.03 Budget Expenses 149,268,423,90 Canceled Grant 3.720,445,71 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 15,869,42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 131,625,000.00 Collection 146,676,374,41 Ret and Returns 286.794.34 Net Collection 146,389,580,07 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.51) KAHRAMANMARM SURVIVE UNIVERSE B) Kahramanmarash Milker Imam University Central Management Account for 2013 Total allowance 197,323,481,68 Budget Expenses 184.293.050,84 Canceled allowance 13.030.430.84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 174,170,000.00 Net Collection 182.493.558.55 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.52) }KIRIKKALE UNIVERSITY B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 167,072,621,09 Budget Expenses 146,693,757,21 Canceled Fund 20,378,863,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 139,770,000.00 Collection 158,457,356,86 Ret and Returns 313,377,27 Net Collection 158.143.979.59 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.53) EXECUTE OSMANGAZI UNIVERSITY B) Eskişehir Osmangazi University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 210.060.680.75 Budget Expenses 202.972.786.02 Canceled Fund 7,087,894,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 184.894,000.00 Collection 189.689.565.06 Ret and Returns 138.69,76 Net Collection 189,550,868,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.54) GALATASARAY UNIVERSITY B) Galatasaray University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 54.835.169.22 Budget Expenses 45,450.320,41 Canceled Fund 9.382.932.34 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.916.47 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 52.792,000.00 Collection 50.089.759.43 Refuge and Returns 51.000,55 Net Collection 50.038.758.88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.55) THE UNIVERSE OF THE EVIL B) Ahi Evran University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 79,834,581,48 Budget Expenses 56.610.084.20 Canceled Fund 23.224,497,28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 69,603,000,00 Collection 66.416.382.65 Ret and Returns 116,155,64 Net Collection 66,300,227,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.56) UNIVERSITY OF KASTAMON B) Kastamonon University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 83,097,473,34 Budget Expenses 77.539.595.85 The grant goes to 2.98 Canceled Fund 5,543,091,05 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 14.789.42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 66,418,000,00 Collection 78,834,096,65 Ret and Returns 10.475,62 Net Collection 78.823.621.03 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.57) UNIVERSE B) Düzce University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total Payment 122.222.059,01 Budget Expenses 99.499.039.73 Canceled Fund 22.723.019.28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 104,014,000.00 Collection 111,043,880,52 Ret and Returns 121,389,78 Net Collection 110.922.490.74 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.58) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 96,640,222,08 Budget Expenses 88,293,608,34 Canceled Fund 8.346.613.74 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 81,885,000.00 Collection 92.241.694,71 Refuge and Returns 24.551.75 Net Collection 92,217,142,96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.59) THE UNIVERSE B) Uğur University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 89,213,968,36 Budget Expenses 76,314,070,74 Aborted allowance 12.891.963.62 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7.934.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 63,799,000,00 Collection 72,441,616,48 Ret and returns 91,626,40 Net Collection 72.349.990.08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.60) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE B) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total Payment 234.121.820,17 Budget Expenses 224.012.387.84 Canceled Fund 10.109.432.33 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 81,450,000.00 Collection 226.752.352,20 Ret and Returns 71,871,12 Net Collection 226,680,481,08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.61) NAMI KEMAL UNIVERSE B) Namik Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 136,658,796,86 Budget Expenses 121,406,273,59 Canceled grant 15,252,523,27 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 114,446,000,00 Net Collection 125,213,876,00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.62) ERZINCAN UNIVERSITY B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance is 100,775,684.69 Budget Expenses 92,853,896,28 Canceled Fund 7,921,788,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 80,270,000.00 Net Collection 97,418,944,16 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.63) AKSARAY UNIVERSITY B) Aksaray University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 84,707,933,31 Budget Expenses 69,869,523,16 Canceled Fund 14.729.087,15 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 109,323.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 66,170,000.00 Collection 72,492.055,56 Ret and Returns 128,869,68 Net Collection 72,363,185,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.64) THE UNIVERSE OF ENTERMENT B) Giresun University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 92,325,977,87 Budget Expenses 80.294.061.45 Canceled Fund 12.031.916.42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 79.066,000.00 Collection 78,379,644,25 Ret and Returns 101.856.11 Net Collection 78,277,788,14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.65) HETIT UNIVERSITY B) Hitit University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 94,283,898,43 Budget Expenses 79.309.573.61 Canceled Fund 14.974.324.82 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 58,871.00 Net Collection 84,605,669,35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.66) BOZOK UNIVERSE B) Bozok University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 102,731,613,86 Budget Expenses 91,327,289,85 Canceled allowance 11.404.324.01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 75,104,000.00 Collection 92,297,335,47 Ret and Returns 16.530,67 Net Collection 92.280.804.80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.67) THE UNIVERSE OF ADIYAMAN B) Adıyaman University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 103,118,771,43 Budget Expenses 89.841.831.02 Canceled Fund 13.256,706,06 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 20,234,35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 77.916,000.00 Collection 93,453,881,48 Ret and Returns 387,722,70 Net Collection 93.066.158.78 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.68) ORDU UNIVERSITY B) Army University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 86,548,590,42 Budget Expenses 71,988,675,76 Canceled Fund 14.559.914.66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 61,484,000.00 Collection 60,286,370,02 Ret and returns 28.152,93 Net Collection 60.258.217.09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.69) AMASIA UNIVERSITY B) Amasya University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 64,524,025,30 Budget Expenses 53,469,379,20 Canceled allowance 11.040.369.62 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 14.276.48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 52,908,000.00 Collection 52,792.731,31 Rets and returns 40.805.40 Net Collection 52,751,925,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.70) CENTURY UNIVERSE B) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 73,357,591,36 Budget Expenses 54,454,596,73 Canceled allowance 18.902.994.63 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 50,934,000.00 Collection 56,456,129,41 Ret and Returns 16.171.95 Net Collection 56,439,957,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.71) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE B) Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total grant 67,574,026,17 Budget Expenses 55,046,595,33 Canceled allowance 12.527.430.84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 52,350,000.00 Collection 53,641,587,59 Refusal 265,60 Net Collection 53,641,321,99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.72) SINOP UNIVERSE B) Sinop University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 58,514,948,89 Budget Expenses 45,506,833,25 Canceled Fund 1,008,115,64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 49,784,000.00 Collection 50.146.686.77 Refuge and Return 9.439,27 Net Collection 50.137.247.50 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.73) CIRT UNIVERSE B) Siirt University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 74,639,063,56 Budget Expenses 59.870.150.37 Canceled Fund 14.768.913.19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 46,963,000,00 Collection 50.196.414.84 Refuge and Restitution 7.520,16 Net Collection 50,188,894,68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.74) NUCHIHIHELVES VICTIM UNIVERSE B) Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 93.881.976.29 Budget Expenses 88,992.943,74 Canceled Fund 4,889,010,55 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 22:00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 59,602,000,00 Collection 69.068.731.09 Rejections and Refundations 44.914.20 Net Collection 69.023.816.89 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.75) CONTROL UNIVERSE B) Karabük University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 112,877,661,22 Budget Expenses 101,857,920,46 Canceled Fund 11.019.728,13 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 12.63 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 90.898,000.00 Collection 116,051,489,49 Rejections and Refundations 226.334.22 Net Collection 115,825,155,27 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.76) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 B) Kilis University of December 7th, 2013 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 52,179,478,35 Budget Expenses 45.921.645.40 Cancelled Fund 6,257,832.95 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 47.088,000.00 Collection 50,253,869,35 Refuge and Returns 24,505,10 Net Collection 50,229,364,25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.77) THE UNIVERSE OF CHUNKIRI KATEKIN B) Çanırı Karateken University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 83.592.432.92 Budget Expenses 77.106.624.76 Canceled Fund 6,411,885,23 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 73,922,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 65,776,000.00 Collection 75.023.335.94 Ret and Returns 182.491,71 Net Collection 74,840,844,23 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.78) ARVIN UNIVERSITY OF CORUH B) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 54,681,441.99 Budget Expenses 50.293.314.53 Canceled Fund 4.388.127,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 49,189.000.00 Collection 51,540,738,58 Rejections 52,701,58 Net Collection 51,488,037,00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.79) THE UNIVERSE OF BILECTIC HEITH B) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 71,185,084,20 Budget Expenses 61.905.837.63 Canceled Fund 9.279.246.57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 55,491.00 Collection 53,216,997,46 Ret and Returns 164.072,64 Net Collection 53,052.924,82 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.80) BITIS EREN UNIVERSE B) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 60.087.952.58 Budget Expenses 52.147.713.08 Canceled Fund 7.940.239.50 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 48,574,000.00 Collection 56.105.319,72 Rejections and Returns 9.820.00 Net Collection 56.095.499,72 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.81) THE UNIVERSE OF RIVERSALS B) Cırklareli University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 70,789,973,65 Budget Expenses 66,483,391.92 Canceled Fund 4,306,581,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 65,863,000,00 Collection 69,006,523,96 Refuge and Returns 20,387,97 Net Collection 68.986.135.99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.82) OSMANIA SCARED ATA UNIVERSITY B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 59,572,000,87 Budget Expenses 57.076.390.39 Canceled Fund 2.495.610.48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 49,861.00 Collection 41,459,315,62 Ret and Returns 30,961,96 Net Collection 41,428,353,66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.83) BINGO UNIVERSITY B) Bingöl University Central Management Account for 2013 Total allowance 67,643,912,12 Budget Expenses 53,779,155,24 Canceled Fund 13.864.756,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 57,880.000.00 Collection 68,469,266,62 Refuge and Returns 17.354,10 Net Collection 68,451,912,52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.84) MUDI ALPARSLAN UNIVERSITY B) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 77.208.343.04 Budget Expenses 70.408.528.20 Canceled Fund 6,799,814,84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 53,938,000.00 Collection 73.101.616.30 Refuge and Returns 75,513.08 Net Collection 73.026.103.22 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.85) MARDIN UNIVERSE UNIVERSE B) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 72,161,369,77 Budget Expenses 68,485,514,98 Canceled allowance 3.587.330,32 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 88,524,47 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 55,449.000.00 Collection 62,876,081,15 Refuge and Returns 3.805,25 Net Collection 62,872.275,90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.86) BATMAN UNIVERSITY B) Batman University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 86,779,600,32 Budget Expenses 66.039.751.05 Canceled Fund 20,739,849,27 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated at 50,070.000.00 Collection 72.631.159.65 Refuge and Returns 17.286,30 Net Collection 72,613,873,35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.87) ARDAHAN UNIVERSE B) Ardahan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 61,459,712,57 Budget Expenses 59,884.038,51 Canceled Fund 1.575.674.06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 43,185,000.00 Collection 54,216,972,35 Ret and Returns 8.478,44 Net Collection 54.208.493.91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.88) THE UNIVERSE OF BARTIN B) Bartın University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 58,174,777,72 Budget Expenses 49.390.527.64 Canceled Fund 8,784.250.08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 48,652,000,00 Collection 49.344.630,41 Ret and returns 34,548,50 Net Collection 49.310.081,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.89) MRBURT UNIVERSITY B) Bayburt University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 41,933,365,18 Budget Expenses 33.387.335.74 Canceled Fund 8.546.029.44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 39,004,000.00 Collection 23.991.323.07 Ret and Returns 3.894.90 Net Collection 23.987.428,17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.90) STRIKE UNIVERSITY B) Silverhane University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 73,676,749,24 Budget Expenses 66,848,355,37 Canceled allowance 6.828.393.87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 67.551.000.00 Collection 74.108.103.68 Denied and Returned 12.251.02 Net Collection 74,095,852,66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.91) THE RIGHTS UNIVERSE B) Hakkari University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 57.019.416.32 Budget Expenses 31,824,173,12 Canceled Fund 25,195,243,20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 51,718,000.00 Collection 30,856,214.00 Refuge and Returns 1,858,50 Net Collection 30,854,355,50 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.92) STRIKE UNIVERSE B) Iğdır University Central Management Account for 2013 Total allowance 63,320,831,08 Budget Expenses 57,098,672.64 Cancelled Fund 6,222,158,44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 57,637,000.00 Collection 61,147,216,41 Refusal 390,72 Net Collection 61.146.825.69 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.93) SIRNAK UNIVERSE B) Şırnak University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 49,720,890,96 Budget Expenses 26.828.298.00 Canceled Fund 22.892.592.96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 45,601.000.00 Collection 47.597.164.86 Denied and Returned 11.921,64 Net Collection 47,585,243,22 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.94) TUNCEL UNIVERSITY B) Tunceli University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 75,359,801,97 Budget Expenses 55,539,898,84 Canceled Fund 19,819,903,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 56,308,000.00 Collection 76,379,854,64 Ret and Returns 74.118.65 Net Collection 76.305.735.99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.95) YALOVA UNIVERSE B) Yalova University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 64,503,950,53 Budget Expenses 51,249,833,57 Canceled Fund 13.254.116.96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 50,431,00 Collection 46,812,641,19 Ret and Returns 120.014,39 Net Collection 46.692.626.80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.96) Turkish German University B) Turkey's German University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 23.438.507.36 Budget Expenses 5,721,180,72 Canceled Fund 17.717.326.64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 23.169.000.00 Net Collection 14.313.140.11 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.97) YEDIRIM BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY B) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 84,588,089,63 Budget Expenses 49,565,987,54 Canceled Fund 35.022.102.09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 59,521.000.00 Collection 77.834.759.69 Ret and Returns 285.536.92 Net Collection 77,549,222,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.98) BURSA TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Bursa Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 35,833,057,77 Budget Expenses 15.986.267.49 Canceled Fund 19,846,790,28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 25,849.000.00 Net Collection 19,786,322,90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.99) ISTANBUL UNIVERSE B) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 56,046,488,93 Budget Expenses 39,446,249,15 Cancelled Fund 16,600,239,78 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1,370.752,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 40.171.000.00 Net Collection 40,812,287,79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.01) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT B) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 79,839,897,26 Budget Expenses 71.937.801.87 Canceled Fund 7.902.095,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 55.547,000.00 Net Collection 72,761,715,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.02) THE UNIVERSE OF NECMETIN B) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 173,910,511,88 Budget Expenses 128,384,476,15 Canceled Fund 25.518.536.67 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7.499.06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 145,364,000.00 Collection 163,590,818,07 Ret and Returns 309.672.32 Net Collection 163,281,145,75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.03) U.S.A. GÜL UNIVERSITY B) Abdullah Gul University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 87,453,221,31 Budget Expenses 55,642.658.22 Canceled Fund 31,810,563,09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 47,73,000.00 Net Collection 56.134.366,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.04) ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 40.359.925.00 Budget Expenses 21.926.351.55 Canceled Fund 18,433,573,45 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 28.958,000.00 Net Collection 34.022.883,11 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.05) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOJI B) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 36,617,076,42 Budget Expenses 22.972.693.28 Canceled Fund 13.644.383,14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 28.389.000.00 Net Collection 31.239.178.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.06) ANKARA SOCIAL UNIVERSE B) Ankara University of Social Sciences Central Management Final Account for 2013 Total allowance 11.265,000.00 Budget Expenses 4,635,211,04 Cancelled Fund 6,629,788,96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Net Collection 9.849.691.22 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Members of parliament, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the seventh round have been approved. We wish them well. The 7th round of talks has been completed. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Thursday (December 18th 2014) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the organisations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
