tbmm-2014-05-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our inspection is done, I'd like to invite our conversational friends out for fresh tea. Reverends... Yes, the first word off the agenda belongs to the Ankara MP Mr. Levent Gök, who wants to talk about the 42nd anniversary of the execution of Deniz Gezmis and his friends. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0002par0016	* Young saplings from a fire forest/carved light from the sun were tough men/Hyrattian smiles that rocked the light/They left before nightfall. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, whom Attila Ilhan had written for them shortly after their execution, we remembered Deniz Gezmis, Yusuf Aslan, and Hüseyin İnan, on the 42nd anniversary of their death the day before yesterday. Forty-two years... almost half an century away, but still remembered for his first day of suffering... With hundreds of young men and thousands of young men at the Surayaka Cemetery and all of Turkey's remembrance of them, these deaths, of course, have meaning and significance, each year on the morning of May 6th, at the time of their execution. The 1968s were the most barbaric days in history, the most hopeful, the brightest, the bravest. Those were the days when a violent revolutionary wave shook the whole world and millions of people stood up and cried out, "Be realistic, ask for the impossible." On such a day and on earth, in Turkey, the Seas also raised the flag of freedom. For the first time, Deniz Gezmiş was taken into custody during demonstrations supporting workers while cleaning workers put wreaths in the Salam Memorial in 1966. As in the early years of Deniz Gezmiş, the division square continues today, 42 years after the execution of the sea, to be banned and to inflict hell on those who broke the bans. We should be so proud! What was the essence of the actions of the seas that led them to the gallows? The seas continued the fight against independent Turkey, with the country's interests being pursued by imperialism. The seas stood up to poverty and corruption, opposed to the other, fought for democracy, for justice, for peace and democracy. They had the courage to fight, and the courage to go to the gallows. Before the sea died, he wrote to his father: "When you receive the letter, Father, I am separated from you. I know you'd still be upset if I told you not to. But I want you to be firm about it; people are born, they live and they die. It's not about living too long, it's about doing too much in his time. That's why I think it's normal to leave early, and my friends who went before me never hesitated in the face of death. You bet your ass I won't either. I'm not helpless and helpless in the face of death. Your son went down that road on purpose, and he knew that was the end of it. And as for Yusuf Aslan, we shall die once by hanging, but you, who hang us, will die every day. He said, and he pushed the stool with his feet. Here is the basis of today's struggle by the Turkish community, which continues the search for justice, democracy, human rights, freedom of the press. The trial of the seas and the judicial process have been taken outside the law and ruled by a political verdict, executions have been carried out. Aren't we experiencing the same illegalities today, under the polish of advanced democracy? This battle is not over, and it will continue to grow every day. For him, half a century after the deaths today, Turkey's democratic forces stand and stand by the seas. For this reason, the life of the sea is not an ordinary life, their death is not an ordinary death, it is not an ordinary day on May 6th. For hatred and revenge, it is the name of the immortality of the three seedlings they broke in order to shape society themselves, May 6th. It's the name of immortality and betrayal, May 6th. May 6th is the name of the three seedlings, young ones, children, and roses whose hearts are full of height and color. For this occasion, I salute all of you, and salute all of you, the Sea Gezmiş, the Joseph Aslan, and the Hussein Believer.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of the city municipalities, which have been closed down on the grounds that the population has been below 2,000. I salute your High Council and the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of their screens. Dear MPs, one of the cities that closed the most municipalities with Law 6360 is my constituency district, Afyonkarahisar. As if it wasn't enough that you deprived our people of their earned rights, by the way, when services failed, immediately excuses began to be made by the authorities of the private administrations in which you handed over the power, such as the staff of these municipalities, many, many, many, many debts. There's a famous proverb where the bride who can't play tells me that my place is narrow, and that's yours. Afyon executives and executives, at every opportunity, explain to the extended microphone, say that their closed municipalities owe them $40m, as if they were a burden to them. But as a result of the law, they take no note of the shares that the municipalities in this town will receive from the Bank of Provinces in five years from 20 million to 100 million dollars a year. Again, many of these municipalities have revenue stores, fuel stations, facilities, farms, vehicles, business machines and plots. They've been transferred to private administration. And their incomes, their values, don't count at all. As soon as they could, the municipalities were already taken away from them, they wanted to sell the very existence of our people. Don't throw away the sale, don't pay off the debt, don't waste the assets of these municipalities. Do not disregard the gains of the years, and donate these assets, the tools and tools used in public service, to the village chiefs. I've told you so many times, don't let God keep you from seeing anyone. The people of these towns have many services and are used to them. The population of 47 of our municipalities, which have been closed since its population fell below 2,000, is now over 2,000. With the closing of schools and the return of our expats, the population of this area exceeds 3 to 4 thousand in the summer. God forbid, if there was a fire, it couldn't be interfered; if there was a water or a sewer malfunction, it would be uninterrupted. We see in villages, there are many villages that haven't run water networks and sewers in years, that have no roads, no deeds, no electricity. It's hard to believe that the county's private administration can't even take care of the roads they have, so they can't get up and serve these municipalities. Apparently, they immediately took refuge in excuses. What happens, by the way, happens to the unemployed workers and the people who are deprived of their services, it happens to them, it's a shame. Dear MPs, especially the ruling MPs; this weekend the AKP will meet in our entire staff of Afyon. You'll be staying at five-star thermal hotels where the opiumist only watches you pass by. By the way, I'm sure a lot of you will come up with a double route that you said you did, but you couldn't complete the repairs. By the way, there is a road from Emirdağ to Antalya, which shortens the distance from more than 100 kilometers to Emirdağ-Bolvadin-Chay-Dinar-Porsuma junction. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to send the Minister of Transport to see if there's a double road, and I've said it over and over again, where there are fatal accidents and economic losses. If the authorities show up, I'd like you to see the heartbreaking condition of the SECA land that you sold in our Tea County, where 1,500 families used to eat bread, under the name of extortion privatisation, which is now closed. I told you, many of you will come by land, there are hundreds of thousands of passengers at Victory Airport, where you claim to have done it for us. So it's not functional or useful to anyone. If Mr. Prime Minister asks the Minister of Transport how many passengers are taking advantage of this airport a year, and how many passengers do we pay for? Dear lawmakers, you will come to Afyon, your seats are ready in five-star hotels, a hospitable province, but not until you go to hotels, before you go to the people, until you visit Afyon. There's an Olympic swimming pool 50 meters from the hotel where you're staying, no athletes in the garden, sheep and veal grazing. A swimming pool is completely thrown out. And I want you to see this facility that's been left to rot, no matter who and whenever he's done it. Yi, there's a museum building on this side of this Olympic swimming pool that hasn't been nailed down in over a year. I'm inviting the Minister of Culture, by the way. The buildings, housing and warehouses of the State Supplies Office, where you shut them down in Opium, where you trashed their staff, and the state hospital's situation is heartbreaking, and it has become the home of those who use drugs and thinners. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, by the way, I want you to remember our 25 martyrs who drank the sherbet because of the explosion, which has yet to be known. I salute your high council, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. İsmail Kashdemir (Ismail Kashdemir) MP Çanakkale who asked about the flood that occurred in Gökceada. Here you go, Mr. Kashdemir.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0006par0048	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise due to the flood in Gökceada. On this occasion, I salute you with respect. At the beginning of my words, on May 5th, I offer my condolences to our three soldiers, who were killed in an accident, to God's mercy, to their families and to our nation. I wish for immediate healing to our soldiers who were injured in the same accident. One of our fallen soldiers, from the village of Bayramic Alakechi, to our fellow resident, Special Sergeant Halil Karatas, I offer once again the blessing of God from this stand, and my condolences to his relatives, his family. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there has been a flood of heavy rain in our district of Gökceada last May 2nd. Within four hours, more than 150 kilograms of rain fell on the square meter, especially in the center of Gökceada. Once again, I wish our fellow Gökçaadas a great deal of well-being. Of course, our greatest consolation here, our only consolation, and what we are thankful for is that the loss of life did not occur. I also find it useful to point out that the rains that have come to the surface are a rain that has not occurred in Gökceada's history for many years. Just a day after the flood, we went to Gökçaada, with our governor and our relevant bureaucrats, and we saw the disaster in its place. The view wasn't really good. Almost all the shops and businesses in the center of the galaxy have been flooded, even many homes, and many financial damage has occurred. At the Small Industrial Site, their stores flooded, and many materials, machines, and equipment were useless. Our tradesman in particular is a victim of a great deal. In the same way, some agricultural land and a brand of Gökceada, an organic farming farm, were also severely damaged by the flood. We've seen cars affected by the flood, and many cars become unusable. Gökçeada is a town where tourism has been very lively lately. Hundreds of thousands of local and foreign tourists are coming to the island. In fact, at the time of the flood, we have found that foreign tourists were also affected by the flood. In preparation for the tourist season, islanders, especially our tradesmen, have increased the financial damage of the flood at a time when they fill their stores with their goods to prepare for the season. Damage detection commissions have arrived on the island shortly after the flood and have done necessary damage detection, damage damage work. The work of damage detection commissions is still in progress, and it is working to compensate for the damage and loss of our damaged citizens as much as possible. Our government is also doing the necessary work to repair our financial losses as much as possible. There has been a specific demand for the impact of general life on this issue. In some areas, the work is also done to ensure that it is a disaster-inflicted area. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a very important place for us in Gökceada. Investments made during our EC PARTY governments made Gökceada a place where no one wanted to go, but it made Gökceada a special attraction to tourism. Mr. President once, Mr. Prime Minister twice visited our district in Gökceada. Therefore, we will not leave Skyceada alone again, and we will not leave Gökceada to her fate. We're doing our best to provide assistance and convenience for the needs of our tradesman. We've been monitoring our work closely to minimize damage to those who have been harmed. As for the reformation of the stream, which is thought to have caused the flood, if our municipality there can deliver the stream to the DSI at the juncture point, ready to reform... the DSI officials have launched the necessary work on reforming the stream. Mr. President, the highly valued lawmakers have shown a great deal of solidarity and co-operation in order to ward off the flood damage, the injuries of the flood, with the Gökceada people with public institutions, with the municipality, with his tradesman, with his student, with his student. It moved us especially to see college students there helping our citizens who were hurt by the flood with shovels in their hands. In the same way, after the flood, we offer our thanks to the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, the Kızılay, the AFAD, the creamer, and our people in Gökçeada. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, once again, I would like to say from this stand that the people of Gökceada are not alone, and I salute you with respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Kashdemir. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. A review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0008par0065	Mr. President, we had a brief request.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0007par0066	It's okay, I forgot.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0008par0067	It's not over, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0007par0068	No, I really forgot.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0009par0069	But you can give it to me after.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0007par0070	I'll take care of him now...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0009par0071	You will.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0007par0072	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkish Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek (GDAU PA) joined a Parliamentary delegation on 8/04/2014 to Moldova on 8 May 2014, while joining the opening meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of Southern Eastern European Countries (GDAU PA) in Romania on 9 May 2014. The names reported by political party groups to form our delegation are submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/03/1990 and 3620. 1) Seyit Sertçelik Ankara MP [[AK PARTY]] 2) Haluk Ahmet Silver Balıkesir MP [[CHP]] 3) Ali Şahin Gaziantep MP [[AK PARTY]] 4) Lütfü Türkkan Kopeeli MP [[MHP]] 5) Yüksel Özden Özden Muğla MP [[AK PARTY]] 6) Tulay Bakır Samsun MP [[AK PARTY]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The Prime Minister's office has two statements about the rescinding of the bill, and I'm reading it separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: a) dated 19/6/2007 and B. 02. 0. KKG. 0. Article 10/101-1434/2584. B) dated 2/10/2007 and B. 02. 0. KKG/196-279/3766. C) dated 22/9/2011 and B. 02. 0. KKG/101-30/2991. I would like to request that you be sent back according to Article 75 (b) of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Charter, which has been submitted to you in the article of interest (a) and asked to be renewed in writing (c), "Confirmation of the Preferenced Trade Agreement Between the Republic of Turkey and Georgia." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: a) dated 9/3/2007 and B. 02. Him. KKG. 0. It's 10/101-1360/1047. B) dated 22/9/2011 and B. 02. 0. KKG/101-30/2991. In addition to our writing in interest (a), it has been renewed by our writing "The Government of Turkey and the Bank of Islamic Development between Turkey and the Bank of Islamic Development in Africa, I would like to ask that the Enlightenment of Understanding about Trade and Investments in Trade and Investments in Africa be approved by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (b) be sent back in accordance with Article 75. The State Commission's proposals have been reinstated to the government. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It seems our Roman citizens, who embrace their national culture, who own their country, nation and flag, have a rift between them and the rest of our country. Today, this chasm has become even more evident because of the technology that is rapidly moving with sociocultural and economic developments. Our Roma citizens have pressing problems in the use of their civil rights, their culture, the right to education guaranteed in our Constitution, especially human rights and freedoms. I would like to submit to the Constitution's 98th and Internal Charter 104-105th amendments to investigate these problems facing our Roma citizens and to determine measures to be taken, including legal arrangements to be made for them. 30/05/2012 1) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Slap]] [[Elizipt]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Yozgat]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 15) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Paddles]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] In our beautiful country, the Roma brothers and sisters have their own culture with which we live with great happiness and have pressing problems. At the beginning of these problems comes culture, education, and undeserving prejudices. The AKP government's "Roman meeting" has made our Roma citizens only the subject of political abuse, saying, "We're opening for Rome." It's just a matter of resolving the Roma's problems. I'm afraid concrete steps haven't been taken to preserve and preserve Roman culture. Roman education should be especially important. In particular, it is a sad reality where they cannot continue to study after elementary school and after primary school. The children of our Roma brothers and sisters are not able to complete their education because of family and environmental influences. The social and educational studies that Roma women need in their participation in social life are almost never available. There is a prejudice against our Roma brothers that they do not deserve. The solutions to stopping Roma from being exposed directly to discrimination in violation of human dignity should be produced. In social life, prejudices against Roma must be eliminated by organizing various activities and enlightening activities. For reasons stated above, a parliamentary investigation is needed to investigate the problems of Roma citizens, culture, education, and preconceptions they do not deserve. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The rapid population growth of our country and urbanization have also followed the problems of housing and urbanization. The President of the Public Housing and Public Partnership Administration was established in 1984 in order to resolve these problems and reduce unemployment by increasing housing production. In addition to his recent housing, the TOKI also raises issues such as finances of politics, questionable jobs and inferior dwellings. The ceremony of surrenders of TOKI dwellings has been transformed into a show of political power. So the TOKI has been transformed into a government used as a means of political propaganda using public resources. In addition, the high ceremony costs for openings attended by the Prime Minister are alleged to be made by a single firm with close proximity to the Prime Minister. It can't be thought that contractors won't reflect the payments they've made to this firm at the price of the tender. Thus, the costs are on the backs of our citizens who bought a house from the TOKI. For this reason, the TOKI has been transformed into an institution that finances the Prime Minister's meetings. In different counties of our country, it has been stressed that there have been various complaints about TOKI's housing and that executives have found no solution to these complaints. It is unacceptable to conduct an appointment by means of a company belonging to İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. The government continues to exploit the people. As a result, the people here now want to rule themselves. The people want their own governments to take over instead of the government appointed by the TOKI. There are many shortcomings in TOKI dwellings in Bitlis and Diyarbakir Tikkuyular. These are: environmental arrangement, sidewalks, green area, infrastructure, asphalt studies, housing reservoirs, electrical high tension lines very close to buildings, roadwork, landscape, parking and so on. In addition to problems, management lacks public communication. All applications for these trials have not been evaluated and the problems have not been resolved. The housing values are dropping day after day because of problems that have been experienced but cannot be fixed. Attempts have been made by the public to redefine the values of the houses, but so far no results have been received from the TOKI. Our citizens, who are home in installments from TOKI in our country, are having serious problems. With the impact of the economic crisis, there is great difficulty in paying, causing our citizens to suffer the loss of housing from the TOKI. The claims that the infrastructure of TOKI dwellings has been delivered without completion, that housing costs have been upgraded due to the construction of social utensils, that housing management has been seized by pressure, that a large amount of dues have been received from our citizens, and that an unfair gain has been made in this way. Our citizens, who have no hesitation in contracting with the government, are oppressed under the heavy provisions of the contract. Companies in the payments of contractors also have a negative impact on other sectors within the market, causing chain failures in local economies. It is also stated by authorities that the TOKI have legal duties, but it is met with reaction by residents in these areas to buy cheap land and sell it for more expensive prices. There are many examples of this in our country. The people of the region who have made a sacrifice in the hope of building dwellings on land bought by the TOKI are resorting to the legal way of selling the land. In order to prevent this situation, our citizens want a solution. In the course of the process, the TOKI moved to a position with immunity under the Prime Minister's protection. Neither the allegations of corruption nor the suffering of the public. We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to determine the questionable procedures of the TOKI, the issues of surrenders that have been turned into a rally, the problems they've made, and the proposals for a solution to these problems. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 10) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Manisa]] [[Antalya]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The date of May 17 is the anniversary of the massacre of 28 young men on Mount Bezar, located between Adıyaman-Chelikhan. The incident, which left Malatya to join the PKK, still remains unclear that 22 school students and six PKK members who were killed collectively in an operation on Mount Bezar on 17 May 1994, had been killed by chemical weapons, but had not joined the PKK. On May 16, 1994, they told their parents, "We're going for a picnic." 22 young people who left Malatya began to climb Mount Bezar, meeting with six PKK members, according to eyewitness accounts. Young people who spent the night on Mount Bezar woke up to the sound of helicopters on the morning of May 17th. Adıyaman and military helicopters leaving Diyarbakır are flying over Mount Bezar, while the slopes of the mountain are surrounded by soldiers. Six PKK members have begun to engage with soldiers by sending 22 unarmed students to the top of the mountain. Six PKK members were killed as a result of the conflict. According to a very clear description of the three villages set up at the foot of Mount Bezar, the 22 young men left in the middle of Mount Bezar after the shooting were raised to surrender, but all young men were killed by three hours of shelling by military helicopters. A heavy chemical odor is said to have spread after the bombing. After the bombing was over, 22 young people's funerals were dragged along the road, tied to horses and mules, stuffed in a truck box by the side of the road, brought to Adıyaman, 22 unarmed teenagers' bodies, and kept in the police yard for a long time. According to the descriptions, the organs of 28 broken, burned funerals have been placed in cans and held in an open space at Adıyaman Commando Union Station for a long time in order to make an example for the people of the region. Parents who came to Adıyaman to hear the incident wanted to take their children's bodies, but 11 bodies that could only be identified were delivered. Even this conclusion shows how traumatic the scale of the massacre is. The funerals of 17 young people whose bodies were unrecognizable were buried in the Adıyaman Cemetery. The names of the young men who lost their lives in the Bezar massacre include Ali Elçi, Kamber Yamaç, Kamber Yavuz, Doğan Öker, Şükre, Hüseyin İlhan, İsmail Division, İrfan Chinatay, Sheikho Çayır, Mustafa Sincer, Bahri Eknın, Hüseyin Bozkuş, Kamber İlhan, Hüseyin Chihat Kanbabaş, Yusuf Boztaş, Cemal Bağcı, Ferhat Buran, Hüseyin Sarıtaş, Ergün Bozku, Yusuf Bozkun, Seyit Ahmet Özdeş, Günder and Yusuf Güner. The only witnesses who have seen closely the killing of 28 young men are the soldiers involved in the operation. Therefore, the testimony of the soldiers will open the veil of secrecy over the massacre. It has also been said for years that this operation, where young people were brutally murdered, was carried out on a report. It's not clear whether the operation was reported or followed. In order to address all aspects of the massacre that occurred on 17 May 1994, we propose and establish and propose that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the murdered youth families, in order to be identified and identified by officials who ordered the operation. [[Malatya]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 7) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Aydın]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] 18) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] 20) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. According to the 60th article, I'm making promises I've just forgotten. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0010par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. The government wants to remove the State Opera and Ballet, the Director-General of Fine Arts by TUSAK, the Law on Turkey's Art Foundation, especially the State Theatres. THE TUSAK bill will bring a major blow to the art and stagework areas, and artists are anxiously warning. Look, our State Theaters were founded in 1949, and they've been saving sixty-three years. At State Theatres, which have 56 scenes in 21 counties, 623 artists perform 200 games each year with 421 technical staff and 100 new plays, and reach about 2 million viewers a year. In the provinces, towns, villages, they tour 300 settlements, and State Theatres serve as a non-profit public organisation by law. As part of the Social Responsibility Project, 80,000 have reached out to children who have never seen theaters, and have signed off on reading theatre projects for our visually impaired children.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0011par0282	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0012par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow is the 64th anniversary of the Schuman Declaration of May 9, 1950, which laid the foundations of the European Coal and Steel Union. The 1985 Milan Summit decided to celebrate May 9 as the European Day. On this occasion, on November 17, 1949, just six months after the establishment of the Council of Europe, in Strasbourg, I would like to commemorate the European integration and the necessity of its union with the blessing of the Republican People's Party's MP Kass Gulk. Again, our European Union membership process, which began on 12 September 1963 with the Ankara Agreement signed by Prime Minister Ismet Inönul, has completed its 51st year. I celebrate the European Day of our citizens with faith that we will complete the full accession process again with the signature of a CHP prime minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0013par0288	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0014par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. After years of privatisation of the Seyitömer Termic Plant and Coal Company, which has contributed to both our province's economy and employment, in 2012, many of our workers have been left unemployed, unfortunately, because of social events that occurred last month when some of them were laid off. I invite the government to find a solution to this serious problem, calling on the parties to remain calm, requesting that these events be avoided. Otherwise, social events in our province will seriously disturb every sector. I would like to ask the government to approach this with precision and to put an end to the threats of the dismissal of our workers, and I thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0015par0293	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0016par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today is the 4th day of the Justice Watch held by lawyers in front of the Constitutional Court. Why did the lawyers start a seizure like this? Because the prisoners who were tried in the Balyoz case, our soldiers who were framed, as the Prime Minister calls them, were said to have been framed by the Turkish army's patriotic soldiers, but the Supreme Court did not study their applications, nor did the Ministry of Justice have fulfilled their commitments. Therefore, our lawyer friends are on a justice watch in front of the Constitutional Court. I hope the voices of those who stand on this justice watch will be heard by the Supreme Court and by the Justice Department, and our plot victims will be freed as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0015par0297	Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0017par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. At first, I wish you and all mothers the blessings of Mother's Day, which we will understand on Sunday. We see examples of the AKP's lawless understanding, often violating the Constitution, the Civil Code and its legal provisions. We're living in a state where the Constitutional provisions are suspended, the Civil Code provisions, the laws are broken like gum. This understanding also applies to every administration of the AKP. One of them is the process of playing tricks on AKP's Correctional Municipality's own officers. The AKP's municipality of jurisprudence, which was working for bread and business, we transferred about 20 of its staff, who used to be an expert sergeant, to the capital city. They cut off their ties, and did not allow those who were unable to start work at the city hall to return to office. It's a trick game that has victimized our brothers and sisters. In this regard, the ministries demand that these lawless municipalities be forced into law. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0018par0304	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0019par0306	Thank you, Mr. President. In Turkey, 550 districts in Tokat district and 42 municipalities in the province of Tokat district were closed after the 30 March elections, with a population of less than 2,000. However, some of them have over 2,000 populations, but they want the law. Sadly, it has been shut down and cannot be explained. However, garbage is currently not being collected, roads are not being repaired, water and sewage repairs are not being done in the city municipalities closed when the AKP is in power. People are looking for us, blaming the chiefs. The Mukhtars don't have cars, money, employees. The Mukhtars are running to the town hall, but it turns out nothing's going on, they can't do anything about it. The government must do something immediately at the point of resolving these victims. Public opinion expects this because in some places the garbage that threatens people's health is almost over the mountains. Sensitivity in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0018par0309	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0020par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, the World Health Organization announced a report by the International Committee for Emergency Health Arrangements. In this report, he expressed that polio is the size of a new danger in Turkey and in our neighbours and in the world. What is important for us is Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Syria and Israel, where the World Health Organization declared it a risky country and the disease spread rapidly. Because we have tight communication with these countries, especially because of the negative incidents in Syria and Iraq, Turkey has been made a risky country for its disease, due to the lack of control over the immunization of refugees who come to Turkey due to the shortage of civil war, terrorism. A Syrian refugee from the Ministry of Health, both in camps and outside the camp...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0018par0314	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0021par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. We buried Halil Karataş in the village of Alakechi and buried our martyr together while asking for God's mercy to all of our soldiers who were killed in Şemdinli. I also ask Allah to be patient with his family. The AKP, which has been in power for 12 years, has also demonstrated its wrong policies in every area, as well as measures that should be taken against thirst. Due to the lack of necessary measures, he has banned the tripods in Çanakkale, as has been done throughout Turkey this year. The AKP, which completed its mission, will take its place as a party of bans on the dusty pages of history. Now that we've banned the plant from all over Turkey, what foreign countries do you plan to melt the supply of the chips to meet the need? How are you going to repair the damage of our plastic manufacturers? What do you do to prevent thirst and drought? The thirst and drought that endures each year.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0022par0320	Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0023par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. Business Health and Safety Week is a major negative for employees. In 2002, the number of union workers approaching 2.5 million was reduced to 1.1 million by 2014 as a result of ununion. The number of cases in occupational diseases is around 35 to 40,000 cases a year, while the number of cases in the SGK shows around 500-600 cases. In every 100,000 employees in Turkey, the first in Europe is ranked third in the world in mortal business accidents. Between 2002 and 2013, a total of 13.442 workers were killed. Sadly, on average 1,072 workers lose their lives each year due to business accidents. Today, the number of subcontractors with 358 thousand in 2002 has reached 1.2 million.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0024par0327	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0025par0329	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Mother's Day this Sunday. First of all, I kiss my mother's hand. And I offer my love and respect to all the mothers in Turkey and the world. I also hope to build a world where they won't be sad. Yesterday, we celebrated the 90th year of the Republic newspaper. Again, in my country, I dream of building together a country where all institutions, especially the press, can work with free will. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0026par0333	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0027par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. It's our Reverend Mother's day next Sunday. As the National Movement Party, we wish all our mothers, who have passed away, a peaceful, healthy, and happy life, sir. I also found an opportunity to be abroad with the President of the World Uygur Assembly, the leader of the Uygur Turks, Mr. Rabia Kadir. We met. They expressed their gratitude to the Turkish nation, who claimed the issue of East Turkistan. They also sent a request to come to Turkey and satisfy their longing. In this regard, I would like to share with you on this occasion Mr. Rabia Kadir, the opportunity to come to Turkey as soon as possible to catch up with our nation. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0028par0340	Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0029par0342	Thank you, Mr. President. And I, on the occasion of Mother's Day, which is to be celebrated on Sunday, celebrate the Mother's Day of all our mothers, and kiss them all by the hand. Of course, the best gift we can give our mothers may be peace in the process. We wish that no mother of ours, or rather no mother of ours, in Turkey, would live happily with their children, their families, and that peace would come once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0030par0345	Mr. Öpün... Since you are the only one, I give you my word as the 11th person. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0031par0349	Thank you very much. And I kiss the hands of my sick mother, and I pray for immediate healing. Now, in our Ardahan, there are 4,000 students in our university, there are 1,200 dorms. 2,800 of our students are staying outside, in villages and stables, and sometimes in haylofts. The Director General of the Credit and Housing Association says to our university officials: ▪ You are receiving students according to your head. Why are you taking so many students? Mr. President, our territory is an undeveloped, undeveloped region, a major strategic area on the border with Armenia and Georgia. There's a great migration in that region, where you're going to make a home, so that the student can go, the tradesman can win, the farmer can win, the peasant can don't emigrate. Is that an understanding? I would like to call upon the Director General of this Loan and Homes to resign immediately, and I would like to make absolutely sure that this is resolved.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0032par0352	The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 8/5/2014 on Thursday (now), the following proposal was deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. In order of the laws of 462, 440, 447, 267, 420, 202, 120, 121, 58, and 140 in accordance with the Law Bills and Proposals of Laws, 440, 447, 267, 420, 202, 120, 121, 58, and 140 in order of the drafts in order of 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the order of other tasks, It's recommended. There is no request to discuss the Council proposal.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0033par0371	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit02spe0032par0372	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough of a decision to vote on the advisory board proposal. Now, I'm going to repeat the voting process, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Thursday 8/5/2014 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 12 July 2013, Bingöl MP was given by Group Deputy Chair İdris Baluken (3839 rows no. ==Early life==The bones of our compatriots have been found in caves in our Dersim Province, Lach Creek, in the massacre of Dersim 38. In order to face the massacre of my class, the parliamentary inquiry motion for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was proposed to be taken ahead of other motions waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Thursday's 8/5/2014 jointly and co-existed in the same date of the talks. The first word in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Idris Baluken of Bingol, please come in.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0034par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made on behalf of our group. I salute your committee. We, both as the Peace and Democracy Party and now as the People's Democratic Party, have done countless work, brought in group proposals, proposed law, but so far, we have not been able to put the real steps to face this massacre and the solution that this confrontation requires, unfortunately, on the agenda of this Assembly. We hope that this motion that we've made, above all, will contribute to the investigation of these truths and to the fulfillment of the confrontation. We want to say that this contribution will also contribute to the ongoing process of resolution, the peace process, and that we believe that the solution of the Kurdish issue and the democratisation of Turkey will be a serious step in history. Dear lawmakers, we have entered the 77th year of the class massacre, which was carried out on May 4, 1937 by the Council of Ministers. There's a long cabinet decision, and I'm not going to read that Council of Ministers' decision here for long. Since there's not enough time, I just want to share with you here the debate of the decision. The decision of the Council of Ministers, which means that as long as you insist on only moving forward with the offensive, the riot furnaces will be permanently left in place. That's why it's necessary to make those who used guns and those who didn't use them in their place and without harm until the end, to destroy villages, and to drive families away. A decision by the Council of Ministers, summing it up in 1937 and 1938 was given to our people by genocide -- a complete massacre in Dersim (although we define it as a genocide), as the Dersimians call it -- in fact, a genocide. We know that the origin of this genocide was originally based on the Denial, Retributive, Assimilationist Constitution of 1924 and the Admission Terakki mentality. From the beginning of this monotheistic understanding of 1924 to this day, unfortunately, a massacre date has been brought before our people, our people, to this day. In 1925, we want to express that the origin of all the massacres that were committed against the resistance led by Master Sheikh Sait was in the spirit of the Constitution of 1924. When we came here earlier with suggestions on the massacre of Dersim, unfortunately, the MPs of the ruling party and the opposition party had come out here and said that there was a rogue activity in Dersim, and there were measures the state had taken against it, and we had repeatedly stated that this was not the case, that the massacre, the genocide process was a time-expanding plan, and that this plan had been implemented in 1937-1938. Look, the most obvious evidence of this is clearly expressed in the report by Hamdi Bey, who was the republic's elite 11 or 12 years before the massacre in 1926. 1926, I take your attention to Mr. Hamdi's report 11 years before the massacre, where the lecture is a boil for the republic's government. He made the determination and wrote other measures to be taken in his report. Again, in the Joint Chiefs' class reports at that time, the class is ignorant, and the spirit of lust prevails. However, it was a real vision of character, rape, robbery. It was used many years ago. In 1930, Field Marshal Fevzi Çakmak also wrote a report not earned by caressing the lecture, but the intervention of the armed forces is more effective and is the basis of reform, and my class should be compared with more colonies. It's possible to replicate these samples. The interior minister of the period and Ismet Inönun have made it clear that the entire statement of the reform projects of the period had been carried out by the planning of a massacre that spanned 11 to 12 years, and that it had been carried out by military operations in 1937-1938. Unfortunately, all of these processes were initiated by the Council of Ministers and by Parliament's decisions, and unfortunately they were carried out by some legal regulations from Shark Islamic Plan to Law on the Administration of the province of Tunisia, from 1925 to 1935. Syed Reza, a resistance pioneer at the time, was one of the many examples of his son's growing up and being executed as a dictatorial law walker in history. We're not going to talk long here. We will address your conscience on the living testimony of that period. See, Ihsan Sabri Çağlangil, who was then chief of the Malatya Police Department and was also involved in the executions, says: "They did not accept, they defected into caves. The army used poison gas, they were poisoned like rats from inside the cave doors, and they cut down those Kurds from seven to seventy. It was a bloody operation. My class case is over. This is how government authority entered the village and the village. I don't want to mention the name of one of the soldiers who attended the massacre at that time -- one of them had a confession: they were in my class, and they cleaned it up. There was no response. It was just a little bit of looting. Otherwise, they have nothing to do with the government. My parents didn't have any casualties. We did wrong when we were cleaning up. Many of the soldiers who were involved in the massacre at that time, there were creepy facts in their confessions. At that time, the use of bullets for the Dersimians, killing with bayonets, and then killing with bayonets after a period of time, are in their confessions of many soldiers who have been given instructions to kill people with oak rods, so that weapons are not used. Professor Dr. Mehmet Bekkinoğlu's case as a psychiatric physician is like the summary of the period: it's time to explain to me what a patient I saw when I was a professor at the Faculty of Medicine at Black Sea Technical University 14 years ago. A man over 70 was sick. He was admitted to the clinic for suicide. Major was being treated for depression, and he was telling me about the scenes of killing children with oak sticks, killing them with oak logs. In my professional ethics, I will not give details. Professor Mehmet Bekkinoğlu, who said, "I will not tell you the details." He made it clear that a confrontation should be made. We apologize for Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's statement in 2010-2011. We've all made a great deal of sense of it, and the people of my class have made a great deal of sense, but we regret to see that apology has not been fulfilled. We believe that an apology based on the actual reality of the massacre of that process should be made in the name of the state, not apology with half a mouth, but the concrete steps that must be taken regarding the subject of the lesson must be taken at once. As always, today, we want to say that it is the basic expectation of the people of my class to come here and support this motion, not in a defensive reflex, but in a perspective based on actually confronting its own history. We've prepared a law proposal on this matter, and it's obvious what's going to happen there. The immediate withdrawal of the name of Tunceli (Tunceli) meaning the bronze hand of the state, the return of the name of the school's name, the apology of the children, the descendants of our citizens who remained from the massacre, and the removal of the victims from our people, the giving of the graves of Seyit Reza and his friends to the Kurdish people, the opening of all archives concerning the lost children of Derim. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... and that the withdrawal of the HES dams over the nature of my class, the goalkeepers, the construction of the outposts, is a fundamental requirement, and I hope that our motion today will lead to the establishment of a research commission that will reveal all these facts in the House. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0035par0035	The first word against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal is Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0036par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the matter of my class has always been on our agenda, Turkey's agenda, which has often caused political polemics. What is it really about my class? What's his history? All of this needs to be seen and evaluated with an objective eye. My class is a Persian word, meaning the door, meaning the silver, meaning the silver, and my lesson includes some of our provinces, such as Erzincan, Bingol, Elazig. During the Ottoman period, the country was ruled in the form of a January style, and in particular as a government like this, it gained a feudal structure, and the state authority did not dry in Dersim for that reason. As a matter of fact, in the Ottoman era, it became an issue. As a matter of fact, there were talks in the province concerning the rehabilitation of the Kozanites, while Ahmet Cevdet Pasha made a proposal to be reformed in Zaytun, and in Dersim after the reform of the region. My lesson states that murderers from various parts of Asia Minor are needed to reform themselves as a place of refuge for bandit groups. It has been stated that these rogue groups, which are headed to Dersim, have been looting the environment and that there is no order in the region due to some tribes in the region that have joined them. However, after the completion of the rehabilitation of the Kozan region and the exile of the Kozanites to various places, there were riots in Rumeli, and the districts of Zaytun and Dersim were not reformed. Later, I mean, since 1876, 11 military operations have been organised in the region, Interior Minister Şükrü Kaya states, but there is no solution. The region remained in this state until World War I, when the Armenians sent to Aleppo, it was instructed not to make new transports from here, as two caravans were destroyed during the passage of the Erzurum Armenians from this region. My class preserved it during the national struggle, and even in 1920, the Akogiri revolt broke out. This time, in 1925, the Sheikh Sait rebelled after the rebellion was suppressed. A year later, in 1926, there was a rebellion at Kokomukı, both of which were under duress. The region has been known to have British and French influence since the 19th century. As a matter of fact, in 1935, the Italians brought together Kurdish and Armenian delegates in Aleppo of Syria, later in the cities of Qamish. This meeting in Aleppo was held at the home of Herak Paşakyan, Dr. Basmacian, the owner of the Asitane newspaper in Beirut, and from the Kurds of Antioch High School, Muallimi Memduh Selim, Cerablus Mebusu Mustafa Şahin, and the meeting took place at Basmacian's house at 1900 p.m. It went on until 00. Garo Sason, Hasan Agha, the son of Haco Agha, and Cemil Pashazade Kadri and Mehmet were found among the Kurds. Therefore, all French and Italians have direct influence in the region because, at this time, there is a great problem with the French about whether Antioch should join Turkey or not. In fact, in late 1936, during the days of Hatay's independence, the French contacted Seyit Reza through Izzettin, causing unrest in Dersim. Izzettin brought instructions to Seyit Reza, a French secret service in Syria for a rebellion in March 1937, and was largely involved in the events of my class. In 1925, the riots of Rachkotan and Raman, a continuation of Sheikh Sait Mutiny, were also provoked by the British. Britain's embassy officials in Turkey have been closely monitoring the 1937 Tucson Rebellion, reporting the developments to British Foreign Affairs. At the close of World War II, European states trying to build power centers in the Middle East have carefully followed the position of Turkey's Hatay and Lesson. The Russians are involved in this. The most important rebellion the Russians organized in the district of Dersim was in 1916, but they were also withdrawn from the region under the influence of the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution. Syed Reza, who testified in the court of the 37-38 Class Rebellion, stated in his interrogation that Russian staff officers were involved in the riot and that the Russians were sending weapons and ammunition. Because of the Armenians who remained in the region during World War I, the agreement between Armenian and Kurdish leaders was also seen to have been made in late 1919. As a matter of fact, Major Noel negotiated in the area, identifying a border between Armenia and Kurdistan. Later, with the activities of the Hoybun Society, they served in secret around the Armenian Bogos and Nuri Lesson in 1933. Just prior to the 1937 Dersim uprising, four unidentified Armenian Komitas entered Turkey from the Syrian border. They entered the Dersim area and engaged in activities, and immediately after that, riots broke out. The burning of Kahmut Bridge, the beginning of the rebellion, was also used by the Armenian-based Demirci Mustafa. Indeed, the publication of the police station near the bridge by the Dersim bandit and the martyrdom of 33 soldiers are the beginning of events in Dersim. After 33 soldiers were killed, on March 27, 1937, a bridge on the road to Tunceli-Erzincan was burned by Haydaran and Demenan tribes. In order to avoid contact with other Turkish troops, the area's phone lines have been cut off and the gendarmes have been ambushed. After the raid on Pahbuçı Station, Seyit Reza himself ordered rebel militias to print Sin Station. The 9th mobile gendarme battalion in the region has also been raided, and the military forces, who were not trained and were not prepared to fight the irregular rebel forces of their own citizens, have fallen into weakness in protecting themselves. Many military troops were raided and killed and wounded. The rebels destroyed the Mazgirt Bridge. Thus, as of this date, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has decided on these events and has ordered action. It is known that there were some inappropriate behaviors during the operation, but there is an image that defies the state in today's fashion. In response, the action was not intended for Alevis, nor for Turks, nor for Kurds, because people were found here. Events are a process of intimidation against groups in the region in the feudal structure and an effort to ensure state security. As for Syed Riza, she is not a true she-camel. If Seyit is not Kurdish or Turkish, he must be Arab. Dear lawmakers, of course, the issue requires much longer work. Now, after the end of the operation, a number of tribal groups -- including six tribes involved in this lesson riot -- were forced into places such as Keşan, Tekirdağ, Edirne, Cırklareli, Lüleburgaz, Çoran, Vize, Bandirma, Akhisar, Manisa, Aydın, Turgutlu, Salihli, Kula, Balıkesir, Izmir, Izmir, Payer. From these regions, 3,470 families of 347 families were transferred to Thrace. For those who left, the cost of wages and compensation was also spent 300,000 liras as a cost of seedling and even animals. Now, what needs to be done... is that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will not be able to investigate it. Therefore, the situation must be established by universities or various institutes, especially the General Staff archive, by reviewing the Turkish Grand National Assembly logs, French, British and Russian archives, if necessary. So, there's a set of... sir, there's no mention of an action against the Kurds, because there's no way that Alevis are Kurds in that area. So it turns out that the action here was committed against those who rebelled against the state. So, we're considering that I have a lot of documents about them, about who's cooperating with who. Therefore, the revelation of this issue is not of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but of those who will perform objective, scientific work in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it is the only way to get rid of the polemics. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0037par0056	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0038par0057	Was the massacre legitimate? So the poisonings in these caves are legitimate?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0036par0058	No, I'm not talking about them. If there are, I said they can be investigated.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0039par0059	Mr. President, may I make a correction regarding Mr. Hatibin's speech?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0040par0060	Let him sit down.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0041par0061	İhsan Sabri Çağlangil said, "We have drowned people like rats." He says.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0042par0062	Look, you have to see if they're applied, not what someone says.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0043par0063	Mr. President, Mr. Orator...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0044par0064	I'll take you over there. Go ahead and fix it. Reverends, only I'm a historian, too!
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0045par0067	You can't say anything without research. I mean, it's amazing, everything.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0044par0068	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0046par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. In this regard, the last thing we're going to do on this platform is go into the polemation with Yusuf Halaçoglu or mp, but I'd like to point out to the valued lawmakers that, in all the massacres in the world, the justifications that justify the massacre have been created by the systems. Look at all the massacres in history, and you'll surely find reasons to justify those massacres. Hitler also had a reason for slaughtering Jews. From Mussolini to Saddam Hussein, in all the massacres, you find these reasons. By giving reasons here, from seven to seventy, in the terms of the lecturers, 70 thousand, according to official figures -- Mr. Master knows very well -- we find the fact that a presentation on the murder of 12 to 18,000 children, older, younger, younger, female -- makes no sense, and we consider it a great misfortune on this council bench. There is no way in which you can identify the people of my class as murderers and thugs from outside. On the contrary, he himself is the murderer and the bandit who imposed this history on him. We want to make it very clear. As for Seyit Reza's cooperation with the Russians: Mr. Hodja, you're historians, there's no need to tell you anything, but during the Russian occupation, you had to know very well that Seyit Reza was fighting the Ottomans as an independent front against the Russians in exchange for money and weapons. In fact, the Russians who took Erzurum, Erzincan, and Erzincan, were defeated on the front of the lesson, and the rescue of Erzurum and Erzincan from the Russian occupation comes after that. The governor of Erzincan has been with us in religion and in honor of Seyit Reza, and in the historical documents of Erzincan Governor of the period. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0047par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0048par0078	Here you go. [[Continue historically from the AK PARTY rows.]] I think so, too. So let's get this done today. There's a voice in every head; let the historians speak.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0047par0082	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, here, look, I just said something, and I've seen that even he's misunderstood. I didn't refer to the Classmen as thugs, I said that they were thugs and murderers who went from different parts of Asia Minor. So...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0049par0083	He's legitimizing it, Mr. President. He's legitimizing it.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0047par0084	No, you can look at the transcripts, I said that. Because they're running into the area because it's in a feudal structure, and because the government can't afford it, they're raiding various places in that area, I told them that. On the other hand, did you really see the Russian documents when Syed Reza said that sheikh Sait had collaborated with the Russians? Look, I'm telling you, including Russian documents, which are all in the Historical Society, so you can look at it from there if you want. There's a record of who's working with whom. Go, look, you'll see there, so you'll also see which Kurdish tribes collaborated with the Russians during World War I, so you know that. Oh, look, what I'm saying is that in 1935, if a Kurdistan was to be built, I gave you some names about the fact that this region was under the Italian buffalo, and I gave you the names of the meetings. They've got reports, they've got reports.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0049par0086	Tell us what the governor of Erzincan said.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0047par0087	I'm telling you, I'm telling you, brother, there's only one way to stop you from going into the pollen about this or saying something like that. He does some serious research on this, institutions or historical institutions, someone, but he also sees all British, French, Italian and Russian documents. Because all reports are going to Italy. In fact, in the Greek newspapers, look at all the clippings from that date. It's even in the Greek papers that the dead aren't 12,000, 13,000 people, there's about 5,000 people.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0049par0088	He's horny! Shame on you, Hajji! 5,000 people... over 70,000 people have been slaughtered.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0050par0089	Even if one person dies... 5,000 people!
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0047par0090	Now, so, look, it's a matter of death. If you're fighting, if you're fighting -- I'm sorry -- you die or you kill, it's a need for war. But look, innocent people have been killed. It's been tried. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe it too, I do.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0051par0093	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0047par0094	They're done and done with the research they need to be done.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0052par0095	Have the council look into it, and the House will have a research commission.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0047par0096	But it's not the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that's going to do it, I'm telling you. Because there's nothing in Congress to understand or do methodology.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit03spe0053par0097	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0053par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Hüseyin Aygün, the Council of Tucson MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0054par0008	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This discussion took place in the same words in 2011, and Idris Baluken, at the time, made the evidence of this great massacre from the memory of Ihsan Sabri Çalayangil, from the Decision on May 4, 1937, from the reports of Inspector Hamdi Bey of Property in 1926. At the time, this Parliament voted, and the proposal to establish a research commission with the votes of the government rising from its ranks was rejected. After three years, this debate was reopened mainly because of the 77th anniversary of May 4, 1937 (May 4, 1937) last Sunday, a series of memorials and protests from Frankfurt to Cologne, from the Turkish Grand National Assembly to Menemen, and expectations of parliament worldwide. In the meantime, in Lach Creek, which is the subject of this motion, we now have to submit a memorial every year to the Parliament's information. Friends, it is unfortunate that Yusuf Halaçoglu, who led this discussion out of his way and, in fact, did not contribute to the enlightenment of the matter, although he was a scientist, is the former head of the Turkish Historical Association. Like, I think he talked about it in the 2011 debates. And in the meantime, this class issue has been on the agenda of the House several other times, and Yusuf Halaçoglu has said the same thing, but I think what he's doing here today is very unfortunate in terms of language. Here are 10,000 people, not 20,000 people, but 5,000 people who have died. For example, it would not suit a scientist at all. Because this is a country that only a month ago experienced how a 14-year-old child was sent off by 1.5 million people in Istanbul and how a death produced a great echo in the world. In this regard, even the death of one person is a terrible thing. We don't talk about numbers, bags of gold, animals that were destroyed when the earthquake hit, we talk about people, and I'm really surprised that someone who was President of the Turkish Historical Society -- the National Movement Party's Deputy Group President -- also used this language. At the same time, I think our teacher is preventing this issue from actually being enlightened by some of the things he didn't say in the old debates. I wonder if the entire National Movement Party feels that way. Because all of the information he reads from the text in front of our teacher refers to some chapters that were transferred from the book Riots in the Republic of Turkey, published by the Chief of Staff in 1972 by Reşat Hall. So it's been 50 years since the 1970s, about half a century; and over my class, the third quarter of a century has been overturned, the fourth quarter of a century and the century anniversary begins, and it's sad that the 1970s are still involved in this issue with their thesis, and that's how it explains it. The general staff's books, the curriculum in schools, are not unchanged, but they all have to be renewed according to current conditions. Our teacher, for example, said something else very strange today, that it was a riot with the Russians and the Russians who provoked it. He used to sing Armenians or something, because of the prejudices that existed in the Turkish community against the Armenians. Today, for example, he added Russians, which is very interesting. But he did something else strange today, Mr. Halaçoglu said there may have been some inappropriate behavior during this operation. I don't remember a sentence like that before. This must be translated into people killed, exiled, looted, victimized. I'm guessing that's a positive, but if that's the way it's thought, why shouldn't the National Movement Party, for example, support this motion, in order to show respect for the memories of the second generation, the third generation of those who were exiled and who were still victimised? Because we just want a parliamentary research commission. We don't have an opinion; there's a debate about the deaths of thousands, exiles, and one of the most terrifying events in the history of the Republic. For example, how reasonable is it to justify this with a book published by the Joint Chiefs fifty years ago? He's also the head of the Turkish Historical Society. I wish another friend had spoken from that front. Mr. Halaçoglu is finally saying: "Let the historians do it, let the universities do it. Let him do it well, let him do it, but we've done it before. I mean, there's a lot of documents, and I don't think it's necessary to open them up and blame one side. You didn't do it, you didn't do it; we did it, we didn't do it... But last June, in June 2013, in June 2013, the Department of Education, which was established in this Parliament two years ago -- established within the Will Commission -- we will submit the documents to the Department of History in Language History, where we will ask for a report. When you give us information in the form of it, I applied to the Faculty of Language and History-Geography to make it official, saying, "What are you doing about Derim??" I brought this document with me to answer Mr. Halaçoglu. On June 11, 2013, Dean Abdulkadir said to us, "We are not doing any work on class 1938." Therefore, let historians conduct this transport to historians. The proposal does not seem too sincere to me. For example, during those discussions, I applied to the Human Rights Commission within the Faculty of Political Sciences at Ankara University. I've submitted 13 names to the commission in the Turkish Grand National Assembly to make sense of these documents, so that you may benefit from them. Among them is Zazaca, Kurdish, Turkish works, folk storytellers, folk compilers, folklocists who have written and cried, so they're masters. The commission said that none of these would need to work, that he would work with the Faculty of Language and History-Geography. Here's the certificate of the Faculty of Language and History and Geography, there's no study. So, if we go the way our teacher suggested, I'm guessing that we're going to continue to do this, just as this Congress has been discussing and doing nothing for three years, and we're going to have half an apology left in the matter of my class, and the value of apologies will be reduced. So, I, for example, remember the suffering of the Armenians who lost their lives in the 99th year of the Prime Minister, and we repeat these condolences, and we share their sorrows. I don't find it meaningful when I think of their apology. Because nothing's done; it's just said that the agenda is changing in some way, it's shaped as a material for political propaganda, it serves the media like this, and three days later another agenda begins. The only thing the apology created in this country was a banner that was hung on the AKP province building in Tunisia, where I saw it before March 30th -- where I saw it very strange -- wrote: "We thank Mr. Prime Minister for the apology of my lesson. This is not a matter of AKP, CHP, MP, BDP, BDP; this is a matter of humanity and thousands lost their lives. Let's talk about this together, set up a research commission. Let me give Mr. Bauken a critique. He said, "I hope they don't come here and protest." Mr. Baluken, when you made that suggestion, we supported you, so let's set up a commission like this, let's discuss it, we're not against it. The 1930s, the 1938s, have no CHP, and the CHP is turning, and so are you. Are you, yourself, the Kurdish MP group you formed when you came to this parliament in the 1990s? I see you've changed a lot, too, because everyone's changing. But I'm really sorry for the change in Yusef Halaçoglu Hodja and the Russian provocation, the Armenian provocation, you know, the external provocation, the French explanations, and I think there should be a change in him, too. Our teacher always used to tell us to provoke the British, and a so-called letter to the British consulate in the name of Seyit Reza was always presented here as evidence, but these external enemies have expanded and diversified in today's debate in the Parliament. It's possible to see it as a barrier, a barrier, a barrier to the struggle to understand the sufferings of the class. I'd like to move a quote from Churchill, the only Englishman in the history of our classes that can unite: we can't fight with the past today. If we fight with the past today, we'll have dynamited the future. I know it's a duty to transport these here, as a deputy of a people who are alleged to have collaborated with the British. Let's discuss this matter in the House, if you want to solve it, let's solve it, and if we're not going to solve it, let's not get involved in these political issues, because there are dead people out there, my friends. I demand that you consider the dead a little, and make a decision with respect to those who lie beneath the ground. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0055par0022	Don't be disrespectful to those who lie in the ground. It's not proper for a congressman to be disrespectful to those who lie in the ground without a shroud.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0056par0023	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0057par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now, as we bring up a subject, of course, everyone is looking out their own window. Now, when you say 5,000 people have been killed, what are the resources that you stand for when you say 12,000, what are the resources that I stand for? I guess it's different, you say 12 grand, I say 5,000. Now, you think it's cool that 5,000 people are killed? It's not nice to kill 5,000 people, let alone 12,000. I mean, look, it's not about how many thousands of people were killed, it's about how some of the issues are caused by speculation. So, you call the exiles this much, and I say this much. Now, how do we decide that? Is it possible that a person there would know that? No way. I mean, it's impossible for even a exiled person to know because he only knows his territory. Even today, even if there was an incident in Ankara, you don't even hear it, only people in that area know, and they tell 50 different kinds of stories about it. That's history. So every resource you see needs to be suspicious and critical and put together some information on that subject from different fronts and go to a synth; that's history. Otherwise, what I'm saying is that it's an official source. You can't say it's nothing, yours is an ideological source. Now, you can't take it that way, I'm saying it for him. There's English, there's Italian, there's French, so there's Hatay. Can you tell me why the French are sending six machine guns? We need to make an assessment of all of this. But the people who were killed there, if they had a gun in their hands, they're dead, because he's killing them. Why don't you make a noise when 33 soldiers are being killed? You'll have to evaluate it all at once.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0058par0031	We want to investigate them all.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0057par0032	A man who rebeles against the state will surely be rewarded, no matter who he is. It doesn't matter if it's a government document or not. But there's one thing that's really civilians... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if innocent people were killed unofficially, there's no way anyone could approve of it.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0059par0036	Mr. President, if I may make a brief statement, he said there's been speculation.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0060par0037	I promise you, now, everybody's calling each other's names...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0059par0038	No, I won't answer.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0060par0039	I won't say anything. ...so one sentence is spoken over one word. But this is an interesting subject. So, I'm asking you, if you'll just give up your desire to say this last word -- I mean, I'm asking you personally -- everyone -- if you'll just give up... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0061par0044	Dear Hodja, let's say that the Italians sent five mitralizers to Derim, let's say that the external provocation, let's say that Seyit Reza, the letter of Seyit Reza, let's say that all of this is true from your window -- let's say that even in 1915, in the case of Armenians, the Armenians also protected the Armenians, even if the matter of the Hagues were to be debated, even if the issue of the Habitan and Erzincan and Erzurum was occupied by the Russians, then a number of innocent Armenians were to be able to meet and survive, let's say, in the secret archives of the state, all of them were to be very serious crimes, even if they were to debated, even as much as a blood, as a great, so that the network of blood could be carried out of the networks, so for several days. I mean, I see something very soulless, very cruel in your words. I know about you from the Human Rights Commission. I mean, even if it's an outside provocation, is it legitimate, can we accept that? I mean, to your conscience. This commission needs to be set up so we can talk about it. Look, even I'm not at liberty to discuss this matter, but those who suffer should talk about it. I can't even decide if I'm sorry, the class will decide. When Willy Brandt -- he's famous -- got down on his knees and apologized, no one expected an apology, he did it on his own. So, I don't know what a requested apology is worth, but we ask the House for an apology every year. Yeah, well, Congress should do it on its own. Wasn't this the Parliament who responded to 529 executions three weeks ago, to the executions in Egypt? Well, why wouldn't he take a step towards a terrible incident in the past against the children of this country, still up to date, still burning our hearts? We are taking steps against Egypt all the way. In this regard, what I expect from you, what I expect from your group, historically, even if what you say is true in science, take a step forward in this matter, and that's what I'm asking. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0062par0048	I don't know what your group is, but whatever group you belong to, talk about it. Give advice on whether you belong to the Republican People's Party or the HDP or whatever group you belong to.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0063par0049	I'll tell you, he's asked me a lot of questions...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0064par0050	I guess it'll be like this all night!
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0063par0051	Then don't ask questions.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0065par0052	If you two get together and make a deal...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0066par0053	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0063par0055	Not to agree with each other, but there's talk of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's bench, and it's on the books, and it's asking me questions. I mean, we can get along, we can always talk about it, we don't have a problem with that. But I'll tell you this: now, Mr. Prime Minister says there's no point in making this apology or condolences. Now, the person who makes a condolence on an event is bound to have to see the other side, the back face of the locket. I mean, do you have to see an event in its background, the way it looks, the way it looks? I mean, if you don't see this... then why did we fight in Çanakkale, brother? We used to say to the men, "Welcome, let's go all the way to Istanbul. You walk around Istanbul in Beyoglu, and we'll entertain you." Is that such nonsense possible?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0067par0057	Isn't there already a dawn ritual?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0063par0058	But if someone betrays the country, cooperates with them... I'll give you my name, still says Yusuf Halaçoglu hasn't changed. I'm not supposed to have information to change, I'm not supposed to see it. Only with someone's emotional narratives, if I'm going to tell them, then I can't be a scientist. I'm saying you can't describe me as ruthless. I feel sorry for every human being, and here they are Kurds, and here they are. I'm against being called these. They could be Kurds, they could be Turks, they could be Alevis, they could be Sunnis, I'd look at them as people, and I'd feel sorry for them all, and I'd be there for them all.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0068par0059	We'll look into it all anyway.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0063par0060	But, look, when you get up here and you say, well, here's the thing. When you say this, it turns out that you've already put the matter into the ideological stage. Don't do it. But you'll cooperate with the Italians, whatever, you'll go, you'll come from there, you'll riot, the government won't touch. What kind of nonsense is that? If it's wrong, but the government did it wrong, you'll have to answer for it, too.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0068par0061	He'll poison you like rats, you say? Shame, shame Hodja, shame! He's gonna poison you like rats, huh? Besides, there's no reason for any of this, there's no basis.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0069par0062	Did he do it?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0063par0063	See, I'm saying, look, we need to look into this and put it out there. And this is for the House... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not the investigator, it's the Clave. He'll be on a case that's been done. I'm telling you the document.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0069par0066	Teacher, what do your sources say about innocent people?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0063par0067	My sources are not about the innocent, they're about the case.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0069par0068	But he doesn't say anything about the innocent.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0070par0069	Then admit it, you'll accept it.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0063par0070	Now, behind something, I don't go after it, whether it's okay or not, I go after it.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0071par0071	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0072par0072	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0073par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0071par0074	Now, my friends, I'm going to listen to you, and I'm going to tell you something about this, look, the way I'm listening here, the way I see it, I'm asking you...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0072par0075	I'm just going to say something to get it to the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0071par0076	It's all in the transcripts, and it's true, so it doesn't look good.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0074par0077	Well, then I'll have to file a report, and I'll make a promise.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0071par0078	Now I'm gonna have both of you file the report, but let's cut this out.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0074par0079	I'll also ask for a word, Mr. President, after that.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0071par0080	Okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0075par0083	Mr. President, in the interest of creating a new polemic, let's repeat the purpose of bringing today's research motion here. Right now, we have no access to the current official archives or documents related to the class massacre. When you say, "Let historians do it." And when you have no access to these documents or archives, you fall into a position that has been recommending a hard work from the beginning. The parliamentary research commission will also have access to all documents and archives from that period. Besides, we'll be laying all the deaths at that time on the table. Thus, there is no ideological approach here or approach to making it political material. On the other hand, Mr. Hussein Aygun also expressed a criticism against us there. I'd like to say that I find Mr. Aygün's speech today very positive. I hope he gave a speech linking his own group. If so, I would take it very well, because even during the budget meeting in this chair, the deputy head of the Republican People's Party, who answered us about the massacre, Seyit Reza, and those who rebelled against the republic, had no reputation, no value. In this regard, if there is a change of attitude as a group at the Republican People's Party, we find it positive, and at the point of facing facts, we also reveal the necessary work together. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0076par0086	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0077par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0076par0088	Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0077par0089	Mr. President, can I make my statement from there?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0076par0090	So, now you're taking it without picking on it? I mean, look, it's an endless...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0077par0091	No. It's a big deal. Our teacher called it "sympathetic" and brought it up to another level, and I'm going to emphasize it to him in one sentence. And to inform you of the opinion of my party, Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0078par0094	Now, aside from teasing, I can't promise you anything from the stand. Get in the system, I'll give you a location. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0077par0098	Yusuf Halaçoglu Hodja said it was a riot, and he had not made any indication of that in his previous presentations. Just to inform the House that it has been revealed for three years, and at least 42,000 pages of documents that have reached the Parliamentary Commission have proved to be not a riot, but a single-minded military action. I want this on the record. Secondly, our purpose for trial of the 1938 massacre is not to condemn 1923, but to investigate this disaster that happened to the classmen, not to judge the republic, to discuss 1923. I want this on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0079par0102	Mr. President, I want a word on this.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0080par0103	I'll give you your position.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0081par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0080par0105	Now, I'll take care of this conversation from here, Mr. President, and then I'll talk to you. Yes, Mr. Faruk Bal.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0082par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, it is impossible to dry the clothes of the 1930s with the sun of 2014. So from the point of view of 2014, the view of the 1930s and the riots at that time differed. At that time, the spirit of Halasharan Zabitan, who created a young state from the ashes of the Ottoman Empire, knows how the Ottomans collapsed, how the Ottomans were destroyed, the living witness. Macedonia knows what riots exist, what countries support it. He knows that in Serbia, Montenegro, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Greece, some of whom have provoked riots, and that the blood of the children has been spilled out. In North Africa, the forces of Halaskaran Zabitan know how Ottoman lands were sold. He knows how riots were committed in the Arabian Peninsula, and he finally went home to the village, where a handful of children were gathered and created the spirit of a Kuvacimilli.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0080par0111	Mr. Altay, you've entered the system. Do you want to talk about bullying or your place?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0082par0112	The people who created this are the military bureaucracy of the Ottomans, as we call them. As this established republic's border with Iraq is drawn, while the border with Syria is drawn, when the Kerkuk-Musul oils are brought up, as the foreign forces that brought down the Ottomans are acting, it is a fact that they encourage such riots in the southeast of Turkey. In such a case, the person who lost his life would have to face the consequences if it was a rebellion against the state, against the young Republic of Turkey, which was established. The answer to rebellion is conflict, and people from both sides have lost their lives. But as Mr. Halaçoglu put it...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0080par0113	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0083par0114	His point of view is so wrong, it's so lame.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0084par0115	You're saying it's good. You're saying it's good?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0116	How rude, Mr. President, you're telling me it's a good thing from here. He's saying it's a good thing!
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0084par0117	Don't say that, dear. What does that mean? You're legitimizing it.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0118	I'm not saying it's good. If there's a rebellion in this rebellion...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0086par0119	Now, look, you've been talking for at least four minutes.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0120	...that the person who fought against the government with a gun will face riot conditions.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0087par0121	It's rude of you!
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0122	The government's soldiers are dead, and on the other hand...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0088par0123	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0089par0124	Before and before the Liberation War, the only people who had claimed the Turks before the end of the Ottoman Empire were the Kurdish people. He'd never hit you in the back for that. The rebels have all taken their own independence.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0125	What I'm trying to say is...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0088par0126	Thank you, Mr. Faruk Bal.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0127	No, sir, I'm not done, just a second... Look...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0090par0128	Mr. President, the deadline is...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0088par0129	Look, you guys are talking amongst yourselves. I promised you we'd talk.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0130	Let me finish a sentence.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0088par0131	You've been talking for four minutes.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0091par0132	But let him tell the truth.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0133	Let me finish a sentence.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0088par0134	Then complete it, please. I'm in a very difficult situation, for her.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0135	They're misunderstanding, sir. If I don't finish one sentence, it'll be misunderstood.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0088par0136	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0085par0137	As Mr. Halaçoglu put it, in the terms of 1930, such a reflex may have caused unwanted events. It's not here, it's not the Parliament; it's the universities and scientists who are going to study the historical archives that are going to investigate them scientifically. Here, we are not a group happy that people died unexpectedly or unintended as a party; rather, we are a sad community for them as well.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0088par0138	Thank you. Mr. Altay, there was an assessment of your group by Mr. Bauken. So if you want a word, I'll give you my word on the stand.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0092par0140	It's just a quick thing...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0088par0141	Then let's get you out of your...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0092par0142	That'll do, yeah.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0088par0143	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0092par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't remember what Mr. Baluken had just said, what he said about the CHP's deputy leader.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0093par0147	It's not a bet, it's what we've all heard, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0092par0148	Yeah, I don't know, but...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0094par0149	It's in the House transcripts, and we found it positive that it came to this.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0092par0150	... It could have been an overstated statement.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0094par0151	Your claim is positive.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0092par0152	However, I would like to say that the speech of our MP, referring to the speech of the public defender, is the opinion of the CHP Group? I don't find a trial in the form of a right one at a time. The congressman is free. From our point of view, all of our MPs are free to say what they think, but I will sign under the speech of my congressman on this stand as Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group. The Republican People's Party's understanding of the 1937-1938 events has been the opening of archives, documents, documents, whatever. If historians, if not or are not in a position to disagree, there is no harm if the Assembly examines the matter. It's not a job and a process to fear the history of the Republic of Turkey, but it's certainly not easy to accept what happened in Dersim. It's sad, it's so painful, it's what everyone wishes it hadn't happened. It's what they say, whether it's rebellion or not. People also have the freedom to rebel, but the government has an obligation to be compassionate. That's our point of view.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0095par0154	Rebellion is not freedom.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0092par0155	Sir, in the Travel Park, people are rioting, should they have killed them? They've already killed six people, that's your understanding? That is our understanding, by the will of the General Assembly and our great nation. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0096par0158	Sir, rebellion is not freedom.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0097par0159	I want to make a point, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0098par0160	You will kill the rebel.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0097par0161	If they go to the Republic archives today, our friends...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0099par0162	There is rebellion on every ground against injustice.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0097par0163	I repeat, if they enter the republic's archives, the republic's archives have been stripped of its privacy. They can see all the documents concerning Dersim. Let them go and investigate.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0100par0164	Where is Syed Reza's tomb?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0097par0165	Go check it out.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0100par0166	We're going to look into it, there's no access.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0101par0170	The last word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Mr. Hamza Mountain, MP of İzmir. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0102par0173	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute all of you with love. First of all, as our group has not just taken into account the issue of Mother's Day for our short speech, I celebrate the Mother's Day of all mothers on Sunday, and ask God's mercy to all our citizens who died in class from 1937-1938. Everyone knows what happened in the year 1937-1938 in Dersim. Even today, the number of people who lost their lives in the class events is still unknown. According to estimated figures, thousands of people, women and children are slaughtered, nests are broken down, thousands of people are emigrated west, thousands of children are left without family, adopted, and given to other families as servants. This issue, which is a subject in Turkey's taboos and unspoken, -- thank God -- began to be discussed with the AK PARTI government. On 23 November 2011, our prime minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, used the following statements at our party's presidential meeting: "If there is an apology on behalf of the state and there is a literature like this, I apologize and I apologize. This speech is the clearest indication of a new era in Turkey. During this period, Turkey began to face all its facts one by one. The message of condolence over the past few weeks regarding the 1915 events is also a clear indication. Today, in Turkey, all sorts of problems in the past can be discussed, spoken, and discussed. I'd like to briefly talk about a few documents that our Prime Minister has already explained and what happened at the time. In our culture, there's a very meaningful saying:...... x) Yes, it's good to repeat because this nation has not forgotten and will not forget the atrocities of a single party. A law is issued in 1935, and the law is called the Law on the Government of the Tunceli Province. The first article of the law states: "The governor and commander are elected as governors and commanders in the ranks of the country of Tunceli, to remain in contact with the army and to maintain the integrity of his rank. " After that, this governor and commander are given very interesting rights in the law. For example, if the governor and the commander need to, their families can move from place to place. For example, if death sentences are not required by the governor and the commander, they will be executed immediately. For example, there is no need to appeal the verdicts made in criminal courts, such as what happened in Egypt today. There are preparations followed by this law, and in 1937, 1938, and 1939, there is unfortunately a great drama going on in Dersim. Everything that moves in Dersim, children, women, is being slaughtered by air, land cannons, even gas bombs. During the course events, Mohsin Batur, who was a soldier there, uses the same expression in his memory: "One day the order came. We've moved on. From there, we moved to Pertek, the first stop. I served in my class about two months ago. I apologize to my readers. I refuse to tell you my memories of these days. Master Necip Fazil states that the disaster in Dersim had no precedent in history. The two children who called their father and said they wanted to go to him are being bayoneted by the Hozat Sub-Makamam, unfortunately sent to their father's place. A person who says that he is unrelated to the teachers and the villagers is being pushed into the flames by planks and smoked in front of him. One village people are shot first, then burned on wheat stalks. The master describes the tragedy in these lines: ▪ The people of Mazgirt's nahimek are being slaughtered. One of the merciful took about 20 children from one to 10 years old and hid them in a stream. It's all over the news. The children are ordered to be killed, but there is no one to carry out this order. Even the meanest of hearts express that they can't point a gun at innocents like this without defense. Finally, there's a black-faced man and the work of 20 innocents waiting in a stream, trembling. Some have seen the water flow red from the blood. The story of Syed Reza, one of the biggest underdogs in the class case, is another heartbreaker. In an interview, Malatya Police Director Ihsan Sabri Çağlangil said: "We have asked for your last word. I have 40 lira. You will give it to my son." That's when Nut Hafiz was hanging. The rope broke twice when I was hanging it. I blocked the car so Seyit Reza wouldn't see it. Nut Hafiz's execution is over. We've uncovered Seyit Reza. It was cold, and there was no one around, but Seyit Reza addressed silence and space as if it were full of people: his son Kerbalayah. It's a mistake. It's shameful, it's cruel, it's murder. Yes, my dear friends, thousands of unknown, predicted people, women and children are being slaughtered, homes are being destroyed, thousands of people are being migrated west, thousands of girls are being given up for adoption. Another document dated August 8, 1939, which was sent to the High Office of the High Council of the Gendarme Public Command, which gives the balance sheet for the intervention in Dersim. It is reported that the raids will continue until the final outcome. There's a ruler on the side, the figures of the dead, the living, the surrenders. A total of 13.806 people were killed in 1936, 1937, 1938, 1939. The signature under the document is Faik Öztrak, Deputy Interior Minister. In a decree dated 23 December 1938 -- about a month after the death of Ataturk (Ataturk) -- Ismet Inönü President, Celal Bayar Prime Minister -- it is stated that 12 thousand people who were ordered to transfer from Tunceli (Tunceli) to Garba were transferred to their destinations and carried out their residences, were also referred to him at a meeting of the same estates, including the 514 people who were found in the mountains and caves and in the winter, and the other people who had been assigned to the locations of the municipality. Another document contains a report of cleanup and surveillance operations in Sason (Sason) right after the class operations. The documents that I have just expressed reveal the logic and mentality of the one-party period, which is Turkey, unfortunately very clearly. Therefore, the approach to Dersim events is one of the best indicators of the difference between old Turkey and new Turkey. There is a lot of difference between the old Turkey and the new Turkey, but unfortunately there are some things that haven't changed. For example, the Republican People's Party: We're looking at the former CHP, there's a CHP that doesn't mind the sufferings of Dersim. We're looking at the new CHP, and we're seeing a CHP that's not bothered by the sufferings of both Dersim, Syria, and Egypt. I'd like to read from here to you the speech of a Republican People's Party MP speaking from this bench in 2009: no one come out and cry. Let's make a deal with these Greeks. Did he say? Didn't the mothers cry in the Sheikh Said rebellion? Didn't moms cry during my class riot? Didn't the mothers cry in Cyprus? Did only one person come out in Turkey and stop this struggle so the mothers don't cry? Did she say that? This is the speech of the Republican People's Party MP in 2009. Look, it's what CHP is in 1937, it's what it is in 2009, it's what it is in 2004. In fact, this new CHP has moved one step ahead of the former CHP, not only has its sufferings, massacres, but its advocacy of violence, slaughter wherever in the world. The Syrian policy followed by CHP today is also due to CHP's failure to give up its past habits.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0103par0187	Oh, we're sending the guns to Syria, the CHP is sending the guns! Tell me who is sending the weapons to Syria. It's like we're sending guns!
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0102par0188	I find that the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal for these painful events in 1937-1938 -- its name is BDP, its new name is HDP, and for the first time by the Constitutional Court -- has to change its name, not by closing the party, but by the political struggle -- makes sense, I find true...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0103par0189	Who sends the weapons to Syria?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0104par0190	BDP is alive, alive. BDP's not closed, it's a roof party. You guys don't know anything about partying. BDP hasn't been shut down, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0102par0191	...but I salute you with respect, with love, with love, with the thought that the House Research Commission will not be useful.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0104par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0105par0194	Not the last sentence, the last sentence.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0106par0195	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0107par0196	How did he survive so many years to this poor country?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0108par0197	He didn't say anything bad.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0109par0198	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0110par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. Our party, of course. [[Noises]] Mr. President, this isn't happening.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0111par0205	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0110par0206	As my congressman was talking -- I was able to get to the last part, but -- you know, like all his other friends did, you know, when the ex-con trader went bankrupt, he'd go through the old books...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0112par0207	We're not bankrupt, you're bankrupt. You don't do good accounting, do you?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0110par0208	...this has become a general habit of AKP people. I'm honored and honored by the history of the Republican People's Party, and I'm proud and proud to be part of such a party. [[Applause from CHP rows]] However, when you say the Syrian policy of the People's Party of the Republic, the Republican People's Party has a perspective on Syria. We have a very general rule about foreign policy: peace in the home, peace in the world.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0113par0211	Peace even if it's cruel.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0110par0212	But we don't have a policy of exporting terrorists to neighbouring countries, supplying weapons to terrorist organizations there, camping in Turkey, training guerrillas, putting bombs on them and sending them to other countries.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0114par0213	How easy it is to say that, how easy it is to slander.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0115par0214	Why bother? What just happened?
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0110par0215	Yes, that's what we think about Syria.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0114par0216	Be responsible!
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0110par0217	There is a plague in the blood that flows in Syria. The Syrian policy of the Republican People's Party is clear. We have a policy not to interfere in the internal affairs of neighbouring countries and other countries of the world, which will continue to exist after that, but we have no policy of exporting terror and terrorists to neighbouring countries, which is your government's policy.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0116par0220	People...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0117par0221	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0116par0222	I'll vote...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0118par0223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0116par0224	I promise to vote for God's sake because you don't know how you talk. I submit to your votes the People's Democratic Party Group has proposed...
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0119par0228	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit04spe0116par0229	You want roll call, over. Mr. Altay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Öğütçı, Mr. Özgükcı, Mr. Özkoç, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Köse, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Değermendere, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özgündündüz. Yeah, I'll start roll call, give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-05-08sit05spe0116par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Since the second round of roll call was not enough, on Tuesday (May 13th 2014), it is 15 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of the draft and proposals, according to oral question motions. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Closing Time: 16. 57 (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip.
